ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e78	The representative Karin S. Woldseth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Arild Stokkan-Grande on parental leave from 29 May to 7 June from the representative of Mr Jørund Rytman on care leave from 29 May to 11 June from the Socialist Group on sick leave for Ms Karin Andersen from 29 May until 11 June until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the County of Buskerud: Ida Marie HolenFor Hedmark County: Frøydis Elisabeth SundFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Bård Langsåvold
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e126	Ida Marie Holen, Frøydis Elisabeth Sund and Bård Langsävold are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e134	The representative Peter N. Myhre will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e137	I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Karin S. Woldseth, Tone Liljeroth and myself on changes in the state funding of aid and emergency aid organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e142	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e158	Let me first be sorry that this post is going to be too far, but I think that is the basis for that anyway. On 20 March 2012, the Minister of Foreign Affairs sent a letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee on the basis of a notice published on the same day concerning the procedure for the award of grants for the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics in 2008. In his letter, the Minister of Foreign Affairs made it clear that he would send his own statement to the Committee on the matter in the light of the Committee's examination of the matter concerning the administration of grants by the departments. On 17 April, the Control and Constitutional Committee opened its own case on the treatment of grants by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Centres for North Sea Logistics. More than that, the Committee does not, in essence, agree. There has been a somewhat unusual situation in our committee, that there is a clear distinction between the Workers' Party, which results from the two other government parties on the one hand, and the opposition parties on the other. In the following I will therefore mainly express the view of the Progress Party in the matter, which is largely consistent with the comments of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, and to which the Christian People's Party has partly joined. I assume that the Labour Party and the other two government parties themselves will express their views on the matter later in the debate. I want to start with the quick start, because I am very concerned that the Control and Constitution Committee should not be an arena for political games and shadow boxing, at least not more than strictly necessary. It all started with the Committee initiating studies on grants for the so-called Jente defence provided by the then State Council of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, Audun Lysbakken. During a difficult process, SV chose to stand in the storm, and they maintained the control perspective in an excellent way, despite the fact that it was their invading leader who was subjected to criticism and investigation. I am quite impressed by the prudence and perseverance shown by SV, SV's new leader and SV's representative in the committee. It is a definite example of follow-up, and other parties obviously have a lot to learn from SV's cleanliness if they want to preserve the credibility of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. In the matter we are debating today, there has been a kind of struggle about reality, or more specifically a struggle to govern people's perception of reality. It is this struggle that, in my view, has helped to put a sort of shadow on the matter of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The distance in reality between the Working Party on the one hand and the opposition parties on the other is very large. Therefore, it is important that those who are concerned about this matter make use of the possibility of modern technology today to check our respective perceptions of reality by visiting the Committee's websites. There is all the supporting material — including the stenographic record of the audit hearing, which we have also held in the case. It was in its time Dagbladet who started writing about the grant from BLD to Jenteförderet, and it was Dagbladet who also dug out, and who wrote the first time on 20 March about the matter that we have today for treatment. The claims made in Dagbladet were mainly about Felix Tschudi, who is the Managing Director of the Chudi Shipping Company, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre being friends. At the same time, it turned out that Chudi had given $6 million. kr to the establishment of a centre for north-eastern logistics, and that the friend Gahr Støre had allocated as much money to the U.D. budget for the establishment of the centre, organised as a foundation. The foundation then had Felix Chudi as chairman, and the work in the foundation was of such a nature that it appeared as if it had been supported under the business interests of Chudi in the northern regions. For the sake of order, I think it is important to stress that there is no reason to criticize neither Felix Tschudi nor the Shipowners' Association for their work on the establishment of the Centres for Northern Territory Logistics. What has been discussed by the Committee is exclusively a matter for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. On the same day as Dagbladet wrote about the grant, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre wrote to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to assure us that he would submit his own statement and all relevant documentation in the grant case. It was neat and wise by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Committee's starting point was that this matter should be dealt with together with the other grant schemes, on which the Committee had already opened a case. The Labour Party has written in the recommendation that the reason they proposed to open a separate case about this assignment was my statements to the media about the matter. It is a relatively unusual basis to open a control case on, and based on a very thin and small factual basis. Both of my opinions in the case – which fell while the case was being discussed in the committee – referred to circumstances that must be said to be completely uncontroversial. First of all, I said that it seemed clear that the Foreign Minister should have his stability assessed before he dealt with the application for money support, and second, I said that it was absolutely doubtful that it was Felix Chudi who initiated the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics. The first thing I got was support from an almost collective legal profession. The second was confirmed in the application to the U.D. and also confirmed in the verification hearing itself. Other members of the Committee had previously expressed themselves much stronger, without any one in the position to raise an eye. One may therefore wonder at the alleged background that this was a matter that Martin Kolberg wanted to raise, so that he had his own hearing of control, where, in my opinion, new facts emerged that weakened the foreign minister's case, and where he gets this debate today entirely alone, instead of as one of 17 relevant councils. When the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received an application from the Federation of Shipowners for grants for the establishment of Centres for North Sea Logistics, the following was stated in the application: ‘Through its commitment to Global Maritime Knowledge Hub, the Tschudi Shipping Company has taken the initiative to develop a project to develop knowledge of logistics, industrial development and business opportunities in the North. The Northern Region Centre of the University of Bodø and BI Shipping are the academic partners of the Chudi Shipping Company in the initial phase of the project.» After the financial support was granted, it is now clear that Tschudi Shipping Company was the only founder of the foundation at the time of its creation, and the company also contributed the entire capital of the foundation. The question is whether the information contained in the application should have the Foreign Minister assess his own stability before he decided to allocate 6 million. kr to the establishment of the centre. On the question of whether he and Chudi were friends, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said to Dagbladet on 20 March: "It's always degrees of it, but we're old, well-known." It became clear that the friendship between Gahr Støre and Chudi was considerably closer than an acquaintance. In Gahr Støre's presentation to the Committee and during the verification hearing on 7 May, Gahr Støre has also said that he and Chudi are friends, but not close friends. I have noticed that the foreign minister is also the friend of the Crown Prince couple – which is very pleasant. In the hearing, the foreign minister said that the friendship with the Crown Prince couple was no closer than the friendship with Felix Tschudi. Nevertheless, the Foreign Minister had an independent assessment of his own stability in relation to the Crown Prince Couple and his participation in the adoption of the agreement. The Ministry of Justice’s Legal Department’s assessment of the sustainability is interesting in this respect. The conclusion from the law department was, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘We assume that the foreign minister’s friendship with the Crown Prince couple is in a border country for what could initially lead to instability.’ The reason why this is interesting is, of course, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was familiar with the Law Department's conclusion in this case when he dealt with the application for support to the Chudi-initiated Centre for Northern Territory Logistics. It was clear from the start that Felix Tschudi would have a very central role in the process and project and in the centre after its creation. In retrospect, it has also become clear that Ernst & Young believes that it cannot be excluded that the Tschudi Shipping Company takes special advantage of the work with the foundation. One of the key prerequisites for trust in government is that those who manage power on our behalf are very aware that decisions taken are made on the basis of matters and policies – not friendship, knowledge or money. But more importantly, we common, mortals have that trust. It is essentially the whole purpose of the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Administrative Act, where, among other things: the need to take account of other specific circumstances which may weaken the confidence of the decision-maker. The action of a minister must therefore be so reliable that most citizens believe that confidence is not weakened. Then, of course, there is a tight legal framework as to when instability occurs. Therefore, the political discretion exercised must be exercised in such a way as to seek advice in which circumstances such as these may cause doubt. I record – with some satisfaction – that the Foreign Minister now says that he will be helped to assess his stability if a project or an application for financial support arises again for initiatives where his friends have a central role. It's good, but it's a shame the confession's coming so late. Gahr Støre has also created uncertainty as to whether he actually assessed his stability in the case of Chudi in practice, when the application was examined in 2008. On March 20, Gahr Støre said to Dagbladet: ‘This case was not of such a nature that I found the need to assess my stability in relation to my acquaintance with Felix Tschudi.’ That same day, Gahr said Big to New Year 18: ‘My point is that no money has gone to anyone I know. Once I've assessed the extent of this, it's in relation to a matter where there's going to be money. Who's that in relation to? Yes, it is the Norwegian Shipowners' Federation. There is a professional organisation that we can deal with over time, and a partner for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in line with many others." From these opinions it is quite clear that Gahr Støre did not assess its viability specifically in relation to Tschudi at the 2008 hearing. In the hearing, however, the Foreign Minister presented completely different, and new, information: ‘I assessed my relationship with Felix Tschudi in 2008 when the issue of the establishment of the Centre became relevant.’ [[...]] This is why the opposition parties consider it difficult to clarify what is the actual situation at this point. The deviation between the foreign minister's specific statements to the media on 20 March and those that fell in the hearing is simply too big. Another important issue in this case has been who took the initiative to set up the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics. In my opinion, there have been quite serious attempts on the part of the Workers' Party to influence people's perception of reality. That's why I want to try to clean this up a little bit. There is no doubt that the dialogue between the Chudi Shipping Company and the Shipowners' Association came about after the Shipowners' Association contacted Felix Tschudi. The goal of the contact was to get the Chudi Shipping Company to pay for professors through Global Maritime Knowledge Hub. The Chudi Shipping Company then decided that they would contribute $6 million. kr to pay for professorates related to research in the northern regions. So far, I think we're quite in agreement. But since then, Tschudi Shipping Company was in doubt that such cooperation would be sufficient to achieve the breadth that Felix Tschudi thought was important for the cooperation project he wanted. That is why Felix Tschudi took the initiative to set up a separate centre for north-eastern logistics instead of becoming a one-sided payment for professors. That initiative was the Shipowner's Association first opposed, but they agreed along the way. It was the initiative of Chudi on the establishment of the Centres for Northern Territory Logistics that made it possible to apply to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for money. And it's the Foreign Minister's examination of this application the Control and Constitutional Committee has opened up a case. There is therefore no disagreement that the initiative of Mr Tschudi came after contacts had been established between the Federation of Shipowners and other actors, on the initiative of the Federation of Shipowners. However, this matter concerns the examination by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the application for support for the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics and his ability to assess his own stability when allocating funds to a project initiated by his friend Felix Tschudi. The matter is not about who first called who to get some kind of research collaboration, nor about when it was decided that the Tschudi Shipping Company decided to use money in this collaboration. Chudi's initiative, like everything else in the world, became part of a larger context. However, in its presentation to the Committee entitled ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’s grant for the launch of a Northern Territory Logistics Centre’, Gahr Støre wrote the following: ‘But the review confirms that this concrete initiative came from the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association and academic institutions such as the College of Bodø and BI, and that Tschudi Shipping Company, at the invitation of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association, took part in the follow-up to the initiative.’ In the hearing, however, the Foreign Minister acknowledged that the initiative for the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics, which is the subject of this case, was taken by Chudi. After I had tried in several questions to get a clear answer to this, the Minister for Foreign Affairs answered the following challenge from me: «And then we agree that it was Tschudi Shipping Company that took the initiative for what you grant money to do?» And the Foreign Minister said: ‘Yes, as both the Chudi and the Shipowners’ Association have explained here earlier today; [[...]] That is why today we can clearly see that it was Felix Tschudi who took the initiative to set up the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics. At this point, there is a certain distance between Gahr Støre's presentation to the Committee and what was found in the hearing. I find that the Workers' Party has tried to shift the time of the initiative to when the Shipowners' Association first contacted Tschudi. However, there are two different initiatives here. It is also worth noting that the case proposed by other Vice-Presidents Martin Kolberg and the Workers' Party for their own consideration in the Committee is ‘the treatment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of grants to the Centres for Northern Territory Logistics’. Money flow has also been called into question in relation to the question of stability. On March 20, the Foreign Minister tried to explain how far Chad was from this project. He said to Dagsnytt 18, as quoted earlier, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «When I have assessed the stability, it is in relation to a matter where money is to be allocated. Who's that in relation to? Yes, it is the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association.’ The fact is, however, that one penny was never transferred to the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation. It was never the intention either. It was transferred 4.5 million. kr to the College of Bodø before it was established, because it had no account number, and because the College presided over the administration of this initiative. In 2011, there was 1.5 million. kr transferred directly to the foundation, after a detour via the University of Bodø, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had used the wrong account number. After I have now reviewed what I and the Progress Party, and most of the opposition, believe are facts in the matter, it is time for some conclusions. Since it is clear that the Tschudi Shipping Company is the initiator of the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics, the main question is whether the Council of State should assess its viability in advance of the proceedings. In the meantime, a number of prominent lawyers have said that it is clear that the connection between Gahr Støre and Chudi is of such a nature that he should assess his viability before he took the matter to the board. We are familiar with the Law Department's assessment of Gahr Støre's stability in relation to the Crown Prince Couple, where there was doubt. In such an image, it is strange that the Foreign Minister himself does not think that it can create a stability challenge when applying for money for a project where one of his friends has a very central role. The Minister of Foreign Affairs could himself contribute to a clarification by asking for the subsequent sustainability assessment of the Law Department. It has been done three times before in relation to other government councils in this period of government. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has not wanted that. The lawyer’s firm Kvale, on behalf of the Dagbladet, concluded that Gahr Støre was inhabitable, based on the information available before Gahr Støre’s presentation to the Committee. The Progress Party believes, like the prominent lawyers who have commented on the matter, that it is clear that Gahr Støre's friendship with Chudi was of such a nature that Gahr Støre should ask the government for help in assessing the stability. I have great faith in the foreign minister's capacity for logical reasoning, but jus is difficult, even for lawyers. As politicians, we must remember that it is the people's confidence in the decisions we are going to make, which is crucial, not if we ourselves believe to be unaffected by friendship when decisions are made. That is also why we believe that this is the basis for the serious reaction we are proposing in the vote. A Dadelvotum is parliamentary in nature, and there are three out of four opposition parties behind it. The purpose is not to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs a scratch in the paint, although I see that someone claims it. The aim is to ensure that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and his colleagues in the Government are to know that at least three of the parties of the Great Britain believe in the seriousness of the problem and that it is a central feature of those who manage the confidence of the people to be able to carry out the necessary stability assessments in their actions. Politics is also difficult – even for politicians – but from time to time we all fail. It should be forgiveness to find for the most part, including in politics. But it's a prerequisite that one then's ability to recognize that there might be room for some improvement. With this, I address the proposal in the vote by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e275	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e280	It's true, as Anundsen said, that the core of the case is the question of who took the initiative, and who it was that sought. My claim is that Anundsen is trying to establish a political indistinct chain to justify its political position. I'll come back to it very thoroughly in my post. Now I need to ask Anundsen, as the rapporteur of the case and the chairman of the committee, why he chooses to ignore what was explained at the hearing by the Chief Executive Officer Sturla Henriksen of the Shipowners' Association, that it was the Shipowners' Association that took the initiative – which invited Chudi in. He says that Chudi took the initiative of the center, but it was part of the great development. The shipping company was also behind it. It was the Federation of Shipowners who applied to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for support, and it was on that basis that the Minister of Foreign Affairs handled it. Why does the representative consistently choose to ignore that truth?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e291	I think the representative of Kolberg has followed very poorly in my post. It may be that it got boring along the way here, but I went quite carefully through the whole that Kolberg is now demanding, and as he says I'm looking away from. I went through very carefully what was the beginning of this, who made the first contact with Chudi – which was the Shipowner’s Association – and I also went through the way to what this matter was about, namely the initiative that was indisputably taken by Felix Tschudi to set up the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics that we have to deal with. So it's directly wrong that I ignore the ‘truth’, as the representative Kolberg expresses it in the line. I said it at the latest in the post that was held a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e296	What's the matter here is that the representative Anundsen is twisting the truth. He selects a selection of quotations and puts them together in such a way that there is a different impression than the whole. It is quite obvious to all those who heard the hearing and who have seen the public debate, that the Federation of Shipowners has always supported this as a major project. It is attempted to narrow this down to the very formalistic link between the establishment of the Centre in order to be able to carry out such a political reasoning as Anundsen does. That's what we're criticizing. This is not a legal case, this is a political process. It is quite obvious that this is not done, as the representative said, in order not to harm the Council of States – no, just to do so. That is what is behind the aggression on the part of the government parties, both in the vote and probably later in this debate. I'd like to say once again that I'm going to give Anundsen another chance to comment on this, so that we can get the debate into its proper track.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e303	It was a little difficult to see what was Kolberg's question here, other than that he wanted a new comment. He'll be happy to. Of course, I totally disagree that I'm twisting the truth. I am dealing with the matter that Martin Kolberg suggested in the committee that we open. Martin Kolberg did not propose that we open a case about the shipping association's contact with Felix Tschudi and the Chudi Shipping Company to pay for professors. Martin Kolberg suggested that we open a case only on this center for north-eastern logistics. If Kolberg wanted the matter to be a different matter, I have the confidence in Kolberg and his experience that he had then suggested that the matter actually referred to something else. But what Kolberg suggested was exactly what I've been dealing with all the way, namely that we should have a case about the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics and the handling of that application by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That's why we're here today, not because something happened a few months in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e308	What the representative Anundsen now said, documents what I am saying. It's clear that it's hard for many to keep track of all the details associated with this. However, in the discussion in the Committee on the background to the hearing, the government parties explicitly stated that the matter had to be fully clarified. It was a little bit against Anundsen and the wishes of the opposition parties in the committee. We wanted to get this width all the time, precisely because we saw the need for the case to be put into a context. It is obvious, at least to me, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Minister's handling of the matter has just been justified in such a whole, which one, therefore, by the opposition parties – that is, by parts of the opposition – consistently chooses to side with. That's what's my concern, and it's not denied that Anundsen, neither in his post, in the comment, nor now in this line change with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e313	This just goes into the sequence of what I think is directly incorrect information from the Workers' Party. It is quite clear in the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs what the statement is about. So it's about their treatment of aid, grants, the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics. I understand that Martin Kolberg regrets that he has not opened a case about anything else. But then I expect him to be more accurate in the next round, so that he can open up a case about what he is actually looking for. If you look at what is the Committee's invitation to the hearing, you will see clearly there, with very specific questions, what we want answers to through that hearing. Of course, it's completely open to everyone to talk about something else, for example. Shipowners' association's first contact with Felix Tschudi and Chudi Shipping Company. But in my opinion, it is wrong to say that the matter is about it. It is about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' allocation of money to this initiative, and it was therefore the application from the Swedish Shipowners' Association that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was familiar with at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e318	The representative Anundsen had his strongest conclusion in his speech when he said that on this basis it was quite obvious that this matter was solely about the establishment of the centre. What was his reason for that? Well, there was a reference to the Council of State's response in the hearing, where the Council of State said, to questions from Anundsen: Yes, it is true that they were behind the establishment of the Centre, but in the way that the Federation of Shipowners and Chudi have now explained. To me it seemed quite obvious, after I had heard both the Shipowners' Association and the Chudi in the hearing. But it is the choice of the case rapporteur and the chairman of the committee to turn to a different understanding of what the Council of State has said, and what he himself obviously believes. This is how this matter is going on all the time. That's what I want to say, and that's what's behind us also creating our own case, which I'm going to come back to in my post in a moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e325	I think this line exchange is a pretty good illustration of what was the committee's problem in this discussion, because we're talking about two completely different things all the time. That is why it was important to me that I now made a good and thorough account of what the matter is actually about, and what I think some people have tried to get this case to be about. It is completely wrong when Martin Kolberg says that I use detached quotes from the hearing as a background for my claims. Then Martin Kolberg has to go back and read my post again, because there I use a number of quotes from a number of other contexts to document what the matter is about. So this is what Martin Kolberg proposed in the committee, to open up a case on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' treatment of grants for the establishment of centres for north-eastern logistics. That's what the Foreign Minister also writes about in the reply to the committee. I have to say that I don't think there's any danger that Martin Kolberg and I will agree, no matter how many line changes there will be on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e331	The President understands that we will no longer be able to make this change in line between the representatives of Kolberg and Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e334	The representative, Anundsen, said in his statement that since Felix Tschudi took the initiative in setting up the Centre, the question was whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs assessed his stability. Does that mean, if the idea of setting up the centre had not come from Chad, but for example. from the Shipowners' Association or from another team, and he had granted money, to which he said he was willing in advance, that the question of the foreign minister's viability had not existed?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e339	A question of viability persists. What is special about this matter is that the Swedish Shipping Association's application states quite explicitly, in a separate section, that it is Felix Tschudi and Chudi Shipping Company who is the initiator of this project. Then it is quite obvious that the Foreign Minister is familiar with the involvement of Chudi in this. And with the friendship that exists between these two, we think it's quite obvious that a stability assessment should be made. So the answer to that question is that what is absolutely clear in this matter is that the Foreign Minister was familiar with the central role of Chudi in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e346	If it's Chudi's contribution in terms of funds that would also trigger instability, it's very difficult to understand this insistence on narrowing the matter to focus on the idea of establishing a center, because then, according to Anundsen's now saying, the question of viability would also exist, even if you were to, for example, create a center. had gone further with the original plan to set up a professorship — or whether the idea of the centre had come from another team. Why, then, the narrow case, which Anundsen insists on all the time, to be concerned only with the establishment of the centre, and – as he said – because Chudi took the initiative? So the question is, was it assessed? What's the point of this intercept?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e351	Here I think there must be an obvious misunderstanding, because what we are dealing with is an application from the Swedish Shipowners' Association to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for money for a project initiated by Felix Tschudi and Tschudi Shipping Company. That is the question in the relationship it would be relevant for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to deal with this application and assess its stability. If Felix Tschudi would just pay $6 million. kr to this hub for professors, this would not have been at all a current issue. I believe that the representatives of the Labour Party in the Committee will be able to understand what this matter is about. They did so when they asked us to establish their own case concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' processing of this application from the Swedish Shipowners' Association. They did not ask us to go into other aspects of this matter. So I'm not the one that snuffs in the case, it's Martin Kolberg in the proposal in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e356	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e359	It is true, as the rapporteur said at the beginning of his speech, that in March the Control Committee sent letters to all the departments in which we asked for a review of the grant management in each department. The reason why an overall committee took that step was, of course, that it is important that taxpayers' money be managed in a way that does not violate law and regulation and that the allocation takes place on the basis of recognised criteria. Let me underline this. The Labour Party believes that the administration should operate without a spot. If we are to have sufficient support for the desire for a strong and good public sector as a means of achieving key policy objectives, we must have confidence that the money is always spent on what they are going to do. It has therefore been entirely in accordance with our wish that this review of how the Community funds are managed was started. This matter is, as has already been said, still under consideration, and we will come back to the autumn. Originally, the Committee was prepared to deal with this matter – that is, the major grant case – already in the summer, but the minority in the Committee, i.e. The party of progress and the Left, used its minority right to establish a public hearing around it, so that the matter is not really dealt with until the fall. The Committee has agreed throughout the period that unanimity in conclusions and necessary criticism of management is necessary and correct. There are many examples of this in this period, at the latest last week, where all parties agreed on the necessary criticism of the police's work against the crime of profit and the legal basis for what is called INFOFLYT. Tomorrow, there is a debate about Oslo University Hospital here in the Chamber – where there is also a lot of consensus. Today's case has its origin in the fact that Dagbladet on 20 March had a statement that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had given $6 million. kr in support of Centres for Northern Region Logistics. It was suddenly made up of the impression that everything was not as it was supposed to be with the grants from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – to say it carefully. As it was said to read, the Foreign Minister himself had made sure to assign 6 million to his good friend Felix Tschudi. kr of Community funds. No one can be particularly surprised that the Storting Control Committee was interested when it was informed, through Dagbladet in this case, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had allocated 6 million. kr to his friend, who was then described as a billionaire. That the committee received a letter from Gahr Støre saying that, as part of the department's review of the grant management, he would also explain the matter on which the Dagbladet had written, did not dampen the noise, but was a good and entirely correct initiative on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I stated that the Workers' Party and the Government's fraction actively believed that the matter had to be reviewed. It was clear to us that we had to get to the bottom of this matter. The speech by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 13 April did just that – the informed case in a good way. Government parties supported the opposition's desire to ask follow-up questions. But it turned out that this was not enough. Then I don't think ‘anything’ in relation to the debate that always goes, which is going to go, in public about matters that are of interest to many people. I am also not talking about it being wrong that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is being subjected to negative attention from the media and the public. What got the Labour Party and the other two government parties to take a step further was that the chairman of the Committee and the rapporteur of the case – who, on a proposal from me in this matter, was pre-proceeding the matter and began to draw conclusions on the question of stability and on the procedure in the media, without the matter being discussed in the committee. That's the background. That is why the Workers' Party and the other two government parties took the initiative to open the case as their own case, as it is called. It's alarming in itself. It is very rare, of course, that government parties actively open cases against their own state council. There are two reasons why we wanted transparency on the matter, and that it had to be properly disclosed. First of all, we couldn't live with the accusations of corruption-like conditions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We could not live with unfair proceedings and contact between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Felix Chudi. Secondly, we considered it very worrying that matters of this nature did not receive their specific treatment where they belong, in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Storting, but – as I said – that the political process only went into the media. The conclusions were apparently to be drawn in the autumn. Now I add something here that I had not written in advance, but I say it with the background of Anundsen's claims that I have opened a crazy case. It's a typical example of how the argument is reversed in this context. There was agreement in the committee that a case should be opened on the basis that I said, when we took the initiative – but only then. However, we had to put forward the wording that the whole width of the case should be taken, because the case rapporteur would not – precisely for the reason I am saying here. Then he is in a line exchange here in Stortinget and suggests that it is I who have not understood the meaning of the matter, and that I have suggested a narrow case. That's not true. It was the opposite that was the intention of the government parties, just to be able to shed light on this matter in a proper way. What happened here in the line exchange between me and Anundsen, is the most obvious example of what I'm saying, how they're constantly trying to sneak this in to create a narrow path to go on, so that they can get a reason for their political proposal. That's what it says. And I would say, in line with what the committee's chairman said, that in the government fraction and in the Workers' Party, we were, and are, of the opinion that if we play too much political games, it would undermine the legitimacy of the control committee and the control institute as such. That neither will nor can the Workers' Party be involved. We believe that the work of the Control Committee is very important and guarantees that there are no uncultures in the administration. That's why, in total, it was necessary to open the hearing to investigate whether the dramatic claims were in line with reality. So to the heart of the matter: Centers for North Region Logistics. No one has really asked questions about the money for this center was useful, although there have been many questions from the opposition's side about the professorship versus the center. The Centre was set up to develop new knowledge of logistics, industrial development and business opportunities in the northern regions and to contribute to the interaction between different knowledge environments from institutions in Norway and Russia, both in the academic and business spheres, to develop and disseminate new knowledge in transport and logistics – that is, to clarify the Centre’s tasks and purposes. The Chairman of the Committee and the Advocate-General Anundsen has been constantly engaged in investigating the matter with regard to who took the initiative to set up the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics. This, of course, is to justify its conclusion, as I have just said. But if the chairman of the committee had listened to him in his own hearing, he would have brought with him the whole story. The Managing Director Sturla Henriksen explained the context quite clearly. And I want to add: for my part, I have no reason to distrust the Chief Executive of the Federation in what he explained. It was the Shipowners' Association that invited and initiated the work, which invited Chudi Shipping into the project. After Tschudi Shipping had committed to contributing $6 million. It appeared to a professorate that, as has been said, Tschudi Shipping considered that a centre could be a better form of organisation to ensure cooperation with the various academic environments, since it wanted a multidisciplinary focus on the whole logistics chain, with research environments in the south and north, in Norway and in Russia. Sturla Henriksen stated in the hearing: ‘The Shipowners’ Association agreed to this change and so that cooperation and co-financing between industry and administrations could be established here in a way that could provide additional strength to a knowledge development that is important for both parties. On this basis’ – I say it again: On this basis – ‘the Swedish Shipowners’ Association sent an application to the U.D. for seed-based products for the start-up of the Centre.’ Since then, the Shipowners’ Association has been actively involved in the project through governance representation and has also contributed financially to further activities. In a recent evaluation of the various projects in the knowledge hub, the Centres for Northern Region Logistics are characterised as a successful project that has provided important insight. So, the shipping company invited Chudi to contribute. The Shipowners' Association agreed that a centre was set up instead of a professorate. The shipping company applied for seedlings on this basis and has participated since. This explains the whole thing. Is there any reason to believe that Henriksen is not telling the truth about the intentions of the Federation of Shipowners? Isn't Felix Tschudi talking? I don't mean they don't. The opposition doesn't think so, but they have had to ignore Henriksen's and Chudi's explanations and their context in order to be able to construct a case where the Foreign Minister should have assessed his stability. Also, everything Felix Tschudi said in the hearing, underpins Sturla Henriksen's review of the case. I refer here to the printed attachment to the setting. The representative of the Christian People's Party, Mr Becquerad, will probably explain his views later in this debate. I, from my point of view, just want to point out here that the Christian People's Party does not share part of the understanding and emphasis of the other opposition. Let me go a little deeper into the evaluation Henriksen referred to during the hearing. This evaluation report further points out that there were two important challenges facing the establishment of the Centre in 2008. One was that there was a lot of knowledge, but that it was little known and used by the maritime industry. The other was to access practical maritime information and data from Russian authorities. All of this was crucial, according to the evaluation report, to reduce the risk to business operators and to justify the establishment of a centre rather than a professorate. The evaluation concludes that the center has, and now I'm going to quote word law: ‘contributed to, has achieved its objective of collecting and distributing research, knowledge and information on North Sea logistics in such a way that several maritime actors have taken an interest in the north and the logistical needs of the area’. [[...]] This sounds like something a total bulking would think was good. And I believe that this properly also conveys and underlines another significant aspect of this matter. There is nothing in this evaluation to suggest that this was a poor investment by the state. Neither have any members of the Committee claimed it. However, what has been stressed, or more or less pronounced, is that this centre was first and foremost established for Felix Chudi's sake. The whole question of instability is based on the fact that Tschudi Shipping Company should have had a special use of this partnership with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There's nothing to suggest it. Chudi Shipping Company has not had any special advantages, either financially or otherwise. On the contrary, it is stated that the Centre is a source of enrichment for all parties in the region and that it was crucial both in relation to the commitment of the Shipowners’ Association and in relation to the U.D.’s allocation that knowledge could not be reserved for Chudi. Had it been the case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could not have contributed. This is clearly documented in the written material sent to the Committee by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So there is nothing wrong with the fact that both the grant from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the gift from the Chudi Shipping Company went to such a foundation-based centre over to professors. In this context, too, let me say a few words about the proceedings, of which there has been a big point during the hearing from the opposition. We believe, of course, that it is very important that applications for grants are dealt with in line with normal rules of procedure. This application has been dealt with in a clean and proper manner and the U.D. has followed up its activities in accordance with the assumptions contained in the letter of grant. It was also made clear during the hearing when former Secretary Walaas confirmed that the proceedings were in order. The same was confirmed by former case handler in the Shipowners' Association, Westerberg. Here, too, I refer to the printed attachment. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party shall adhere to and have confidence that their statements in the hearing are correct. It is, of course, correct that this is about a fight about the description of reality. It is not unusual in politics, but something more unusual in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the United Kingdom. While in the Workers' Party and the Government's fraction we have always felt that the matter had to be fully resolved in order to be adequately informed, the opposition parties, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, wanted to isolate the matter solely to deal with the stability of the Minister of Foreign Affairs – which, with an overall approach to the matter, would make their political intentions much more difficult, or simply not possible. It can be concluded that the hearing clearly clarified that the changes from the funding of professorates to centres of north-eastern logistics based on a foundation were made through a broad process involving both the Shipowners’ Association and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The initiative to change the original professorship of the Centers for Northern Territory Logistics came from Chudi, but no one can claim that there is something suspicious or mysterious in it. It was part of a whole process that had gone on for a long time, and where all these actors were there. As the foreign minister said in the hearing, if anyone could have guessed what accusations this appropriation would be made, he would have asked for a confirmation of his stability from the Law Department. It's a very understandable statement. One thing is the criticism of the minister himself. Unfortunately, it must be seen as part of a political game, although we should have a common interest in avoiding it on such a weak basis. But it's even worse for the other actors, who experience getting their motives and their rather generous financial contributions to a public and private fissure layer suspiciously made in this way. We hope that this does not weaken the interest of the private actors in continuing cooperation on this type of matter. One might wonder what they thought where they were sitting, invited to a hearing — not called to a trial. Perhaps Ansgar Gabrielsen, a former representative of the state, who knows this house well from the inside, could say what most people thought, that ‘it feels almost unreal to sit and listen to these questions — the experimental hint between the lines — it’s totally unreal’. So it is promoted by a so-called "deed decision" from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. There must be the weakest justified date decision this hall has been invited to take. It is serious and worrying that a proposal for a decision containing parliamentary criticism by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is promoted – what I would call – on such a reconstructed basis. Their actions can only be explained by their efforts to create a platform that can save their political credibility. Of course, this will not succeed. Parties to the Government: there are no grounds for claiming that there are any irregularities in the proceedings. There is no reason to argue that it is critical by the Minister for Foreign Affairs not to have his or her viability assessed in this case in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e445	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e448	First I just want to say that Ansgar Gabrielsen's statement fell after Martin Kolberg had asked his questions to the Shipowners' Association and Ansgar Gabrielsen and others. So I want to take the opportunity to correct a mistake in my own post. The legal aspect of the law department related to the stability between Gahr Støre and the Crown Prince Couple was in 2009, not in 2008, which I was injured to say in my post. So to the question. What, in my opinion, is that Kolberg is kind of trying to create a skin debate linked to who really took the initiative. The question arises as to what appears in the application, which indicates that a State Council should assess its stability. The application includes, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘Through its commitment to the Global Maritime Knowledge Hub, the Tschudi Shipping Company has taken the initiative to develop a project to develop knowledge of logistics, industrial development and business opportunities in the North.’ Does the representative of Kolberg, when a friend's company appears in an application in this way, mean that it does not require that a minister at all should think about instability?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e462	There's two things to say: it's right that Ansgar Gabrielsen answered questions from me. But what he said was what I referred to – and it was not on the basis of the question from me, it was on the basis of what he had heard in the hearing. It was the characteristics of what he experienced, as the serious politician Ansgar Gabrielsen is. So who asked the question is not the reality. The other thing I want to say is, you have to always be serious about dealing with the problem of instability. I don't think there is anyone who disagrees – of course not. But here this was a result of a process in which the Shipowners' Association was at the head of an application, which had its history, and where Chudi was one of the participants, yes, but not in such a way that it triggered the necessity of instability. It is quite obvious that this is an attempt to apply a so-called scratch to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I don't accept that. It's not my setup that's designed here, but it's the opposition parties' attempt to twist the case that creates this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e469	This is absolutely essential, because Martin Kolberg tends to give the impression that he's very concerned that he's a very important question. He replied that despite the fact that the application clearly indicated that the person with whom Gahr Støre has a relationship with him is a central player in this project. Is it not normally necessary for a foreign minister to assess the stability of that image? Is that really Martin Kolberg's answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e475	That's not what I said. I said that you should always be attentive and genuine in terms of stability. That's what I said in my article. But what's my point here is that I understand the foreign minister's way of acting on the basis of the process I've explained in my post, and that it was obvious that this was not something that Chudi was supposed to earn. Chudi went in with money. He not only asked for money, but he went into the project with money. It was quite obvious that it was not that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could support this just because one would support Chudi. It was the Shipowner's Association who, after a process, came with the application, which is documented in the proceedings, in our articles and as it says to read in the setting. It was on that basis that the Minister of Foreign Affairs thought: this looks quite right, it is not necessary for me to go in and apply and check my stability here, for this is the whole industry and the shipping association that is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e480	I understand that Kolberg wants to talk about completely different things than what I'm asking for, but I'm looking for a concrete answer as to whether this is the new line from Martin Kolberg and the Workers' Party, that you don't have to think about instability when you get this kind of clear references to business interests and people you have personal relationships with. It'll be quite alarming, and it'll turn up on some of the starting points that we've had for the problems of instability in the past. I would like Martin Kolberg to be concrete: does he think that the Foreign Minister should have assessed his stability when he saw this application? The Foreign Minister was not involved in the process in advance, it was the other actors who were. In the application for treatment, I just quoted. Is it true that Martin Kolberg believes that the Foreign Minister should have assessed his stability when he received this application for treatment, or should he not? It's a very simple answer to a simple question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e487	It must be so now that it is getting a little weary also for Anundsen to follow along. I have said in my post, said twice now, that I actually don't think he should. I have answered that question. But of that it is not possible to draw any general conclusion that the Workers' Party is not concerned with the problem of stability. We are in every context, but in this context and explained in the way we have now done, both in the setting, in my post and in the answer to the representative's question, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e492	Hope it's going to be the last line, Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e495	I'm going to be glad both the President and others that this is my last line. One must, of course, draw some general conclusions from the specific issues we have to deal with. So that means that this case is not of such a nature that a government council should assess its viability. It's actually a rather new line, because here's the relationship between an important actor in the project and the one who makes a decision, so close that, in the opinion of the lawyers, it should have been considered that the hyperbola should have been considered. Then it is interesting to note that the largest government party is of a completely different opinion than an almost collective legal environment in Norway. We should note that, and that also underlines the need for a new review of the rules of the Administrative Act. Does Martin Kolberg agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e505	Yes, the last thing I want to say is that there is all sorts of reason to discuss, but not just on the basis of this case. It is quite strange that the representative Anundsen and other members of the Committee have not come up with that idea before, namely to talk about the provisions of the Administrative Act on Stability. There might be good reason to discuss it, but you shouldn't turn direct political coins on it in the extension of this case, because that's what you're trying to do. This is probably an example of how a person tries to distort the whole of this matter from what is the real truth: that this was a good initiative. The shipping union was behind it, the industry was behind it, and the foreign minister went into it and thought that it was not necessary here to assess its viability on the basis that the whole of it shows. That's what's behind our initiative, on the one hand, to take this up as a matter of our own, to get it decided and not push it out into the harvest – what the opposition wanted, so that they could run on in the media with it. They don't get any reason for that in the same way, at least. And on the other hand, of course, we'll get a dot for it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e510	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e513	Let me first refer to the statements made by the rapporteur, where it was explained in a thorough and factual manner, i.e. mainly the majority voting. Let me also start by saying what this case does not apply. It does not relate to the political commitment of the northern regions – it is the broad political agreement. I would like to endorse Martin Kolberg's last contribution, with a call for more shipowners to contribute more money in this area of initiative – preferably. What this matter concerns is the procedure, and in practice the matter is very much about the stability issue of the Council of State. These are citizens’ trust in the administration, and whether it is possible to be sure that both the facts and political assessments underpin the decisions on the award of government grants, and not that there is friendship and knowledge or other ties between the decision-maker and the applicant for grants. That is the background to the matter, and that is the essence of the matter. It is the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Administrative Act, which is the legal basis for assessing the sustainability of the administration. And you could ask yourself, is this really important? This matter, through the procedures in the previous articles – if I can call it that – has given the impression that it is an important question because it is about 6 million. kr. It is not the size of the amount that is important, but it is important because it is important that the Council of State avoids situations that according to the legislative text ‘suitable for weakening the confidence in his impartiality’. Impartiality characterises Norwegian administration, and it should also be brought to the top, i.e. to the Councils of State. Therefore, it is important to avoid questioning stability, because if you are in the border country, you should be on the safe side and declare yourself incapacitated. This means that an assessment of viability needs to focus on the outward appearance of the relationship. The provisions provide for a broad, discretionary assessment of whether the official — in this case the Council of State — has such a link to the case that he/she may be less confident that he/she will deal with the case in a neutral or impartial manner. Furthermore, there is not enough general assessment of viability; it has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, as the Council of State has done in the past, on several occasions. For example, the Council of State was given: The Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice to assess its viability in the case referred to by the appointment of Morten Wetland as UN Ambassador four years ago, and in the case referred to by the Crown Princess Couple. In the last case, it was not primarily the friendship, I understood, which made the Law Department assess the viability, but the public report that the case received, in other words – what I mentioned earlier – the extrovert assessment of this, i.e. how the matter was suitable for weakening the confidence in his impartiality. So the fact that there was attention to the matter was in itself a reason why the Council of State sought legal advice. In this case, which is the establishment of the Centers for Northern Region Logistics and the ratio of the allocation of 6 million. kr from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this purpose in 2008, the Council of State acted differently. He did not go to the Law Department, but decided that he was not inhabitable when the question about the establishment of the Centre was raised. The Council of State itself says that he did not decide to ask the Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice for advice, nor does he intend to do so afterwards. On the question of why he was allowed to be able to assess his viability, the Council of State said to the TV 2 news on March 20: "I am against asking the government to do more than they should for sensible work, so I don't intend to do that." On a general basis, this is a reasonable statement, but in this particular case, I think perhaps in the name of the postwar clock, it will prove that it would have been reasonable for the Foreign Minister to have his or her stability assessed. In a chronicle in Dagbladet on 2 April, the Council of State says that his stability at the time was not about his relationship with Felix Tschudi, but about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' cooperation with the institution that applied for and how the project was described. However, in the hearing on 7 May, the Council of State found that it was his relationship with Felix Tschudi that he had assessed in 2008. Friendship flexibility is difficult, because friendship is informal, and the limits are often fluid and individual. The assessment of the difference between friendship and close friendship varies from person to person. I record that this minister sets the definition so that friendship can be brought with many, but close friendship only with people you meet on two hands. There's one definition, but there are several others. It is worth noting, however, that the built-in paradox in the matter of stability is that it plays little role in how the Council of State assesses itself if the outside world believes that he does not have sufficient credibility in the matter. In this matter, in my opinion, the outside world sees that the Council of State and the Chudi have a relationship of friendship, and it is this friendship that affects the credibility of the Council of State. Let me put it this way: if a lifelong friendship where you are together on the brand days of life and vacation together is not to be considered relevant in terms of stability issues, it is difficult for me to see what remains. Nor does it make it easier for the Council of State in this matter that in the press release of 20 March he called Felix Tschudi a ‘known’ and then in the hearing to upgrade him to a ‘friend’, but not a close friend. The fact that the Council of State should have had the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice to assess his stability in this matter is supported by several of Norway's leading lawyers, among others. by the law firm Kvale, which states in Dagbladet on 2 May, that the Council of State should have been ‘obviously’ assessed its viability in advance of the contested million allocation. I also support the views of the professors on this question of viability. However, it is challenging for me to conclude that the Council of State only assessed its stability in relation to the Shipowners' Association, as he said at the press conference on 20 March, or whether he also made a concrete assessment of his stability in relation to Felix Tschudi, as he said in the hearing. In any case, this question of viability was decided by the Council of State itself, without seeking advice. As mentioned earlier, the Council of State was to be consulted by the Committee on 7 May. The purpose of the inspection hearing was to obtain as much information as possible, and we received that. The Committee was informed that, in 2008, the Council of State actually assessed its question of viability in relation to Felix Tschudi despite previous information to the Committee of State Councils that he had only assessed his stability in relation to the Shipowners’ Association. The hearing also showed that the State Council’s presentation of 13 April to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Committee’s contribution to the launch of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics was a direct error considering who took the initiative to establish the Centre. It is clear from the application from the Swedish Shipowners' Association that it is the Tschudi Shipping Company, the initiator of the project for which seedlings are being applied for. The project description gives this with the same clarity. The project description, which was attached to the application, also shows that the Tschudi Shipping Company has large commercial interests in the northern regions. I guess that's good. It is also clear that the Tschudi Shipping Company can get a lot of good and relevant research that they can use commercially in their business activity. I have to add that this is excellent, and that research will also be available to others. I mentioned that when the Shipowners' Association tried to get other shipping companies in North Norway to join the project, there was no interest, even if they addressed themselves directly to named shipping companies in North Norway, so that, in other words, the one who would primarily benefit from this today, is the mentioned Tschudi Shipping Company. The impression is not weakened by the fact that research can also benefit from other potential economic activities, as said, but it has so far not been particularly topical. This conclusion is also supported by Ernst & Young in the note related to the organisation of Centres for Northern Territory Logistics. In my view, these matters should have led the Minister of Foreign Affairs to understand the need for a concrete assessment of the stability and to his seeking advice on this in the Office or in the Department of Justice. I believe that this information provides a basis for our criticism of the Council of State and will conclude my post with the following: In his post in the newspaper on 2 April, the Council of State is open that he may have made a mistake in this matter. It's a vision I'm actually sharing. Finally, only a comment on the previous replies to the Committee's proceedings. I do not agree with the criticisms made against the rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee of the Government Parties in this matter. Any member of the Committee shall be free to ask the relevant questions at the hearing. There were probably also a lot of pressmen who asked something surprising about the representative Kolberg's questions during the hearing, who seemed – let me say – a little pre-arranged, to say it carefully. I would not say that there was any written agreement, but that there was an understanding that the questions were asked in a special form. I also think it is wrong to place special restrictions on the right of committee members to speak to the press. One takes part in the public debate and, of course, risks commenting on issues that may subsequently be the subject of committee proceedings or becoming the subject of committee deliberations. The only constraint that's normal is that you don't comment on other parties' comments until they're public. Of course, it is, but you risk commenting on the comments of other parties because the comments are identical to what has been said in advance in the case. In other words, trying to impose restrictions on committee opinions from other representatives thinks I'm of little use. We are elected as free representatives here and cannot act as political ewes by refusing to give an opinion on issues that are dealt with in the press, but which, later – it may take many weeks – come to committee. Finally, I would just like to say that I am very pleased that this matter was dealt with quickly, as the representative Martin Kolberg opened it during the committee procedure, and that we did not have to wait until the autumn to deal with this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e553	It'll be a little bit reprisal, but it might be necessary. The Managing Director of Sturla Henriksen made it clear during the hearing that the Shipowners Association initiated the project and invited Chudi Shipping in, and that it was working to get more actors in, not least because the north-east regions and the opportunities now offered by the North-East Passage are important for the shipping industry. I must ask the Right-Representative Per-Kristian Foss: Is it so that he mistrusts the Shipowner's Association in this matter? Does he believe that both the Executive Director of the Shipowners' Association and Ansgar Gabrielsen lied – or at least were unclear – about the course of events during the hearing on 7 May?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e563	No, I can reassure the representative Nybakk that the Right has not become so much of the Workers' Party that we mistrust the Shipowners' Association. In addition, I have been employed by the Shipowners' Association 30 years ago, so I do not believe in the Shipowners' Association. But I know that there is a difference between roles, and the Swedish Shipowners' Association had a role in this matter – it was to be an intermediary of initiative and to try to get more people to join in. There's no doubt that it was Felix Tschudi who was behind this project. The shipping company realized that they had to communicate the matter to the U.D., because it was natural that the U.D. had contact with the shipping association and not a single shipowner – I understand that. But there was no more participation in the project despite the fact that the company Torghatten Nord, the company Hurtigruten and others were tried to engage in the project. So I don't believe either the Shipowner's Association or, for that matter, the former Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e570	Now it wasn't like that that it was Chudi who initiated this process at all, but he was the one who suggested changing the project. But let me quote the former Right-State Council Ansgar Gabrielsen, and not the quote we've heard before here: ‘The ship’s company batch was massive for two years before we reached this point, and it materialized in this.’ And on the other hand, ‘In the case of this application related to Chudi, we had a large number of meetings with very many actors to get this to – also Chudi.’ It does not coincide with what the representative Foss is now responding to. Ansgar Gabrielsen also said: ‘I never realized that there was any irregularity in anything whatsoever concerning this matter.’ He also came with a heart attack during the hearing that he thought it was quite unreal to sit and hear what lay in some of the questions that came. Is it so that Ansgar Gabrielsen is mistaken in his description of what has happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e596	No, but Ansgar Gabrielsen is no longer a representative of the Stortinget and no longer a government council. He is engaged – as far as I understand – by the Shipowners' Federation. Then it is natural to characterize the Shipowners' Association in the most positive way possible, including: say that they are placing massive emphasis on this. They didn't give money to the project, it was only Felix Chudi who did, and then later the U.D. That there has been something irregular in the treatment, it is not up to the Swedish Shipowners Association to assess, it is, after all, up to the Stortingen to assess whether the U.D. procedure has been correct or incorrect. I can't see that Ansgar Gabrielsen has pronounced himself – despite heart attacks, which may be his specialty – in any way that I have reason to criticize.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e601	I'm not going to tell myself whether Ansgar Gabrielsen tends to bring heart disease, but is it so that the representative Foss believes that his description of the process, of the time used to work for this project before contacting the relevant actors – of which Chudi was one of the actors – is not correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e606	No, there's no reason to believe. But when it came to the piece, only Chudi was left as the only one who was willing to put money in the project, as well as the public. I think it's important here not just to assess what individual actors have said, but what is actually done. It's the act that counts, and as the law firm that assessed the instability, also said: it's the money behind it, it's the reality that counts. And there's no doubt that it was Felix Chudi standing behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e611	The representative Foss has said several times that he is in favour of the government's North Sea bet on the shipping sector, which also came out now. At the same time, the representative now says that as a result of the fact that Tschudi's company was alone, it would be Tschudi's company that got the primary benefit of what has been done. The representative says clearly that other companies were given the opportunity to participate, but they did not want to participate. My question is then: what would Felix Chudi have done? Should he have pulled?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e618	I find it perhaps little natural to stand in the Storting and give advice to a shipowner. I don't know if that's a natural part of the big business. I have said that I am not only in favour of the shipping area as part of the North Sea operation, but also of the whole North Sea operation – not only for shipping, but everything related to it, for that matter also the mining activity. I can't afford to give to Chudi about how he was going to behave. He saw that he was interested in developing knowledge about the north-east passenger service and other logistics activities in the area, and that's good and good. What this matter concerns is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs was hesitant to deal with this, or whether he was not. It is not a criticism of the purpose of the case, but of the procedure and lack of assessment of the question of viability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e625	As the representative said, there was clearly an insinuation that it was Felix Tschudi's company that would benefit from this. My follow-up question is: Who was Foss' representative for what he said? Who was that a criticism against? Was it a criticism of the other companies that did not find it interesting to be involved, or was it a criticism that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was involved in the establishment when it was just Felix Tschudi's company that joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e632	Useful – yes, I sincerely hope that the Chudi Shipping Company will have this, absolutely. Nor is there any criticism that other companies based on their interests found reason to say no. But there was a description of the project, namely that, at the time this was happening, Tschudi Shipping Company was quite alone in having this interest. It helps to ensure that the company was also the initiator, in addition to the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e637	Well, given what the representative here says, it's back to me that there was a theoretical consideration that Foss is presenting here. It has no relation to the practicalities, neither to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the other actors, who did not participate, nor to Felix Chudi's participation. It was a general consideration that has no relation to the actual conditions. Is it to understand right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e642	I am always careful when the representative Lundtigen accuses me of being impractical. But that was the general consideration that I believe contributed to the likelihood that Felix Tschudi had a particular interest in the matter. In addition to the colleges, which are always open to money, and the U.D., which was open to applications, he was actually alone about having an interest in the matter and was therefore the initiator. It helped to ensure that Tschudi Shipping Company was the initiator. That others may also have an interest in the matter, I will not exclude it, but at the moment. the interest in this project has been one-sided in relation to a single shipping company. At least it's both theoretical and practical.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e648	My line connects to the same thing that Lundtegen has now taken up separately, but I'll say it a little differently. There were several comments in the representative Foss' posts to which it is possible to join, but the political cat came out of the bag when he had to say, in order to justify his position, his criticism by the Council of State, that it was now like this, then, that it was Tschudi Shipping Company who were the ones who ultimately served on this – thus to suspect the purpose. Then he says, after being pressured, that he has full confidence in the understanding of the Federation of Shipowners. I then refer again to what the Swedish Shipowners' Association said about this in the hearing. They said the opposite of what the representative Foss now says in the main hall. They said absolutely that when they could go into this, it was because it was a business enterprise and that everything that happened was available for information.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e653	I almost didn't think I was going to experience in Stortinget to be accused of saying that earning something is wrong. For 30 years I have been on this pulpit and said that I want the shipping companies in Norway to make more money, pay something less tax than what they were threatened with at a certain time, before the Supreme Court intervened, and that they also operate more in Norway than abroad. Making money, I think, is a good sign of this project, absolutely. There's nothing negative at all. There is no insinuation when I say that one shipping company was in a special position to make money. At the same time, I know so much about the Shipowners' Association – I allow myself to say that I think they have to say that they can't serve just one shipowner, but a larger part of the industry. I get that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e658	It was not my intention to suggest anything about Foss' political line when it came to making money. It's just an attempt from him to answer something other than that. So now he says – notice – that the Federation of Shipowners is “necessary to say”. When the Executive Director of the Federation of Shipowners meets in a parliamentary hearing to answer questions, he is not ‘necessary to say’. Then he answers what he thinks it is right to say on behalf of the Shipowners' Association, it is not because he has to say it in this context. But it shows exactly what we've been saying for a long time in this case, that here we're trying to construct indissibles to justify a political attack on the foreign minister. That's what we're going to look back on, not the control business, not the need to check the stability. But this way of dealing with politics is what damages the inspection body, and of course it is a burden for those who propose such a decision when there is no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e665	What hurts the control institute the most, I'll leave it uncommented in this context, but I must say that the government parties should occasionally consider whether you should not go into a defense of your own council or government with a little less intensity. It might reinforce the control function. With 'necessary', I believe that they do not have to do so because it is a hearing, not because it is tactically correct in the matter, but because it is linked to their own rules, as they also stated, and I am well aware of those rules: one should not support projects which are unilateral in favour of one member, it must also be in favour of the industry as such. I have never doubted that they do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e673	Of course, SV is clearly behind the post that Martin Kolberg held, where it was done thoroughly for why it is necessary to have that position. After dealing with this matter for weeks and hours – and now I have a new round of political games – I have to say that I hope more than the government party will think about when one should also have a new listener to the fall, where one will continue with this game as one is doing today. So the game is to play that you don't play a game. What I think is a very bad starting point for developing a democracy, making our democracy better and make sure that our politicians run politics. This is usually called a heart attack, and that's what it is, because I think we're now abusing the control institute and running political games that no party in the long run is looking at. I also wonder when a veteran who Per-Kristian Foss talks about ordering, that one in advance, before a hearing, should be able to control what one wants to hear. Then one continues with this game, a new turn, a new case, a new way to find an angle, which can taste of distrust in some way. But it does not promote – one just keeps on and on and on and on without a person actually having a case to go with. I thank the case spokesperson for saying that SV is straight and upright, etc. The signatures are also credited by the leader of the committee. The light slide drew a conclusion, he went off, and it's of course the leader of the committee's plan that all our government councils should go off at some point. That SV gets boasted that one of us is going off, that doesn't surprise me. The lighthouse was quite clear that he himself meant himself to be involved in this matter. I spoke to him in advance about this, and he was quite clear also before he went out publicly on it, he thought he could not sit down – he had broken the code. He was clear on this – also outside afterwards. There's a very big difference. Our foreign minister is absolutely clear that he hasn't done anything wrong, he hasn't done anything wrong, he hasn't done anything wrong, and the majority of people say, "We end up with this." That's the difference between the two things. There is a completely different conclusion from the two people involved. It is clear that something of the intention when one is also going to continue with this game to the fall is to try to weaken the government. That's the character of the game. Of course, it's legal to do this. But once again, more than the government parties should think about when we're using so much of our political time to keep up with this game. Is that a trick? That's an important question. Politics is easy to want, not just to get hooked on those who want something. Politics is, for example, doing active things in the northern regions, in which all the parties are some of them is important. There is no one at all who complains about what we are doing in the North, and to which the Foreign Minister has a say. Everyone thought this was really great, and it kind of makes sense that the northern regions have a problem, because one has a problem, and so on. What we should be focusing on was the policy we want in the North. I thought it was a bit funny that the representative Per-Kristian Foss talked about ordering works, an experienced politician like him. If it was so easy to call a right-hand man and order what one should say on a ring, I would say it was a strange party. I should therefore end up with a little policy, which has something to do with this problem, but of course has nothing to do with the foreign minister's position. There's something about being principled, about being havoc, about being impartial and not giving any particular advantages. Then I intend to take to heart today's class struggle: 'Gaved to the right-hand side'. 31 million. kr shall be given from the right side. Why do they get it? Why is it that the Right is against begging on the street, but the begs that only it against the rich to get income and big money to run election campaigns and push through their policies? Is it particularly hasty to give the people who give money, reduce the taxation of shipowners, reduce the taxes on wealth, reduce taxes? Those are the people they get the money from. Is it really happily and impartially actually to accept the money? Does not a person blackmail his own policy by running that way? It's a question that I think is important to ask ourselves today, when we spend a lot of time on game fiction from the opposition's side, at least the majority of the opposition party. Let's ask the question even more rhetorical: why don't rowers and others get money on the west side, huh? I conclude by saying that the conclusion – after hearing, after having received a letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and after spending hours here today – is the same as it has been the whole way: our Minister of Foreign Affairs was not inhabitable. We shouldn't have spent that much time doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e692	As others have been involved, this matter is part of a major political issue. The Northern Territory Initiative of the Government began in 2005, with the Council of State Gahr Støre as an Engaging State Council. Part of the background was said to be that Statoil and Hydro competed for participation in the development of the Russian Shtokman field, and there was an assessment in the environment that there would be a new, large and demanding market, which proved to be correct. There was therefore a high level of involvement of key actors and parties. For example, this was an integral part of the Swedish Shipowner’s initiative, as can be seen in the Annual Reports of both 2006 and 2007. Reference was also made to the importance of concrete issues in the North Region initiative. There was established something called MAK, Maritime Arctic Competence, where the University of Tromsø was a central part, naturally enough. It was there to look at the competence of the employees of the ships and to acquire operational competence in the demanding waters. Assistance was sought — and assistance was given — from Russian professionals, which was very central and innovative at the time. Furthermore, health, environment and safety issues, HMS, and it was focused on information around the northern maritime route, how it was farable. North-area logistics centres are an integral part of providing Norwegian shipping companies with the opportunity to participate in the new markets in relation to the safety and environmental challenges required by the northern regions. The assessment of the behaviour of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of State of Gahr Støre, on the basis of the establishment of the Centres for North Sea Logistics in isolation, therefore gives a false picture and may lead to conclusions being drawn on a non-exhaustive basis. The point is that the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics is an appropriate concreteisation of the 2005 Northern Region bet by the government and the whole of Stortinget. Global Maritime Knowledge Hub was created to create gift professors. One of several was the Center for Northern Territory Logistics. The dialogue between the Shipowners' Association, the Global Maritime Knowledge Hub and the Tscudi Shipping Company started as such project: on the financing of a professorate for five years. Felix Tschudi, through his companies, is an engaged owner in the north, both on land and at sea, and, in my opinion, appears to be a long-term, solid owner, and that is good. The handling of seed materials for the establishment of centres for north-eastern logistics consisted, inter alia, of: by two meetings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before the application for a grant for the establishment of the Centre was submitted by the Federation of Shipowners. The application was sent on 10 October 2008 and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave a positive undertaking on 7 November 2008. It is important to stress that there was an ongoing dialogue between the Swedish Shipowners' Association, among other things. Felix Chudi, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this topic, which is quite natural because it was an innovation – it was a matter of growing new soil, maybe new seas. Formally, it was Chudi who established the Centers for Northern Territory Logistics because he thought the original arrangement of the Shipowners' Association was too narrow. The Shipowners' Association agreed. And this is back to the entrance, a wide entrance in relation to the north area bet. The first part of the appropriation, $4.5 million. NOK, was given to the University of Bodø, while the last part of the money, SEK 1.5 million. kr, went to the CHNL Foundation in 2011. Gahr Støre acted politically to give content to the North Region bet, and as a reply and posts here have shown: No one has said that it was disputed when the grant was given, and no particular company has benefited financially from the grant; there is a broad consensus on the realities. Nothing has been identified during the hearing that did Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre inhalebil in the case. The interoperability rules of the Administrative Act are such that much remains to be done before friendship in itself leads to instability. It is the individual Council of State that is to assess its stability in the individual case. The members of the Government Parties in the Committee note that due to the attention given to this matter, Gahr Støre has underlined that it would be natural for him to assess his stability if there were a decision on his table concerning Felix Tschudi, also through a request to the Law Department. The members of the Government Parties support this assessment and believe that it would be a wise approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e720	Let me just first say that when it comes to managing the community's resources, it's clear that it has to be carried out on a trusting and – I'll almost go as far as to say – embarrassingly correct way to avoid weakening the confidence in opinion. As a result, issues related to the viability of those who are actually to distribute the Community's money are also of significant importance. Now the case rapporteur and other representatives have given a broad and thorough description of what this matter is about, so I will not repeat what has already been said. But anyway, because there are a little different perceptions of reality being presented, I want to draw on what is at the heart of the matter: who took the initiative of the Center for Northern Territory Logistics? It has been raised above any doubt, at least today, that it was Felix Tschudi and Chudi Shipping Company who stood as the initiator behind this centre. But at the same time it is important to see this matter in a slightly larger context, which I believe the hearing gave us a very good insight into. I want to, because in the past it is also referred to what the CEO of the Shipowners' Association, Sturla Henriksen, said in the inspection hearing, to quote a little more of what he said, just to show that this is a matter that stands in a slightly larger context. It's more than just who took the initiative. The whole of the North Sea and policy behind it is in a wider context. Sturla Henriksen said in this hearing: ‘Let me highlight the key elements of the timeline of this project. In the winter and spring of 2008, the Swedish Shipowners Association contacted a number of its members – we have 160 member companies – to provide contributors to the funding of professors in charge of the knowledge hub. As part of this, we also contacted Chudi Shipping Company. It was natural both because of their well-known involvement in the north and because Felix Tschudi himself had participated in the work of the Oslo Maritime Network for the establishment of the knowledge hub. The shipping association invited Chudi Shipping to a first meeting, which took place on 18 April 2008. The purpose of this meeting was to get Tschudi Shipping to contribute to a professorship, and the northern regions were launched as an example of a current theme.» And on the other hand, ‘So the short version is that it was the Shipping Association that initiated and invited Chudi Shipping into the project. After Tschudi Shipping had committed to contributing $6 million. kr, it was they who initiated and argued for a change in the project to a centre rather than a professorate. The Shipowners’ Association agreed to this change and so that cooperation and co-financing between industry and administrations could be established here in a way that could provide additional strength to a knowledge development that is important for both parties. On this basis, the Swedish Shipowners' Association sent an application to the U.D. for seed preparations for the start-up of the Centre. This is in short outline and the content of the role and involvement of the Shipowners’ Association in this project.’;» It is important to have this included when we discuss this matter, because – as we see – it was Chudi and Chudi Shipping Company that took the initiative of the Centre itself, but there are also several actors that have a role to play in this project. On the question of stability – for that is the point of concern of the Monitoring Committee in this matter, namely whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in relation to his friendship with Felix Tschudi, has acted in favour of this matter: it is the case, as Lundtägen also mentioned in his speech, that friendship itself does not provide a basis for inadequacy. In fact, a lot more is needed before you get involved on the basis of friendship. But it's important to evaluate this carefully, even when it's about friendship. We have come to understand it this way – for this has not been quite clear and clear to me – that at least in an early stage the Foreign Minister assessed his stability. As has also been mentioned in the debate earlier today, he assessed his viability in relation to the shipping companies. But it's not the shipping companies that's interesting here, it's Felix Tschudi's friend. At the hearing, I understood it at least so that in 2008 the Minister for Foreign Affairs assessed his viability, but found that he was not incapacitated, and found that it was not necessary to go to the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice to get an assessment. All the time there has been a doubt and uncertainty about the stability of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Christian People's Party has concluded that we believe it would be wise if the Minister of Foreign Affairs had already gone to the Law Department in 2008 to assess its stability. It is the Christian People's Party, in the light of the consideration of this matter, that has come to light, and that goes clearly in our note – even all the time the Minister for Foreign Affairs has gone to the Law Department on previous occasions, both in terms of the appointment of his friend, who is now the UN Ambassador, and in terms of his handling of the stability issue related to the Crown Prince Couple and the Apanship. We believe that it would be wise if he did so in connection with the processing of the application from the Shipowners' Association, where Felix Tschudi – not a friend, but his friend – was such a central actor. The fact that we do not agree with the strong criticism that the other three opposition parties are promoting in this matter is because we are promoting such a strong criticism, where the next thing would have been to promote a motion of censure. Then you have to be reasonably sure that the foreign minister was actually incapacitated. It must then be reasonably certain that the proceedings have not taken place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's my assessment. Today, no one has made a direct call for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be inhabilitated. In fact, there is no basis to conclude, either in one way or another. From this point of view, I would also like to say that I think that the government parties are concluding far too quickly, by the fact that all the representatives of the three parties come up to this pulpit and acquit the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's created a doubt about the hibernation. Legal expertise also says something of the same thing as the Christian People's Party, that it would be wise for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to assess his stability in 2008. So we did not agree with this strong criticism that the other three opposition parties are promoting in this matter, but we stress – as we have already said – that our conclusion is that the Foreign Minister should assess his or her viability. We also believe it is important to clarify that when you present the Committee on Control from the start to the finish, it is very right that the information you provide matches the reality. There have been some inaccuracies in which it was first cleaned up at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e756	It's not a trick to be incapacitated. It's actually quite noble to be inhalable. It means that you have order in your affairs and know what friendship and knowledge and family you have around you. Maybe politicians should more often admit that they were inhabile, because being inhaled is a completely honest and honest thing. The reason why we have rules related to instability is that we have to trust the political decisions that are being made. It's about trust in the decision, whether it's about a few thousand copies of a girl's defense or a resource center, or whether it's about millions of support for people who have good advice. It is completely irrelevant which framework is around it. The purpose of the money is also completely irrelevant. Whether the purpose is good or completely miserable is completely irrelevant to whether you are havoc or not. It's not that you don't care about the rules as long as the purpose is good. The objective is not relevant for the assessment of viability, because viability is a matter of confidence in the decision and not whether the decision is good or bad. It seems here that this one agrees is such a good purpose that one can not care about the rules of viability. I don't just disagree with that, I think it's something other than the purpose of the law, adopted in this room. I also think it is important to say that claiming that a minority wants to consult on matters, even if the other issues that now lie in the matter, are to create political gambling. No, it's about taking things that are lifted, seriously. I think it is scary if there are major public debates – which we decide here are small – and we do not take them seriously, because we are working with confidence in our entire political system, and trust in our political system is about taking concerns seriously from the people. That means that when people are worried about something, we're going to take it up in a proper way. But I don't understand the huge aggression of the government parties in this case either, because it was actually those who demanded a hearing. Here it is said that you are not allowed to comment on matters that have not yet been dealt with. Well, we do that all the time. We're politicians. We're discussing politics. We're saying what we agree with, and what we disagree with, what assessments we have. We do that all the time in the media. And if there were any special rules for any special government councils, yes, we'll get to legislate it in this hall. Then I want to, as it's been raised a question about it, come back to Ansgar Gabrielsen's comment, which was quite correctly referred to by Martin Kolberg. But I want to go to some questions before that. The following three questions were asked before Ansgar Gabrielsen said what he said, and which Kolberg referred to. The first question before Ansgar Gabrielsen got the floor was: ‘Was it such that the Shipowners’ Association was simply a tool for Chudi?’ Martin Kolberg asked about this. It's never been the opposition's claim. There has never been any of the accusations. There has never been any of the things that have been under this discussion. The second question from Martin Kolberg was: Gahr Støre has done this to ‘help his friend Chudi’, as it is called?’ It's never been the assessment here either. We're talking about capacity. It is not linked to helping friends, but to having confidence in the decisions that have been taken. It's trust this is about. The third question asked by Martin Kolberg was: Is it such that the Shipowners' Association “was suspicious of what was the purpose of the establishment of this Centre?” That was the question Kolberg asked when Ansgar Gabrielsen said: ‘No, and it feels almost unreal to sit and listen to these questions’. It was the three questions that were asked. There have been disagreements about parts of this. I just want to say briefly what is Left's argument that today we're doing what we're doing. Gahr Støre has said on several occasions that he believes that it is a formal recipient that is important in deciding on stability. That's something that our jus professors disagree with. It's the real receiver that's important. So the question is, have you been in doubt about the stability of this case? There the Council of State clearly states that no, he has not been in doubt, while the professors Bernt, Graver, Boe and Søvik, all four of whom are professors of public law, conclude that this is a question of doubt. So there's a question of whether it's bad to do this, because you see sin on the actors. That is why we have rules on sustainability – so that it does not go against such actors. We, as responsible politicians, are to ensure that there is so much confidence in the processes that there is no harm to actors who want to go into this. I think it's fine with shipowners who are rusty. I think it's nice with young girls who spend all their time teaching other young girls defense. I think it's nice that some people work to have a men's resource center. I think all this is a beautiful purpose. I am absolutely sure that all the parties spend much more work and money than they feel they get back in terms of purpose. But the purpose has nothing to do with this. It has something to do with: do we have confidence in the decision-making processes that have been carried out in relation to whether people are actually Hafile? This is why it damages the case when politicians are not properly involved in terms of the rules on stability. I would like to conclude by saying that there is one thing I agree with the government parties in, and that is that we have spent too much time on this matter. Had Gahr Støre said early that he should have been able to assess his stability, he would have gone in and said that this was a doubt case in which one should have an assessment, this would have been a different matter. Instead, the government chooses to have a hearing; instead, the government chooses to give all the performance – towards a single legal environment in Norway – in that some government councils are infallible, that some have assessments that should never be questioned. But I believe that those assessments are in the process of weakening the confidence in our democracy and in the decisions that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e814	I really don't have much to add. I believe I have explained this matter as well as it has been done in the media, in my letter to the Stortinget on 13 April and in the hearing on 7 May. I see someone thinking that there have been shades in what I have said along the way – what I have said in a studio in the NRK is held up against what I said in a written statement and in the hearing. I get to say I hope the picture is now illuminated. I have tried to provide clarifying and truthful descriptions all the way. I have asked myself since 20 March to have this matter dealt with in Stortinget, in the light of the attention it received, with strong press releases that I see clearly travel an image that will ask questions about the trust in my decisions. That is why I would like to thank the Committee for the work it has done. You may have spent a lot of time on this matter in relation to other things that both Norway and the world disagree with, but this is at least the way progress is made. I've read the setting, I've read what's conveyed by the majority, what's conveyed by the minority and by individual parties. I'll come back a little bit to the lessons of it. But anyway, I have one thing I want to say – almost for the record – after hearing the rapporteur's presentation, which is not new, it is consistent with his argument in this matter and touches on the bottom plan of the argumentation, which is something in the direction of: ‘This is about an application for money for an initiative by the Chudi Shipping Company.’ [[...]] I want to repeat here in this room – for the record – that I believe it is a snuff and therefore crooked and in some misrepresentation of the whole, which I believe has been thoroughly described, not only by Martin Kolberg, but also by the representative Bekkewold. The representative Anundsen believes that I confirm his claim through my reply to the control committee at the hearing. But I have to add what I said in the hearing, it says on page 29 of the vote. [[...]] I said, ‘in the way that both the Chudi and the Shipowners’ Federation have explained here earlier today. [[...]] Martin Kolberg was also thorough in the rendering of it. And so it was a much wider context. It is not possible to cut out the exact wording, which also stood in the application, and say that this is what it was about. So it's a broader picture. It is, as I tried to say in the hearing: behind this project there are many who may say that they have taken the initiative, and that is the sum of the initiatives that make the project special and worth supporting. I also believe that if there had not been any more people behind the initiative, it would not have seen the light of day either. Now, in other words, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is granting money to the foundation for which Felix Tschudi was the chairman. Just to get the correct chronology, the foundation came later, and the chairman came later. That's not what we brought at that point. For me, it has been a little control question to ask the question: Had the Federation of Shipowners sought the Barents 2020 scheme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without Chad? Yeah, that's possible. It is possible that the Shipowners' Association had considered that they would make a larger professorate, perhaps two professorates, by going to Barents 2020, which had not been a current support scheme for the other projects they had under this Global Maritime Knowledge Hub. Is it possible that Felix Tschudi would seek the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without the Federation of Shipowners? Quite unlikely. So that's what Sturla Henriksen says: they initiated this project. I don't think it's right as the representative Foss says, that they just communicated it. I believe that the argument that was put forward in the hearing is very clearly based on that. Let me repeat: there have been two sides to this matter for me. I see that in parts of the debate, only one or just the other has been emphasised. But let me repeat both. Point one: This was an application from the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation, and it was not – to the representative Skei Grande – an application for a few million for someone who had good advice. Now let's relate to reality. No money was allocated to the Chudi Shipping Company or to Felix Chudi. So it was a project that he contributed money to. Let me also say how Sturla Henriksen concludes his contribution to the Control Committee, where he says: ‘I will also repeat – this is important to me – that the Shipowners’ Association could have had difficulty engaging in this project if it would contribute to the benefit of Chad at the expense of our other members’. - That's insurance. It was also the case for me that when the Shipowners' Association stood as sender, the Shipowner's Association had been the initiator of this knowledge hub, that the Tschudi Shipping Company came in and there was dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there was also a quality assurance that the project was as we knew it would be when one of our established professional organisations applied. That is why it was not the case – what comes under the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Administrative Act – that some single actor was given an advantage. It was not the case that the application told me anything about such an indication. That's why I thought the question of viability in this context, this project, was not an urgent question, and it didn't trigger it in me. At the same time, I have said in a larger context – and never put on – that Felix Chudi is my friend. I have never tried to present it as anything else in a newspaper interview. I said ‘recognized’ on a Tuesday and ‘friend’ on a Wednesday – I agree with that, but it was based on many questions from the press. I've never had any reason to hide it, because many people know it's like this – that he's my friend. I stand for it, and it's a friendship that I also appreciate. That is why, since 2005, I have been aware that Felix Chudi is a central industrial player in the north, and that I, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, with a strong political commitment to the North Region bet, should follow it. That's why I explained in the hearing that in assessing that he was also an associate in this project, I assessed whether there was anything about this friendship that made me declare myself incapacitated here. I figured it wasn't. I had received one statement from the Law Department at that time, and it was Morten Wetland. I have carefully described the premises for this and found that I was not inhabitable. It was in 2008. The Crown Prince's opinion came in 2010. I just want to end by saying, yes, I fully agree with what all the representatives here have said, that it is a matter of great vigilance when you grant public funds. There I just want to underline: I've read both the majority, the minority and the individual parties. I'm taking the lesson from that. What I have had to explain to the best of my ability is what was my decision in 2008 – reconstruct 2008. Then I hear from the representative Becquerad that it would have been a good idea if I had done something else in 2008 than what I actually did. I'll take that with me. But the purpose of the hearing and my dialogue with Stortinget has been to explain how I thought in 2008. I would like to say, as I have also said before, that if I had known what was going on between 20 March and 29 May, I would not have refused to go to the Law Department. I've done that before, and I can do that again. Besides, there's no guarantee that everything is just joy and fun. I went to the Law Department in 2008 about the appointment of the UN Ambassador, and it caught me from one of the opposition parties that I had here appointed one of my so-called own. But it's a resource the state councils have when they're in doubt. What I've tried to describe to the best of my ability is why I didn't have that doubt in 2008. Finally, it is quite obvious that the public's perception of the decision and the trust it holds. It's not because it's media focus that it's interesting to go to the Law Department, but the media focus is on reflecting what the public sees as a matter – something like that. made it natural for me to consider this question around the Crown Prince, and which meant that I was always attached to the Tschudi Shipping Company and Tschudi's interests in the north, and had to take it particularly with me, because I want it to be trusted in my decisions. But I finally say that I take with me all the lessons that are contained in the various comments in the setting, stressing that the U.D. is a department with a substantial grant management. We put great emphasis on having systems that of course are in line with the law, with Storting's intentions. We have strengthened the Financial Management Regulations in the Ministry with new arrangements, new processes, new quality assurances, so that there is no doubt that these decisions are based on the will of the Storting and that this will be done in the best possible way. It cannot be emphasised clearly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e861	I will first join much of what Mr. Hallgeir Langeland said about politics and gambling. That's why I want to start by talking about the Northern Region policy, which is essentially what this is about. Nordgebietpolitik is Norway’s main strategic focus, and this is the cross-political consensus. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen presented the first Northern Territory Communication. It was spring 2005. Jonas Gahr Støre and the red-green government reinforced this effort and made it a major field of foreign policy. There's a lot of reasons for that. Norway has jurisdiction over a sea area seven times its territory. A large part of this is in the northern regions. Perhaps the world's biggest environmental challenges lie in the Arctic. Norwegian politicians have spent a lot of time telling our colleagues in Europe and in the northern countries of Canada and the United States how important it is to have a sustainable policy in the Arctic. It was an important milestone that then Senator Hillary Clinton and several of her colleagues went to Svalbard a few years ago, to learn, to see. Barent cooperation is very important for Norway, and we celebrate 20 years for the next year. The part-line agreement was a result of star-class diplomacy, and for years we have cooperated with Russia on the clean-up of nuclear waste in the Kola Peninsula. And so now the northeast pass can become the new route from Europe to the east and revolutionize the transport of goods between European countries and countries like China and Japan. Here, of course, shipping industries also come in and the interest of shipping industries in opening up the north-east pass – and for that matter the north-west pass. But why do I spend time in this debate going through some of the challenges in the north? Because that's what people are concerned about, far beyond our northernmost states. A growing number of countries and organisations have become aware, both of the challenges, of the opportunities and potential dangers in the Arctic, the Barents and in the northern regions as a whole. It must be surprising to the same politicians as we are trying to influence abroad, that the debate in Stortinget is not about the North Region Initiative, but rather is about whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs should have declared himself incapacitated by the allocation of funds to the Centres for Northern Territory Logistics. Misunderstand me correctly: Hatefulness is important. Stability is about the integrity of decision-making processes. Therefore, the pre-war poster is important in that context. In the case we are dealing with today, it is such that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has declared that he is not incapacitated. Moreover, it is that the law says, or at least the conclusions of what is in the law, that friendship is not necessarily automatic when it comes to being incapacitated, it actually needs a lot more. It is also true that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has taken a total view of the grant schemes, i.e. in all departments. But there's something about the dimensions of this debate, there's something about the dimensions of the setting, and there's something about the dimensions of some of the questions that were asked at the hearing. So here, three of the opposition parties go so far that you can suspect them not to exercise control – as members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in the Stortinget – but that it is simply the way they want to give members of the government some scratches in the paint, and then that's the opposition policy we're talking about. With regard to the main theme here, i.e. the opportunities that the north-east passenger will provide for Norwegian shipping, Norwegian business and Norwegian interests in total, the opposition parties – at least three of them – have gone far, far, far in creating subtle realities in order to get the arguments they need in order to give the foreign minister a scratch in the paint. I have been sitting in the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for much of the Pentecostal weekend. In one of the committees, two representatives – one of them now sitting here in the Chamber – did a great job to prevent the Committee from sitting in them, decided that we need to have a separate treaty for the Arctic and the North. Because we have the right of the sea, and that's what's going on, and this has to be explained. Taking care of Norwegian interests in the northern regions requires diplomacy, intelligence and innovation, both from the government and from the Stortinget. As I understand it, this grant case is also in the process of leading the departments out of politics. I have one example: Parliamentary for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament has applied for grants to the activities of the U.D. for support for peacekeeping, but the U.D. bureaucracy does not dare make the decision because the situation is as it is now. If this is representative of several departments, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has now gone so far as to prevent policy-making. Then you can wonder if that's what's meant. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is an important committee. The Committee shall, inter alia: give an opinion to the Stortinget on documents from the National Audit Office, deal with Constitutional Laws, Election Laws, the EOS Committee and decision-making commissions. These are just a few examples. The Committee shall then deal with cases where the Storting is to decide whether constitutional liability is to be enforced, in accordance with Section 12 of the Rules of Procedure. But both in this period and in earlier periods, the opposition has used this power to exercise pure opposition policy. This does not necessarily happen on a general basis, and I do not say that it happens in all cases, and not at all in matters we get from the Riksaudition, but that means that the intention is also to hit the government, and that that – and not the control function – becomes a goal in itself. This may in the long term weaken the legitimacy and authority of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and in this case it is serious, because administrative audit is important. It is an essential part of what the Storting must do, namely to exercise control — with the administration and with the government — as regards the follow-up and implementation of decisions taken by the Stortinget. This is an important issue for the Storting as a whole and not just for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs – so it has been said. Anders Anundsen, the Chairman of the Committee and the Advocate General in this matter, said in their statement that the Committee should not be ‘an arena for political games and shadow boxing’. I can really sign that, and I think we should agree that the committee should not be, and we are quite thorough on how we assess what kind of issues should be dealt with in the committee and how they should be dealt with, and what should be said in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e891	The representative, Martin Kolberg, and the representative, Marit Nybakk – right now, in advance of my contribution – from the Workers' Party wants us to believe that this matter is something other than what it is actually about, namely, the treatment of grants by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Centres for Northern Territory Logistics. It's not about gambling, it's not about the election campaign, it's not about giving a central government member a scratch, and at least it's not about the Nordic policy in general – or about shipping, for that matter. The issue is therefore the treatment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of grants to the Centres for Northern Territory Logistics, where two childhood friends – who also care about adult life – have been very central, and whether it was critical that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not seek advice in order to assess its inconsistency with that matter. Based on what has been revealed in the press and what has emerged from the consultation and the committee's proceedings, I believe that the conclusion is clear. When I hear the speakers on this matter, I ask myself whether the representatives of the government parties have been present at the same hearing that I have been present at, whether we have read the same newspaper articles on the matter, and whether we are dealing with the same rules on stability. As a degression: This is also given a special focus when, during the exchange of lines with the representative, Mr Anundsen opened up the possibility of changing the rules on stability. It is in itself a rather eye-catching statement when we discuss such a matter. So we have to deal with the rules that actually apply – and not with a desire to change them. So now the rules have not changed yet, and a whole legal environment believes that this is a quite obvious matter – contrary to what the government parties think. Only the list of speakers today offers that this is a special matter. When the Labour Party reports four speakers already at the beginning of the debate, it suggests that there is something very special going on. It's a classic solution if you have a bad case, to talk loudly and for a long time, and like to speak with a whimsical voice, also to deny facts and realities and to try to rewrite what the matter is actually about, as we heard in Marit Nybakk's articles recently. No one with a certain degree of political experience is unaware of such tactics. It is tempting in this case to draw parallels to the Light Hill case. It ended with the resignation of a state council. Of course, there's a difference between things, but they also have significant similarities. If you've been puzzled with politics for a few years, it's pretty obvious that you should think about assessing stability when you're going to evaluate the support for a business that partners run, as it was in the Lysbakken case, or it's about childhood friends and people you celebrate your national day with, as it's been about this case. I am not a lawyer and should not lie to myself about that competence, but I have a degree in economics from the Business Institute within, among other things. general government, and I have a political career of 25 years. During that career, I have given many lectures to fresh municipal politicians, and there is always a theme of flexibility. Friendships and organisations you have a connection to are relationships that I say always have to make a bell call. Ideally, that bell should be a big alarm clock. We heard the exchange of lines between representatives Anundsen and Kolberg about why this became a matter of its own. The representative of Kolberg also had a significant mention of this in his main post. I have the distinct feeling, after hearing all the speeches and replies, that the Labour Party today strongly regrets its proposal that this should be done on its own, and that is also part of the reason for the noise level and the considerable disagreement with what the matter is actually about, as we have heard in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e910	I can assure the representative Knudsen that I will speak loudly or for a long time. Even if someone from the debate thought otherwise, no one wrote in their comments that the foreign minister was inhabitant. There's no thing that came out in the earring, that points out that either. Nevertheless, write the Progress Party, Right and Left in its comments that ‘It is clear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should carry out a stability assessment of his relationship with Felix Tschudi prior to the examination of the application.’ [[...]] There's a reason to ask the question, why that? In the hearing, it appeared that the Foreign Minister reflected on his relationship with Chudi in connection with this case and concluded that he did not see the need to formally assess that relationship. This he based on the fact that his relationship with Chudi was less distant than to others whom he had conducted the stability investigation of and became known habil, which he also mentioned today. So the relationship wasn't close enough. The second part of the viability property was also rejected in the hearing. When we talk about the stability of this hall, I feel the need to remember how the administrative law § 6 second paragraph actually reads: ‘In the same way, he is not valid when there are other specific circumstances which are suitable for weakening his confidence in his impartiality; among other things, he should pay attention to whether the decision in question may involve particular benefit, loss or disadvantage to himself or to someone to whom he has close personal ties. Consideration shall also be given to whether an objection of invalidity has been raised by a party.’;» Even if the Foreign Minister himself did not assess the friendship that was close enough, and compared to other things, the Law Department would probably come to the same conclusion, it would nevertheless be critical if a party, here, Chad, had had a particular financial gain on the pledges. That's why it was important for us to light it up in the earring. On direct questions whether Chudi had had a particular financial gain from this, or saw for himself to have it in the longer term, he replied: "We have given this gift to create knowledge, to create a bigger cake for everyone. In this way, it is up to all other actors to take hold of that cake, get to the north and start doing something. That's the message we're trying to get out. [[...]] We try to tell everyone: Come to North Norway, come to the north and do something there! I would say, if we had been very busy – and thought – that we were going to keep this cake for ourselves, we wouldn't be driving with what we're doing in the Centre for High North Logistics." So that's why Chudi gave $6 million. kr for the project – to increase the public benefit. Of course he has interests here, but he says himself that he wants others to share in the same thing. Information is equally available to everyone. Based on this, it's strange that the opposition believes it's critical that Gahr Støre did not formally investigate his instability. So the thing is, someone who's not close enough to Gahr Støre to inhale him invested six million. kr in a centre which also received State aid, which has not provided any particular economic advantage. Both sides of the failure were rejected in the hearing. Nevertheless, the Progress Party, Right and Left drew this up in their conclusion on the subject. The representative Knudsen said that he sometimes wondered if we were on the same phone and treated the same case. So do I. But I'm using the stenographic record that's done, so reality is very accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e939	I understood at the representative Knudsen that I should not take the floor on this matter. I thought a moment he solved the problem for himself by leaving the hall, but I look at my joy that he has come back. When I started working as a journalist in 1969, there was a letter size in the shop that went under the term "Jesus Repetition". There was a title size reserved for the very big case, not to say the very big day. They were not in use at that time for natural reasons. So when Dagbladet – with this font size – reported on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ grant to the Centres for Northern Territory Logistics in a way that gave the impression that the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself had made sure that his good friend, Felix Tschudi – was worth 6 million. kr, yes, it was no wonder if the control committee would take an interest in the matter. This was understood by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and therefore put the Committee in pre-emption — offering a presentation. It is important – let me also stress this – that the management of taxpayers’ money is done in a way that does not violate law and regulation, of course, and that does not weaken trust in the administration either. I refer to what Martin Kolberg and others have said about this – and the Workers' Party considers it important. Therefore, it was necessary to clarify the facts in this case. It was necessary to see if the newspaper's dramatic look was sufficient in line with reality. What was the essence of the claims in the newspaper? There was no question about the purpose for which the money was granted. It was good within the Northern Region initiative – the main strategic area of foreign policy of this government – that has cross-political support in this room, which is also confirmed by the debate today. The objective – knowledge building on the logistical challenges of a future navigability across the North Pole – was an important part of building knowledge in and on this vulnerable area and well within the objectives of Barents 2020. The question was not whether this money was a kind of state aid to the company, because the company itself had contributed the same amount. Neither Felix Tschudi nor the Chudi Shipping Company have received a single crown. On the contrary, they had undertaken to give the same amount as the ministry over five years for this development of competence. This isn't about million-dollar support for people who have good advice, either, as Trine Skei Grande expressed it so insinuatingly in his speech earlier in the debate. This is a knowledge that – and it is important – would be accessible to everyone. No, the question was whether the Foreign Minister could be indulging because Felix Tschudi was a friend – not a childhood friend, as the representative Knudsen claimed, but just as fully a friend. It is also an important issue, regardless of whether the purpose of the allocation is good or bad, in line with the government’s adopted policy – in this case Barents 2020 – or a whole new idea. For an old journalist, it is interesting to see how Dagbladet, as well as other media, used the term ‘billion-dollar friend of the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ consistently, what now Felix Tschudi’s economic status had to do with the question of stability. On the other hand, this expression fits well into the media dramaturgy to create an image, an impression, that goes far beyond the substance and reality of the matter. It's this kind of wrapping we in Storting must be able to remove. Fortunately, this has also happened in the setting that we have on the table. There is also the basis for the suspicion that the foreign minister was inhabitable, at my discretion, also molten away. Even the critical opposition does not find a basis for establishing that the friendship of the Foreign Minister with Chad is affected by the provisions on stability. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' own assessment from 2008 is, in my opinion, well in line with the circumstances of this case, in order to use an expression from the case rapporteur. So what this has boiled down to is the view that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should have received the Law Department's stamp on his own assessment that the proximity of the friendship with Felix Tschudi was not such as to trigger instability. Had he done so, both he and we – and by «we» mean this hall – had been saved for much unnecessary noise and work. However, this point of view on the part of the opposition would seem a bit puzzling, after all the political capital invested in this matter, especially in various media debate programmes, where the head of the control committee and the rapporteur of the case, but also others, began to draw conclusions when it came to the question of stability – even before the hearing. I want to call it a procurator's attack, when you try to invert the matter in terms of setting up the Centers for Northern Territory Logistics, which the grant finally went to, both the money from the U.D. and the money from the Tschudi Shipping Company. The point must obviously be to link the appropriations more directly to Felix Chudi and not to the broader cooperation that has existed between the North and other than the shipping industry related to competence development and innovation, inter alia. through Oslo Maritime Network. It is in order to create circumstances, as the rapporteur puts it, that will fit the conclusion more closely, if one ignores the broader context such as that. has resulted in the funding of several professors. The clear conclusion of the hearing is that the change from funding of professorates to centres of north-eastern logistics, based on a foundation, was achieved through a broad process involving both the Federation of Shipowners and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The initiative came from Chudi, but there is no one who can claim that there is something suspicious or mysterious in it. The Committee's chairman and case-rapporteur Anundsen also said in the line-up that the question of viability would also be there if it wasn't for Chad to launch the idea of the centre. That makes the need for this narrowing even more incomprehensible. This matter is more than about who took the initiative of the Centre, as the representative Geir Bekkevold said in his statement. I fully agree with that. So the critical opposition in the setting says that they ‘rejects that it appears clear that Tschudi Shipping Company could get a lot of good and relevant research that they could exploit commercially in their business activity. This impression is not weakened by the fact that other potential economic operators could benefit from the research as well.’ But the whole point of developing knowledge about the logistics challenges in this area is to take advantage of it — also commercially. We're talking about future shipping. Such knowledge could be used by the Chudi Shipping Company, since they would also be told if the money had gone to the establishment of professors. Now, we've heard today that the opposition doesn't find it reprehensible to make money on this, and that's good, but the opposition finds it useful to suspect this of course. The crucial factor in relation to the commitment of both the Shipowners’ Association — it is clear from the consultation — and the U.D.’s allocation is that knowledge is open, that it is not reserved for the private actors in this Foundation. Had this been the case, the U.D. could not contribute – nor would the Shipowners' Association be engaged, we heard at the hearing. They can only engage on behalf of the whole industry. So there is nothing wrong with the fact that both the grant from the U.D. and the gift from the Chudi Shipping Company went to such a foundation-based centre over professorates. As the foreign minister said in the hearing – and repeated here today – someone could have known what accusations this appropriation was to be made, he would have asked the Law Department to confirm its viability. One thing is the criticism of the minister himself. Unfortunately, this has to be accounted for as part of a political game, even though we should have a common interest in avoiding it on such a poor basis. But it is – as the representative Martin Kolberg also said – even worse for the other actors, who experience getting their motives and their quite generous financial contributions to a public and private fissure team suspiciously made in this way. I wonder what they thought where they were sitting, invited to a hearing, not an inquisition? I think Ansgar Gabrielsen, who knows this house well from the inside, put words on what most people experienced when he said: ‘It feels almost unreal to sit and listen to these questions — the experimental hint between the lines — it’s totally unreal.’ [[...]] I don't think this was limited to a response to the questions asked by Martin Kolberg, as Trine Skei Grande claimed. We, who represent the government parties, are in the debate, both here today and after the committee's position became known, accused of having got some sort of marshy soil from higher powers to defend the foreign minister with beaks and claws. But the Foreign Minister needs no defence whatsoever in this matter but the realities of the matter. Nothing has happened irregularly in this allocation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was, at my discretion, not inhabitable. The procedure was not abnormal. It was quick, but we should be happy for that. So there is a proposal for an act by the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. This room has hardly been invited to support a less reasoned proposal for a decision on dates. Here the control committee has dug and dug in a case The newspaper promised was a real scandal – well worth "Jesus Recursion" letters, page by page, day by day. But it's been like peeling the onions: You remove layers for layers – just to discover that there's no nucleus. The proposal for a date decision was eventually the small parts of the opposition had to cling to so that this matter would not sink too quickly into the memory. What needs to be defended in this matter is the control function of Storting. It needs a defense that it should not be undermined by what is a party political game, where the intention slips away from controlling government to discredit political opponents, on a basis that is largely constructed itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1007	Just a little clarification: the representative Svein Roald Hansen said that there was no basis for calling the Foreign Minister and Felix Tschudi childhood friends. I'll quote from the hearing on page 14, where Chudi says, «To the relationship: Gahr Støre and I attended parallel classes through high school and developed friendships when we both took a one-year officer's course at the Maritime War School.» If not otherwise, can we agree that they knew each other in childhood, if they could not necessarily be characterized as childhood friends? But they've had a friendship from going to the Maritime War School, until today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1017	That was basically the point: the friendship was developed when they went to the Maritime War School, and you don't go there as a child.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1022	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1027	The last exchange of lines should perhaps be the end of this debate. But I think that is the basis for making some comments, especially after the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that there had been some nuances in his statements. I don't know what the Foreign Minister really defines as nuances. On March 20th, the Foreign Minister said that he had not assessed the instability in relation to Felix Tschudi, while on May 7th he said that he had assessed the instability in relation to Felix Tschudi. In my language world, it is considerably more than nuances. For the record, I had almost said, the Minister of Foreign Affairs quoted me wrong in a few areas. The Foreign Minister himself can go back and see in this brief. So I quoted all of his answers during the hearing, when he confirmed that it was Felix Chudi who took the initiative to set up the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics. I did not say that there was any money for the foundation until the foundation was established. It was established – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said – in 2009. However, in 2011 it received a residual allocation of 1.5 million. kr directly, via a detour, about the University of Bodø, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs used the wrong account number. In these areas of fact, I actually believe the Foreign Minister's version and my version is quite consistent. I note that what might be the challenge of understanding reality is that the Foreign Minister is still insisting on talking about more than that matter is really about. Here we just have to disagree. I agree that this is part of a larger context, but the part of this context on which we have opened a case, on a proposal from Martin Kolberg in the Workers' Party, relates to the procedure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had in the application for grants for the establishment of Centres for Northern Territory Logistics. Then everyone, I think, admits that it's part of something more, but it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' casework that's relevant. Then I record that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and others – in this room and outside this room – have used a principle opinion from the Department of Justice's law department related to the relationship between Jonas Gahr Støre and Morten Wetland in the appointment of a new UN ambassador as the basis for saying that there is a lot to be friends inhabile to each other. But it's a friendship of a completely different character. It is in Gahr Støre's transmission to the Law Department, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘I will describe the relationship with Morten Wetland as professionally and politically close. We're not friends. Over the years we have also had occasional contact with each other privately, anchored in contacts related to professional and political work." So it's kind of a work relationship, where it's essentially going to have to be extremely much to do before failure occurs. The friendship that Gahr Støre has described in the case of Chudi is of a completely different nature. I'd like to quote one sentence – which really says the most – in the Law Department's statement: ‘A closer cooperation in the service will not normally lead to instability.’ These are two very different issues, and at least one can't be used to justify that you don't have to assess the stability of the other. I think almost as the case rapporteur I get to say that I think Marit Nybakk had an interesting post, because she started by saying that it's the North Region policy this matter is really about. It's not. This is not at all a question of Northern Region policy, which is widely supported politically in this Chamber. This is therefore a matter of concrete examination of a specific application by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, neither more nor less. We can agree that everything is part of a larger everything, and then you can extend the matter to almost everything between heaven and earth – which we saw in the last article of the representative Hansen, where we got insight into the Arbeiderblade's use of different fonts – but the matter is not about that. The representative Nybakk also said that this had led to a paralysis in the department. I hope that's not right, because we're all dependent on democracy and that the departments are functioning properly. However, if it is really the case that the questions raised by the Control and Constitutional Committee relating to the management of grant schemes and to the sustainability of the budget lead to delicacies becoming paralysed and do not dare to do anything, then at least it shows how important it has been that the Control and Constitutional Committee has taken this matter. That kind of uncertainty should not be in a well-managed department. The representative, Christensen and others, among others The representative Svein Roald Hansen has said that there is no one in the setting who writes that Gahr Støre was inhabil. No, of course not! In that case, it is not for the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to conclude with stability or not with a Council of State or a Minister. In our system, the Administrative Act has been set up so that it is the legal entity that decides whether the assessment by the decision maker has been correct or incorrect. In this context, there would be national law, and the opposition writes in the setting that there is no one who has even considered bringing out the large sables. Well, that should be a pleasure. But it's strange that part of the positioning parties think they're hafile to assess the legal viability of the Foreign Minister by completely acquitting. I think it's weird. But it's a logic that one doesn't conclude with stability or not by the opposition parties. It doesn't belong to us, it's not our job to do. The Foreign Minister has made his decision, and if we were to challenge it, it had to be done by national law. It is of course not relevant in this case. The representative Hansen also says that I and others should have concluded with media instability. It's directly wrong -- or someone might call it unpresist. What I concluded with – and I also explained that in the post – was that I believe it is obvious that the Foreign Minister should have been able to assess his or her viability, i.e. have been helped to assess his or her viability in 2008. There is something quite different than saying that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was involved, and I think perhaps the level of precision of some of the positioning parties has been a little weak in this matter. I think that is very worrying. It's worrying, because one of these people is accusing someone of pulling out their quotes at one moment, while one of them is solving quotes at the other moment itself. It is quite obvious that the questions referred to by the representative Trine Skei Grande in the meantime led to the fact that any relatively up-and-coming person would answer exactly the same thing that Ansgar Gabrielsen answered, namely that it is completely pointless to sit and listen to these statements that are not on the basis of which the opposition has never spoken, even though the representative Kolberg asked the questions he did. It is true, as some have stressed, that the Committee on Control and Constitution is too important to be pushed away in political games and shadow boxing, and I hope that all parties, especially the largest positioning party – I state that I said the positioning party – should notice in the future when this and other things will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1057	It really wasn't my intention to take the word several times. I believe that the positioning parties have explained their views very carefully, but after Anundsen's last article, I want to say two things – for the sake of the record, as it is called. One relates to this use of the quote from Ansgar Gabrielsen at the hearing. It is absolutely right that Gabrielsen also related to the questions I had at the hearing. That's right, I haven't disputed it at a single point, but the answers to the questions that came before Ansgar Gabrielsen answered what he said were that everyone rejected the indication that the opposition parties had. It was they who had made this impression, it was not I who had made that impression. As Gabrielsen replied, quite correctly, that this was totally unreal – not only in relation to what I asked for, but to what he had experienced throughout the hearing so far. That's what was going on here, and that's why we've used Gabrielsen's quote in the setting, and I've used it in this post. This is not something to teat on, as it is called, but I hear the case rapporteur needs to twist it, and that is why I am saying it as I am now saying. So I just want to say something at the end of the debate, which really follows completely in the reasoning of this. It was the representative Foss who said in his post – or perhaps in the reply reply, I do not remember it quite correctly – that I had operated on pre-determined questions, not in writing, as he said, but probably asked questions. It tells you a little bit about the tone of this discussion and what kind of arguments you have to make to justify your political position. I don't think that was right, because I asked the questions that I felt were necessary in order to find out the matter. Was there something wrong here? Was there something wrong here, in the proceedings? Was there something that was wrong in other ways? I just wanted to make these two markings, because I want, for the record, to make it clear that it was not that I had agreed any questions in advance, and I have said what I mean about Ansgar Gabrielsen's quote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1066	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1080	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers of each party group and the Foreign Minister be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers and the Minister for Development at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1087	Storing message No. 11 is about something as vital as Norway’s international efforts to ensure human life and health. Norway is a heavy player both in international health diplomacy and in health care. The Government's communication and the suspension of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence fully agree that Norway should continue to give a broad-based priority to health issues in our foreign and development policy. This consensus gives strength and predictability, which is important for Norway’s efforts to deliver good results. In the Committee's consultation on the matter, we have received important input from many organisations, professional environments and professionals. They have supplemented the comprehensive material presented by the communication itself. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank you for these valuable professional contributions, and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on constructive discussions. The representative of the Christian People's Party, Jon Lilletun, who passed away too early, once said about the budgetary procedure here in Stortinget that a good budget from the Bondevik government – that time – had become even better here in Stortinget. I will draw the same conclusion today, a good political platform from the government has become even better through the treatment of the Storting. There's some of the strength of Norwegian democracy, that we can do this. The new and valuable feature of the EEA Communication is that it seeks primarily to provide a comprehensive description of the links between health, such as domestic policy and health, as foreign policy. It also underlines the importance of further developing a knowledge-based policy in order to obtain the best possible results. Internationally, it is relatively unusual — I do not know if there are any examples of this — for a foreign minister to present the political platform for the international health effort of a country. I would like to say that it is a strength both for health policy and foreign policy that it is precisely the Minister of Foreign Affairs who is presenting the matter to the Stortinget. At the same time, however, it underlines the obvious need for coordination of Norway’s global health efforts between different disciplines and ministries. Norway is highly profiled by several global health initiatives. It increases our expectations as a nation. It is therefore very important that we appear as a targeted and demanding partner with clear priorities. It is therefore essential that the Committee agrees on the main priorities of Norway’s international health effort: We are going to mobilise for women's and children's rights and health we are going to reduce the burden of disease with emphasis on prevention and we are going to integrate health objectives into the broader foreign and development policy, as the government expresses in the objective of promoting human safety through health. The eight-thousand-year targets of the United Nations are the main foundation for Norway’s development policy efforts, and Norway has taken a special responsibility in monitoring the health-related thousand-year targets. Although the majority and the government parties choose different formulations in the mention of some of the points in the communication, I, as the rapporteur, would like to stress that we are at the same time united on the important recommendations ahead. Other speakers from the Christian People's Party will take up other aspects of the position we are discussing today. Let me draw up five main points where I think the committee has led the discussion beyond the big message, together. The Committee has helped to clarify the understanding of the concept of global health, which is useful because there is no agreed definition. Secondly, the Committee has helped to clarify the value of human rights as a normative basis, but also where their limitations lie. A Joint Committee shares the Communication's view that fundamental human rights provide a normative basis for the efforts of States to ensure public health, while stressing that human rights place primary responsibility on their obligations towards their own citizens, while international obligations are not resolved accordingly. Thirdly, the communication does not provide figures as to how the main components of Norway’s global health effort have evolved over time. The Committee considers that such data would provide a better basis for discussing priorities and practices. To this end, the Committee has complemented the call for proposals by collecting and presenting information on the evolution of health-related efforts, both in Norwegian development assistance, in the support schemes of the EEA Agreement and bilaterally in the North. The numbers give rise to slightly different reflections in the options. Fourthly, without the clear presentation of the notification, the Committee has noted that during the last decade, Norwegian aid has turned around in the health sector. In addition, we put more emphasis on comprehensive and coordinated health sector assistance for the implementation of national action plans in individual countries. More recently, Norway’s bilateral efforts have focused more on specific interventions and initiatives that drive targeted actions, such as: within maternal and paediatric health. This is where conscious strategy choices are needed. The Committee is open to discuss how the balance between such different types of efforts should be, but concludes on one point: we need to avoid the loss of competence that is at risk if we do not maintain health professional competence in relation to both bilateral and multinational health programmes. Fifth, the report on global health lacks discussion of the field of mental health. Several hearing bodies pointed this out. The Committee points out that human rights ‘recognizes the right of everyone to have the highest achievable health standard in both a physical and a mental sense.’ This is quoted from Article 12 of the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This is why the Committee has discussed the challenges of mental health in particular. A unanimous committee underlines the importance of this part of Norway’s international health effort. In our efforts to reduce the burden of disease, we face a variety of challenges around the world. In the poorest countries, infectious diseases remain a major concern. Therefore, the focus on vaccines is one of the most cost-effective investments we can make in global health. Innovative funding solutions have contributed to new vaccines for diseases affecting the poor, lower vaccine prices and improved vaccine coverage. Millions of lives are saved with such a fundamental health effort. The results are pleasing to all of us. At the same time, it reminds us that without the permanent strengthening of health systems in all parts of a country, neither the vaccination services nor other important health services can reach all to improve the health of mothers and children. Training of health professionals and funding of health services are therefore key pillars of the fight for better global health. There is reason to recall that the economic growth now experienced by many low-income countries is changing the global health challenges. Many countries have increased economic space but do not necessarily use it to build health services for their population. Their challenges in relation to communicable diseases that can be prevented persist. At the same time, they are faced with a new and expanded burden of disease: they also have to tackle the challenges of non-infectious diseases – cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes and, last but not least, mental disorders. It provides a change in the requirements for health care. The National Public Health Association points out that dementia can affect up to 110 million people by 2050. In this context, the Committee calls on the government to assess how such non-infectious diseases can be better integrated when the UN Millennium Goals are revised and new strategies are put in place. In the international health debate, it is becoming more and more common to focus on rights. It's a very good starting point that jumps out that all people have an equivalency, the same value. But in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the right focus must not be driven to the point where we lose focus on the qualitative we are to achieve. Equal access to healthcare is of little help if these health services do not meet the objectives. Saving lives, preventing and relieving suffering and raising the quality of life for people most requires well-organised health systems based on quality, competence and national responsibility. In order to achieve the objectives of continued decline in infant mortality and better assembly, it is necessary to build on knowledge of what has the best effect. In its position, the Committee points out that 40 pst. of child deaths occur among newborns. They are largely related to premature birth, lack of oxygen at birth or infections. Often it is related to poor growth conditions for the foetus because mother is poor nutrition. Along with vaccination, targeted response to these factors could provide the safest, largest and most lasting reduction in infant mortality. The Committee also draws on the possibilities now offered for the control and eradication of several forgotten tropical diseases. These are diseases that take the life force of millions of individuals and inhibit development and growth in large parts of the world's poor countries. Now there are the drugs that can eradicate these diseases. We should participate in that virtue. It will dress Norway to do that part of the effort also in the international arena. In all policy areas, we need to continuously assess whether efforts are delivering good results, whether or not something is wrong and whether or not something can be improved. Health assistance has been, is and will be a priority sector in Norwegian development cooperation. I am therefore pleased that it is a unanimous committee which confirms that: ‘Health assistance is one of the most well-documented areas of assistance. The effect is not only to save lives and health for millions of people, but also to reduce the number of sick days and to increase the health status of the population more generally.’ This is about the backbone of economic and human development in the world's poor country. Norway, through systematic and targeted efforts in this area, aims to strengthen and build the spine. As a Parliament, we can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1152	Today, I think we are debating an important big message where the government has raised many challenges and gives clear priorities for a Norwegian global health policy. Norwegian policy is based on respect for fundamental human rights. I believe it is important that we have a rights-based approach also to global health, that we take on the basis of international human rights such as, among other things. are enshrined in the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children, Women and Persons with Disabilities. Now it is the responsibility of each country to fulfil its human rights. International cooperation must therefore underpin its capacity and will, with a focus on ensuring robust health systems and equal access to healthcare for all. Norway must therefore have a clear voice internationally, in particular in support of oppressed and marginalised groups. Several developing countries have experienced marked economic growth over the last 10 to 15 years, which has led to the World Bank upgrading from low-income to middle-income countries. Despite this, this growth does not reflect the reduction in the number of poor and the distribution of goods, such as health. Growth is concentrated on small groups in society, increasing the gap between the poorest and rich groups in many of these countries. 70 pst. for the poor of the world, live in middle-income countries. I therefore believe that development policy should perhaps contribute even more to a better distribution between the rich and the poor in individual countries. Health, in the view of the Workers' Party, is a global common good. We believe that Norway, through political leadership, diplomacy and financial support, can contribute to mobilising a strong and broad global consensus to meet national health needs. At the same time, we can help to make national authorities responsible for establishing and ensuring universal access to healthcare. One of the objectives of Norwegian global health policy is to better integrate health objectives into foreign and development policy. Meeting places for heads of state and UN systems are important arenas here. Political networks across traditional forums and cooperation alliances are another important instrument. The Red-Green Government aims to contribute to health promotion policies for all. Prevention, access to clean drinking water, safe food, proper nutrition, good sanitation, vaccination and knowledge of how to promote good health and avoid disease are necessary. The Government outlines three areas of action in the communication, as the case-rapporteur said: mobilising for women's and children's rights and health reducing the burden of disease, with a focus on prevention promoting human safety through health Mobilising women’s and children’s rights and health is a right and important priority. The UN's Millennium Goals contain ambitious objectives for this. For Norway, it has been important to work for equal access to health for women and children in order to reduce child mortality and maternal mortality. For the Workers' Party, equality is an important central element of this work. To achieve the Millennium Health Goals, more attention needs to be paid to reproductive health through the use of legislation to ensure women's access to prevention, protection against early marriage, violence and sexual mutilation. We also believe it is important that girls and women be guaranteed the right and control of their own choice, linked to sexuality. Every year 273,000 women die as a result of complications related to pregnancy. We believe that reproductive health must also include the right to safe abortion and treatment in case of complications, regardless of whether the abortion is illegal or not. This may be perceived as controversial for some, but we believe that if we are to bring down the death toll, this issue needs to be raised higher on the agenda, and that requires action. The second focus of government is the reduction of the burden of disease, with emphasis on prevention against diseases that account for a large proportion of the lives lost in the poorest countries, and on the strengthening of health systems, with equal access to health services for all. Vaccination has been and is an important measure. Progress has been made in the treatment and prevention of the main life-threatening diseases, such as HIV and AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. But we still have a way to go. Poorly developed and vulnerable health systems and the lack of health professionals make work difficult. It is therefore necessary to contribute to health systems where national authorities take a clear overall responsibility for the provision of health services to the population. Their overall responsibility must therefore be central to the dialogue with the authorities of low-income countries, who are moving into the middle-income group, as I mentioned a little earlier. Non-infectious diseases, such as lifestyle diseases, have received increased attention in recent years. What's a little stressful about these diseases is that there's a lot of financial interest behind marketing products like tobacco, alcohol and unhealthy food, and there's a lot of money to make on the market of many of these products. Therefore, efforts to prevent and reduce the occurrence of non-infectious diseases require not only a national public health policy as a whole but also regional agreements as an important contribution to global solutions. The third area is the promotion of human safety through health, which is about how health objectives can be better integrated into foreign and development policy in general. Climate change, pandemics, lack of access to drugs and sexualised violence are all threats to good health. The impact of climate change on health can be high, and we need to contribute to prevention with greater emphasis on food safety, water supply and sanitation. The protection of infectious diseases and pandemics is another important area in which safety and security must be ensured by the fact that health is a theme of the foreign policy agenda. Finally, in the work on this communication, we – as the case-rapporteur was in the Chamber – have received a lot of good input, and I am very pleased about that. But there is in particular one issue that has distinguished, which was also mentioned earlier here, namely mental health, which many thought should have been more widely discussed. In this position, the Committee, as the rapporteur stressed, has addressed this issue, and I would like to thank the Committee for the good work it has done. It's been very constructive and good, and it also shows that there's a great and cross-political commitment to global health, and it's very, very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1192	I very much agree with the previous speakers on the conclusions, which are very much unanimous in this matter. I would also like to thank the government for an in-depth communication which the Committee has also undergone in-depth consideration. Health services are scarce in the world. Of course, it affects poor people in Asia and Africa first and foremost. Better health services are important to give individuals a better life. The Government, through political leadership, diplomacy and financial support, promises to be a driver for mobilising a strong and broad global consensus for cooperation to meet national health needs. At the same time, the government will be responsible to national authorities for establishing and ensuring access to healthcare. This is ambitious. In the Progress Party, we agree with the government that healthcare is primarily the responsibility of national authorities in each country. But health is also an individual responsibility. We all have a responsibility for our own health. The economically most prosperous countries have great advantages. Here are the best health services, where availability is best, where prevention is the biggest activity, where people have the best health and the longest life. A citizen of Mozambique must prepare for a life that is only half as far as the life of a resident of Switzerland. The Americans can expect a life that is ten years longer than the Russians. The health situation in capitalist countries that are well integrated into the global economic community is far better than elsewhere – whether the health system is organised with public framework funding, price financing or whether it is based on individual insurance schemes. Economic growth and prosperity, free trade and capitalism are therefore the main contribution to improving the health situation of the world's poor. Both the government and we in the Progress Party are satisfied with the GAVI Foundation, which is implementing vaccination programmes for children. In Malawi I was present last year and got to see Gavi in action. In a small village, 205 small children were vaccinated against a total of seven diseases in just over an hour. Thus, these 205 small cups were vaccinated against chick cough, diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis B, influenza type B, measles and polio. Later, GAVI will also introduce a vaccine programme against pneumonia and diarrhoea. A childhood marked by illness will cause great problems for the rest of your life. GAVI does not fight poverty and does not create economic growth, but GAVI provides better health for children in Africa and thus enables them to cope with the challenges they face through life. I am therefore proud to be among those who have nominated GAVI for the Nobel Peace Prize. In the meantime, the Committee’s setting up is a clear message to the government to support the GAVI’s important task of improving the health of young children by vaccinating them against dangerous diseases. In 2010, I was on a visit to a very special institution funded by UNDP in Monrovia, Liberia. It was an institution for raped little girls who had become pregnant. It was a strong experience. It was girls all the way down to eight years. Pregnancy at that age causes serious health damage both physically and mentally. There were unfortunately many at this institution, and there were many more that had not been put there. Many were raped by their own close relatives — fathers, brothers, uncles, and cousins. The Progress Party believes that national authorities in all countries have an unconditional responsibility to combat this phenomenon by all means. I mention this as an example. I believe that Norwegian authorities should increase pressure on the management of countries where this is widespread. Here, Norway should demand action and results, unless it is able to provide reduced support above the Norwegian aid budget. Yeah, I think we need to be a little bit tougher here. The Government states in its Communication that financial support should be one of several instruments for achieving health and healthcare outcomes. That principle should apply to both roads. We need to be able to reward efforts by national authorities in poor countries when they achieve results, and we need to be able to reduce subsidies – at least over a period – when governments, like Liberia, ignore problems of this kind. The majority of the committee, all parties except the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, point out that equality between women and men is important in achieving the goals we have set ourselves. It is important that women all over the world are entitled to prevention, protection against early marriage, violence and sexual mutilation, says the Committee majority. Every year more than a quarter of a million women die of complications associated with pregnancy. The right to safe abortion is important to reduce this problem. It is strange that the right does not agree with this reasoning. If we are to achieve our goals, the capacity of health care in the world needs to be increased faster than population growth. I am not sure that is the case today, but we must not give up. I therefore thank the Government for its willingness to improve, as described in this message, and hope that this will will result in action and results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1215	I think it's very useful for the Stortinget to discuss Norwegian aid policy, it's very rare we get the chance to do it. Although aid is one of the main items of the State budget, this chapter disappears to a very large extent when we have the national budget for treatment, as is the revision of the national budget. In fact, combined with today’s big news, we have the opportunity to go deep and thoroughly into this problem – in a country that has a history of development in modern times that hardly has any other country in the world, where we can present ourselves as a model outside. We have achieved results in the field of health as almost no other country in the world. We have systems and safety nets around us that almost any other country – with few exceptions – can only dream of. It is precisely in this area — on health standards, also well seen through the big news — that we really see how the differences in the world really are, and where, as happy Northmen in different countries, we can adorn ourselves with conditions that allow us to continue to navigate differently from most other countries in terms of our material development. Our challenges lie light-years away from everyday life to millions of hungry women, who are at risk of dying during pregnancy, or to the many millions of children who are never given the opportunity to grow up. This is the debate I think Stortinget rarely takes time to go deep into, which can also provide a good background for us to actually be able to prioritize as much as 27-28 billion. kr as an expenditure item in this budget chapter. It's clear that we're going to discuss the content of this chapter thoroughly and well, and we're going to ask many and good critical questions – I'm going to talk about that a little bit – but it's also important to show that our policies, our historical contributions, our help and our performances out there are actually useful and create the big difference. It can be crucial for life and death for people out in the big world. I believe that the rapporteur has done an excellent job in the committee work. His own footprint has continued a common policy, in the opinion of the Right. What has been said here by other speakers before me, is just to join. What has been underlined by the vaccine programmes and by the rapporteur's efforts in the GAVI only illustrates that we need to do more where the results are best and where the differences can be greatest. At a time when the world around us is like a nightmare of financial crisis, we see that the challenges in the future are not getting smaller, they are getting on the contrary bigger in some areas where we thought we were in control of development. We see imports of diseases; globalisation poses new and greater challenges than before. We also see that the poor part of the world that is the largest, now suffers significantly from a kind of giver’s drying from the more well-being nations. So you could say, as other people have said, that the message is a good listing and a description of the situation and of the challenges. It is mainly a concentration on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We have said from the Right in our remarks that we would like to have a greater mention of the Ministry of Knowledge's challenges on this track half. The world has a desperate shortage of health workers. We can make an even greater effort out there, in the form of training of health workers. It is also sometimes a dilemma that small Norway, which has just passed five million inhabitants, is in a lack of some key health personnel. We're going to be careful not to break any ethical boundaries in our own imports of health workers to meet our own somewhat expanded needs in the time we meet. The Communication also outlines the need for better coordination and coherence of international policies. There are, as others have pointed out, many different actors, many different initiatives and many different partnerships, health campaigns and organisations that are working out. Therefore, many claim that this effort is fragmented and inconclusive. There are many examples of this. As previous speakers have stressed, Norway, as a major act and also as a contributor in this area, must say from within the forums from which you can say, and where you have the authority necessary to help improve coordination, so that there are not too many actors out there who spend too much of their time waving their own vibe. This is also reflected in the World Health Organisation review. The notification also outlines the need for this organisation to be reformed, while the World Health Organisation itself estimates that a large part of the health effort is being played out due to a lack of efficient resource use. There is also a kind of dilemma in a situation where we see that some powers out there have significant economic growth and development — Africa, for example, and Asia as another excellent example — but where we see that lack of democratic development and lack of coordination through leadership ensure that health and the public safety networks in this area are not followed up as a result of increased national economic developments. Some claim that the health share of the aid budget is decreasing. The opposition parties say that the amounts are increasing. I guess both of them are right in this definition. My question will be whether the overall aid policy has become too large and extensive, so that in many ways this could risk going beyond the areas where we see that the results work best. It is definitely such that health assistance has shown the best documented results. I am not saying this as some sort of criticism, but more like a call to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Assistance to be conscious of this relationship, at a time when we are also going to make considerable efforts in the field of climate policy outside the world, which is also covered by the same budgets. Finally, I am a little unsure whether it is right to focus on the quantitative amounts of our EEA contribution. I think we're going to assume that even if we pay a lot of money to develop former Central and Eastern European nations in this area as well, we should not forget the fact that these are expenses for own national income service. This is payment for having market access to the internal market, just so it's said. We will be careful to address this as a significant assistance challenge that we will focus too much on in the future. The rapporteur has withdrawn and improved the setting, which has been widely endorsed by the Stortinget. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1243	I fully agree with the initial considerations of the representative Kristiansen from the Right. Although the press release is empty, this is both an important debate and an important big message. I think it is good that the government has presented a big message with clear priorities: firstly, to mobilise for women's and children's rights and health, secondly, to reduce the burden of disease, with a focus on prevention, and thirdly, to promote human safety through health. The representative Eva Kristin Hansen presented this well. I'm not going to repeat her points. The world is characterized by a fundamental misalignment of both power and resources. Health and distribution are closely linked. When we work to balance social differences, there is also very important health work in it. Balancing between countries and within countries is important for improving global health. Therefore, a rights-based approach to health is so important. Human health can never be primarily an individual good and responsibility. On the contrary, human rights and shared responsibility, and not least universal access to good public health services, are important. This is one of the issues raised in the Committee's deliberations. It's okay to notice, and it's an important debate to take. I believe that it is only by such an approach that cohesion can be achieved in countries. And the differences in many middle-income countries are formidable. A lot of people are dying today from diseases that are easy to do with. Human health global is therefore a shared responsibility, it is a collective responsibility, and access to health care should be a collective good. We also need to be able to strengthen national health systems. First of all, only the country itself can do it. It involves increased access to health professionals — and it is a key priority for the government’s work on global health. In some debates during the last election campaign, there was a discussion on television about the use of the word ‘fire wave’. There was a discussion about the violent need we are going to have over the next decades for more health and care professionals in Norway. This is not a particular Norwegian crisis, on the contrary, it is largely a global crisis. According to the UN Secretary-General, the world lacks about 3.5 million health workers. Working to meet this need is crucial, especially with regard to mother and child. Very many deaths in mothers and children could have been avoided by competent health professionals and relatively cheap medicines. Now I'm supposed to be today's party brake. Just outside the main hall – now as we discuss this important matter – there are a lot of young people gathered outside the Grand Hotel. We heard the howls in town, and that's because Justin Bieber, the pop star from the United States, is probably at that hotel. He's going to hold a concert in Oslo today, and you can't avoid getting upset. Justin Bieber is not only known for his pop songs that delight fortice all over the world, he is also known for being a profiled opponent of self-determined abortion. There's nothing special for the United States. There's a self-determined abortion campaign in every presidential election fight. There's no particular American phenomenon. On the contrary, women's reproductive rights are under pressure throughout the world, in poor and rich countries, in the north and south, from reactionary forces and religious forces that will deprive women of their right to rule over their own bodies. Norway shall be a uncompromising defender and champion of sexual and reproductive rights internationally, and we shall put pride in that. We shouldn't see a decline in women's rights today, but we do. It is in many cases politically wild, with dramatic consequences for women's health. Women playing a central role in economic development should also say themselves, and Norway is a very good example of this with its very high level of employment. The work on sexual rights and women's rights is therefore not only a work for women and for the rights, but also for democracy, for social development and for economic growth. I am very pleased that women's and children's rights are the top priority of the government. It also means that, in the future, we need to maintain a high profile in this area of the UN, and we need to address this in our discussions with other countries, especially in countries where these rights are under pressure – and they are becoming more and more, unfortunately. Then I'll get into one more thing before I round off, and that's the climate noise. This is perhaps the greatest threat to humanity of our time and will inevitably lead to major global health challenges. It's because the world will change fundamentally if we can't stop the man-made climate change. A temperature increase of only 2 °C, which is what we're trying to limit the heat to now, will change our ecosystem, and it will change large land areas. The increase in temperature will mostly be concentrated in countries, i.e. where people live, and this will mean reduced access to food. This will mean that the availability of drinking water will become much more difficult for millions of people. It is likely to give millions of climate refugees already in our lifetime, and that in itself will be a health challenge. In addition, the risk of infection will increase in large parts of the world, and the picture of the disease could change. Therefore, it is important to focus on the health aspect and the humanitarian aspects of climate work in the future as we move into a time when climate adaptation is unfortunately as important as climate action – and climate adaptation becomes an important part of global health work in the future. We could wish it wasn't like that, but it would be like that. Finally, I want to promote the role of civil society, which is of absolutely invaluable importance both as drivers here in Norway to influence Norwegian policies and to ensure people's right to health care in many countries around the world. Norwegian non-governmental organisations have made a lot of good contributions to this message, and it would be a good idea for the government to include organisations in the further work on the message. I would also like to add that the rapporteur has done a very good job in dealing with the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1276	Global health is an important topic, and we in the Center Party therefore welcome this big message. We think it is great that Norway is the first country in the world where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is behind such a message, and we would like to thank the rapporteur for the work done in the Committee. As many have said, there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on Most Content. A lot is said here, and I'll get into some single areas eventually. The centre party is engaged in community and distribution, cohesion of resources and living conditions between social groups, between parts of the country and between rich and poor countries. Although Norway is a small country, it should be lacking that we do not take this issue seriously with our oil economy. Although global health is a relatively new and not very clearly defined concept, it is important that we have a common understanding of what it is all about: improving health for the whole world's population, reducing health inequalities and solving health problems across both national borders and sectors, that health is a global common good, that there are opportunities for growth in better health in the population, and poorer health conditions can be a threat to both prosperity and stability. It is important that we take on board that health issues have a major political significance, and it must be an important theme when the world's top leaders meet. There are many issues of global health that are important. Of course, addressing the health challenges in poor countries is most important, but it is also a matter of great concern to us. It is in our own interest to improve health problems in other countries in order to overcome infectious diseases. Today we travel more than ever, and it is not that if we just close the borders, we keep pandemics and epidemics away from Norway. Then we all have the non-infectious diseases, which in our part of the world are mostly lifestyle-related. It's important to get hold of them. Over 60 pst. of all deaths in 2008 were due to non-infectious diseases, of which 80 are pst. in low and medium-income countries. It means that non-infectious diseases are not at all reserved for the rich part of the world. Even in parts of the world with less purchasing power, they pose an increasing problem. Tobacco, alcohol and drug abuse are a global problem, and it is a major problem — not least in poor countries. International action to reduce the health problems that this entails is therefore very important. Unsunned food is very often cheaper than healthy food. As mentioned, there are also large multinational groups behind the marketing of unhealthy food, and it is also a health problem in parts of the world that we might not have believed. In those parts of the world where infectious diseases dominate, non-infectious diseases come on top. The term ‘double burden of disease’ is therefore very comprehensive for this problem. It is reinforced that health services in these countries are most often poorly developed and not accessible to large sections of the population. In this context, it is important to remember that it is our duty not to recruit health workers from poor countries who themselves are in dire need of this competence and of these people. This is mentioned in the Communication and is very important. There are a lot of things to do to improve public health in the world. It is also important to be aware that half of the world’s sick beds are covered with people with diseases related to poor hygiene. Clean water is scarce in many, many places in the world. Almost all diarrhoea deaths are caused by contaminated water, poor sanitation and poor hygiene. Here in Norway we stand for hours in the shower – and actually shower in drinking water. I got my daughter home after a year on the southern hemisphere. She got dinner – I hoped for comments and boasted about how good it was. And it came – she said: Oh, it was good – won! It was the water she had missed. It was after a year in a Western country without major water problems. We don't know how lucky we are in our part of the world. We need to do more to ensure that people in other countries can also benefit from such a good, which can prevent both diseases and unrest. We should be aware that large global companies are in the process of acquiring the rights to traditional joint properties such as water in poor countries. This is more than suspicious when the fact that people do not have access to clean water is a threat to public health in many countries. We in the Center Party are busy producing food. We're busy at home, and we're assuming that you're all aware of that. But we are also busy and have programmed that every country should have the right to produce food for its own people. We want growth in agricultural production in developing countries and poor countries. Why do I draw this up in an article on global health? Subnutrition is a cause of many diseases. It's a dilemma that it's not because there's too little food produced in the world today. We have enough to feed the population of the earth. That's the distribution of food that's not fair. Access to adequate, safe and nutritious food is a human right, according to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It is necessary for better health in poor countries. Because, in fact, drugs and treatment do not work if they are sufficiently undernourished. Today, almost a billion people are starving and suffering from malnutrition. UN Millennium Goal No. 1 is halving the number of people affected by hunger by 2015. In this global health report: ‘The government will increase agricultural aid and support international and regional processes for agricultural development and food security. [[...]] Norwegian foreign policy shall contribute to ensuring food security between and within countries. States have an obligation to work for all residents to feed themselves.» We are very pleased with this section in the Centre Party, we believe it is important and will bring it forward. Norway has for a long time been working on the problem of global health monitoring. Therefore, it may not be so much new that emerges in the message, but what is important is to put this work into a system to improve the impact of the measures being implemented. A health system covers all activities in a country that will promote better health. It concerns policy-making, administration, organisation and funding. Building up and maintaining a national health system requires each country to have a education and research sector with the capacity to train sufficient personnel with the right knowledge. But we know that many countries have a system of governance, an organization and an economy that makes them have big problems with this. This leads to a lot of misery in terms of health: weak molestation and high child mortality, to mention something. It is important that we contribute to building systems to reduce maternal and paediatric mortality and other health problems. Then we're talking about systematic and coordinated efforts over a long period of time. Finally, I just want to remind you once again how important it is that health is part of international policy. We therefore ask that our leaders address this issue as often as they can only in all international contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1334	We in the Left had really looked forward to this message, because health is an important topic in balancing differences both nationally and internationally, but also because we perceive that the government has undergone a major shift in this policy area. We expected to see the professional assessments and priorities behind it. So we were really a little disappointed that there's nothing very of it. We miss a bit of a thorough analysis of what I see as a shift from this government, from so-called horizontally divided projects to more vertically divided projects. Here, there has been a real re-prioritisation, I believe. It may be right, but I would have expected a little more reasoning for it. We have a tradition in Norway of working on horizontal assistance – working on health systems in the different countries with which we work. Under this government we see more and more a turn to vertical intervention, where we are working against special types of disease, for example. what is done in relation to the vaccine. What we've been working on in the past, namely direct support for poor countries' public services, is almost totally taken out of the poster. Rather, support is given to large, global institutions. Many of them are characterized by a more commercial way of thinking and are linked to commercial interests. The Bondevik government prioritised, first and foremost, building public health systems in poor countries and was in fact a bit critical of the commercialisation of health assistance as the international vaccine agreements, for example. GAVI, represented. We in the Left do not ignore the fact that there may be a reasonable turn that has happened, but when there was a health and assistance message, we had expected a little more explicit discussion of why this was a proper priority. There are some small sections here and there, together with three-four sides we've been able to figure out. The points 4.2.3 and 4.2.4 have some sporadic discussions of this, which I see as a pretty big distinction. The vertical projects are clearly the most effective as we assess it, in order to assess the efficiency of crowns. But it also has its drawbacks that you give priority to these things. This means that health professionals in poor countries are diverted from the daily health work and from these projects. Health workers are being removed from ‘basic’ health work locally to, for example: major vaccine projects or other major projects. I believe that is a greater priority of society outside the aid country than the Central Party is talking about when they talk about brain drain. So here, as an international community, we are giving priority to how health resources are to be used in each aid country by shifting our support to that type of project. Today, Norway does not share responsibility for any of the health systems in poor countries, whether we have at some point, as in Botswana, spent almost 30 years building up the health system they have there today. So what I'm missing is a discussion in this message of why Norway doesn't take on those priorities, and why it chooses to go into and almost prioritize within the health priorities of each country by supporting these projects. The other thing I also miss is that you don't have a slightly more critical attitude, as the Bondevik II government did, to let commercial interests go into that kind of priorities. So to the different things in the message. I believe that almost all interest groups have got their share of the message. The only thing I can't find is mental health, but maybe we can find it elsewhere. Otherwise, you have gone through all the different types of health, but the message does not discuss the priorities you have actually chosen. If you want to find the government's priorities, you have to go into the budget proposals. Then we see that the WHO, UNFPA and UNICEF are on the ground resting, while very large powers have been given to individual projects on individual diseases or on individual vaccination programmes. So I probably wanted a big message that had explained the real assessments. At least when you promise money for knowledge and research, I believe that you should also have presented here why these are the best ways to support health care. When we also see the international priorities for research and knowledge, these vaccine programmes are also the highest priority, while the broad programmes are not. So finally, I would also like to say something that Snorre Serigstad Valen mentioned, namely that there are many major health challenges in the major climate change. Climate change is likely to lead to urbanisation, and in Africa today half of the population live in cities. It poses enormous challenges in food security, garbage, water and sanitation. It is a challenge for Norwegian aid, which has traditionally concentrated on rural issues. We know that the climate challenges are going to put a lot of the old thinking we've had related to assistance to the test. Assistance will have completely new challenges with the climate challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1351	When we debated the Northern Territory Communication, the rapporteur said that the government should appreciate the opposition’s ‘wanting more of’ government policy. That, I thought, was a good summary of a good setting. This time I just want to join the case rapporteur, who says that a good message has improved. It is nice that this is going to happen in Stortinget, and I would like to congratulate the committee, and perhaps especially a very well qualified rapporteur, who has been both Minister of Health, sitting in the middle of the global health environment and has taken this message a good step forward. I am also very pleased that the communication has contributed to a thorough debate on developments in the Committee and in this Chamber. It's very important and very joyful. It was said that it was new and perhaps surprising that a foreign minister presented the message. It may be, but I think it is also a recognition of what the rapporteur said in a previous capacity, namely that we must all be ministers of health, given the challenges of the day, both in our daily lives, which we are going to try to get together where we live, and also as politicians, where we have to think across silos, and where one of the greatest obstacles to the global health impact as an instrument against poverty has been that health ministers have been isolated, and that the message that also presidents, Prime Ministers, finance ministers, foreign ministers and development ministers are health ministers has not been realised. The health sector is the place where problems that have arisen somewhere else in society, the social economy and also geographically, with climate change, as has been pointed out here, end up. Therefore, it is natural for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to also engage in this, because safety is largely about the safety of people, and health is currently a challenge for safety and human development. That's why it's not surprising that, during his visit to Oslo, Hillary Clinton is putting up to share important thoughts, I think, about the United States' thinking in the global health field, among other things. inspired by a future partnership with Norway in this area. That's an opportunity we're looking forward to exploiting. What's interesting – and I'm seeing it at the World Health Assembly last week when I made a contribution to the world's health ministers – is how wise investments in health have a major impact on the development of people, communities and national economies. If I understood the representative Myhre there that GAVI itself does not fight poverty – that may not be exactly how he should be understood, but let me take it that way – then that's exactly what GAVI is doing. GAVI contributes to economic development and economic growth by making children less ill, parents less away from work, more opportunities for education, and so we get the good spiral. I also think it was your representative Myhre really would, but it is at least an important development. I believe that the representative Skei Grande raises an important question, and I think it is an important debate she is inviting to. We have tried to answer that in the communication, but that debate can go further: Horizontal or vertical bets? In general, it means that the horizontal range of healthcare, health sector development, health professionals, capacity – is crucial for any health effort. The so-called vertical is interventions against one disease, preferably in the form of medicines, vaccines, malarian nets or whatever it may be. It's an important debate, but sometimes it can be made a false dilemma. It is not such that vertical action needs to weaken the ability to raise the horizontal. I believe that GAVI has become capable of doing so gradually, namely by helping to strengthen the ability of the health system to provide other services. The Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria now has this as a separate window in its funding — including health system development — where the fight against malaria, such as AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. malaria network strengthens the ability of the health centre to do a wide range of other things. It is not automatically, as the representative Skei Grande says, that this is about to drag people away from health – no, it can also help to pull the health system up. I also want to be skeptical about the concept of ‘commercialisation’. It is true that private actors are involved. I believe that this has contributed to a stronger focus on measurable results of the bet, but I do not see that in the GAVI, the Global Fund, mother and child effort, it is about commercialisation, as we normally understand that concept. Now to the question of rotation in Norway’s bet. It may be, and I think it is also right that we evaluate where we are betting along the way, and then we have to ask the following questions: What is most important in the world and in the country we want to help? But we also have to ask the question: What is Norway best to help with? We may have the prerequisites to help in an area of health challenges in a country that does not necessarily come to the top of the importance scale in an emergency in a country. For example, a country’s access to clean water – as it was said – will be crucial. Norway may have a few prerequisites for doing something about it, but we can help raise a global wager for vaccines that have reduced child mortality by millions and led to the survival of many, many, millions of children. These are strategic choices that Norway needs to make. I also want to say it so that the proportion of health has fallen somewhat, we have to take it with us. But there's a significant increase in dollars, and it's not that the proportion necessarily gives a proper picture of what are bets within a large health budget. There we have cleared up space for logging, energy and bets in a wide range of areas – it must also be included in the perspective. What I think we're going to see in the future is the challenges of countries to deal with the double burden of disease. It's in itself a challenge that we also have, even though we mainly master the infectious. We have seen that infectious diseases suddenly and with quite dramatic effects can also occur in our country, whether they are the AIDS epidemic or the fear of avian influenza. This will open up major political debates for national and global health, among others. on how to deal with market forces, which can deliver well on the bottom line, but poor on health statistics. The regulatory framework we have for trade should strengthen the economy – not affect health. Therefore, national and global health policies must focus on the market forces that have weakened public health as a result. It has led to the Convention on Tobacco, and similar initiatives should come in the case of alcohol, but also in the case of the salt industry, the sugar industry and other areas which currently have direct adverse health effects. I appreciate what has been said about mental health. It's an important relationship. It says in the message, but it's lifted up, and it's timely, and that's something we have to bring with it. Then we have to figure out where we can make a difference in that area. Where can we contribute through both research, investment, support for health systems? We know that mental health is often a challenge in our own health system in providing good care for vulnerable people. It may, of course, be even more difficult in poor countries. To the representative of Serigstad Valen, I would like to say something about an important relationship, namely that civil society is involved. I am very pleased with what came out during the hearing of this message, and which I have read in detail. There is a lot of good input, which again shows that there is a lot of experience and competence in Norwegian civil society on health issues in general. We have to draw alternates on that. Let me end by saying that Norway must be strategic in terms of global health. Then we have to have the ear to the ground and see where there is initiative, where our means – which are large per capita and large compared to what other countries do, but which will always be small in the big context – can be catalysing and stimulating to other rates, and can contribute to the greatest possible change in the countries we want to help. I believe that our commitment to vaccines has been. The Prime Minister now heads a commission for vital drugs for mother and child. This is going to be an important piece of work that gets important knowledge. We have advertised, taken the initiative and funded a research project on the relationship between investment in women's health and economic development. We do this in collaboration with the World Bank, the WHO, UN Women, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the medical journal The Lancet. As I said, there are also thoughts about this during Minister Clinton's visit, and Norway also wants to contribute to increasing the focus on global action against tobacco and on alcohol-related harm. Then the EEA funding is also mentioned in the notification, and also in the cancellation, and I am pleased about that. Mental health is quite prominent in some countries. The projects resulting from the EEA funds are important. We also take with us continued cooperation on foreign policy and global health. This seven-country initiative is best-performing, and we focus on the role of health when dealing with the northern dimension and partnership for health and quality of life. At all, there is a broad agenda, which goes over many policy areas, so actually more government councils could present this message, but there is an entire government that is behind it, and I am glad that we have received so broad a hearing in Stortinget – which has made a good message even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1389	Norway is channelling a significant proportion of its resources through the UN system. I am aware that changing governments have done many, and certainly good, attempts to address the effectiveness of the United Nations system and the ability to lead, govern and coordinate the significant efforts on health assistance. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see any progress in this work, in a situation where the World Health Organisation points out that an excessive proportion of the world's contributions are still being played out in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1396	When the WHO says that, it is not because of the WHO, but mainly because of the difficult follow-up at country level. What I see as the big challenge is that the United Nations channelling of funds, the United Nations share, is falling, and the share is rising through earmarked funds from countries and private sources. In my time in the World Health Organization, it was 50–50, and you wondered if you would keep the United Nations credibility if it went over 50 pst. Now it's for the WHO part 70-80 pst. Then the question is, who defines what you're betting on? Is it still the UN organisations, with a constitution and membership, or is it the private stakeholders or the individual countries that choose their things? This is a real debate, and that is why Norway has been very concerned that organisations such as UNICEF, UNDP and WHO must be present and close to the governing bodies in health assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1405	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. One of the Norwegian reasons for channelling a significant part of our aid budget bilaterally, and also mainly through the UN system, is that Norway wants better coordination. I might repeat the same question once again: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that the World Organisations are making some improvements in this area, where we see – also illustrated by the communication – that it is pointing out as a problem, or at least a challenge, that there are too many actors out there who want to put their stamps and their vignettes on their programmes. There are many examples of this, but among other things: in the current situation in Afghanistan, we see that, unfortunately, lack of coordination does not deliver optimal results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1412	It's a description of reality I share. This is one of the reasons why Norway, for example, in Afghanistan, want to channel most of its support through, for example: The World Bank's multi-beneficiary funds and not spread them over many different items, which also make it difficult to be beneficiaries. I think that the new initiatives we have talked about here today, the GAVI, the Global Fund, etc., have been more effective in producing concrete results. Are results achieved? How many more vaccines will there be? Can we follow up and look at it? It's positive. But it is true, as the representative says, that with more players – who have positive aspects in that there can be both more money and more competence – it becomes a more inconspicuous picture. So I'll come back to it again. It is rare that WHO alone is e.g. health professionals in a country, but they are therefore quality standards and standard sets for how to assist a country in different efforts. That's what we have to be involved in financing. And then we have to make sure that our projects have a good performance focus and can be followed up in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1423	I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has so clearly committed himself here in the main hall to follow up the signals from the Committee on Mental Health, and at all events placed such emphasis on the non-infectious diseases part of the global burden of disease. I think it'll be important in the future. One of the areas in which the World Health Organisation has really got something in recent years is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, the Tobacco Control Convention, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself was involved in, in another capacity. I noticed that in the speech the foreign minister said that a similar initiative should come in the field of alcohol. I thought that was interesting, because the tobacco convention is the only global health convention. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that we should be able to get something similar in terms of alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1432	I have to admit that when I said that, I thought that here is a follow-up question from the representative Højbrätten, and I was right in my intuition! So let me make it clear: whether the kind of convention we have on tobacco is the right instrument in relation to alcohol, I don't dare to conclude, because it was a very thorough analysis that led to the WHO taking the initiative of exactly this convention, which it took exactly five years to produce. My point is that I think we're going to need global driving rules to deal with the type of market forces associated with alcohol. I also mentioned – and here there may be other instruments – salt and sugar or other foods that have a significant impact on people’s health, especially when we are moving towards urbanisation of the peoples around the world. However, we have both discussed in this Chamber in the past that in the field of alcohol there is a clear need for innovation and new responses to a phenomenon that only grows on a scale, with major health consequences. So maybe such a convention might be the way to go, but it's a little early to conclude that for my sake.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1443	I'm not going to say that my intuition was that the foreign minister would answer about as non-obligatory as he now did. But I would have liked him to follow up his statement from Stortinget's pulpit with an obligation to go into this from the Norwegian side. I therefore ask again: will Norway, and the government, address the issue of alcohol and the question of a global framework for the control of the health problem of alcohol, as is the case for tobacco, negotiated through the World Health Organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1450	I don't want to be a strong opponent of such a proposal. Now, when I'm a little cautious, it's because – although the Minister of Foreign Affairs is also concerned with health and has presented this big message – I also have some respect for other government councils working with these fields and having responsibility for them. But as the representative has seen, we have been quite united in the fact that it is important to go high on the track. It is a serious phenomenon in our societies that we are facing here, and it is obvious that the means we have today – globally – are not good enough. This leads to national results that are not desirable. So I think I can say it this way: this is what we are going to look at and consider which initiatives Norway can be best placed to take in order to get tools that hold. Let me come back to the first question – if I get permission – that was about mental health and how we work best on it. We need to have a discussion about that, and I think working through the World Health Organisation – strengthening that organisation’s capacity to support health authorities in poor countries – may be as good a way to go as having many bilateral Norwegian projects in the important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1459	I guess the Council of State agrees with me that there has been a shift under this government from – as I talked about – a horizontal bet within the health sector to a more vertical bet. I agree with the Council of State that it doesn't have to go beyond the horizontal that you have a bet on the vertical, but it can. A small part of what I think is weak about the message is that it does not discuss exactly that, and discusses what measures you can take to prevent this bet on single diseases — bet on single programmes — from undermining what is built up by a good health system in a country. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: does he not see that it can have such effects, and what does the government do with its efforts to prevent it from having such effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1468	If a shift is right? I see, at least, that there has been a development in this direction, with broad support in Stortinget. This also happened under the government of Bondevik II, when there was an escalation, for example. with support for GAVI through the good budget that improved – according to the representative, Højbräten – because it increased support there. I think that was also because the then government saw that this was effective. Norway was well positioned, strategically positioned to make a good effort. Then I agree with the representative: it can lead to that, and it may be right that the message has not discussed those dangers in sufficient detail and what we can do to prevent them. In that case, there's a debate we're going to be engaged in. My experience when we have supported these programmes has been that we in Norway have been very concerned that there must be mechanisms to ensure that health systems are strengthened in line with capacity, by improving vaccines, equipment and other things. But I'm fully aware that we need to have a professional and practical debate on this, and if the message can be a start to it, that's a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1474	The cord shift is over. The President has the great pleasure to wish the State Council Heikki Holmås welcome to Stortinget. As far as the President is aware, this is the first time he is going to the pulpit of the Storting – it is not at all, but at least as a Council of State! Welcome, and welcome to a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1479	Thank you very much for very pleasant words. At least I intend to follow up that cooperation in a good way, and I will begin by saying a thousand thanks to the rapporteur for a good job of sewing this together to a good setting. I agree with the rapporteur's clarification that although there are different comments in a good number of areas, they only show the shades of what is a broad consensus, an agreement on priorities in the health field internationally – and the link between national and international. Last week I was in Niger. There the average woman has seven children. Half of all girls who are 15 years old are married and have given birth to their first child. It shows some of the enormous challenge for women and the work of ensuring that women have the ability to control their own bodies – what we call sexual and reproductive health. Sexual and reproductive health — and rights — is something we should find a better and more precise and popular name for. But this shows some of the enormous challenges that lie here, and what an important work it is to back up the work for equality. It is obvious that women who are in Niger and who give birth to many children are in a particularly vulnerable position — both women and young people — in an area that has just been affected by the Snorre Serigstad Valen, namely, climate change: drought strikes, poorer nutritional conditions, and there is less opportunity to eat. I met women who did not have milk in their breasts for both their children – twins – and who thus ended up having severely malnourished children. We are doing a job to ensure that the overall health policy we need to pursue includes both nutrition policy and a policy to ensure that we have access to something as elementary as water. But it also points to the importance that there will be a greater and greater link between the climate challenges we have and health policy. But let me start by talking a little bit about sexual and reproductive health and rights, because this is a central field for us. That's also the priority of Stortinget. As Højbråten was inside his post, and as also mentioned in the message, it is about that 40 pst. by the children who die at an early stage could have been rescued if we had taken better action. It's about nutrition that I was into. It is also essential to provide birth care in these countries, which ensures that children are taken care of. I also visited Ethiopia, there over 90 pst. by the children are born on the ground floor, outside the tight institutions that have to be there to follow up kids properly in order to avoid their death. At the same time, it shows very clearly how one has to have an overall approach to this. If you're going to be able to do something for the women who have so many children, you have to make sure that they also have fewer children, that they have the opportunity to make the choices that make them fewer children, and that give them a better chance to take care of the children who grow up. The whole health message draws up a number of different grips that we do. We have great progress in the treatment of HIV and AIDS, we have ambitious global goals that we're going to be able to follow up to eliminate mother-to-child infection by 2015, and we're using the international arenas we have to be able to follow this up properly. At the same time, I want to highlight the distribution perspective – which Eva Kristin Hansen was also involved in his contribution. In Aravind Adiga’s book ‘White Tiger’, the main character says that: ‘My village has no hospital. But it has three foundations for three different hospitals, laid by three different politicians in connection with three different election campaigns." It shows that lack of access to health is the reality in too many poor countries. Essentially, healthcare is about distribution. Two weeks ago, African Progress Party, with Kofi Annan at its head, had a proposal that showed that there has been development and strong growth in a number of countries, but growth has not been followed up by equal access to fundamental rights for all. This is important for us to do something about. If we're going to get development for everyone, we need justice. To conclude, Else Michelet has said that it is better to be rich and healthy than poor and sick. At least this big message is a first step on the way to getting more people healthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1515	I'm glad that the Council of State used its first occasion in the Storting to mention the situation in Ethiopia. It has been under strong debate for a long time. The predecessors of the Council of State were very enthusiastic about the development of Ethiopia and accepted Ethiopia's dictator, Meles Zenavi, and gave him much praise, not least for the economic progress. But when the progress is at 10 pst. And the starting point is almost zero, it's not that impressive anyway. The current Council of State is definitely right in saying that economic growth in, among other things, Ethiopia definitely does not benefit the entire population. Then my question is: will the Council of State change the government's policy and now be more critical of the dictator in Addis Ababa, and thus force the reforms that we all want for that country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1522	It's true that I visited Ethiopia two to three weeks ago, and then we just had conversations with both authorities and oppositionals and with more people working with human rights. We believe from the government that the growth and progress in Ethiopia are positive, and something we have to back up below. We do that together with several other governments, among other things. The British. We are aiming to develop the country more strongly, and the authorities are also inviting us into a strategy for stronger development. There's a green growth that I think can be positive, and that will lead to more people getting the opportunity to feed themselves. It is important that the growth comes, as the representative is about, for the benefit of everyone. At the same time, we believe that as we step up assistance to the country, it is quite reasonable and right to step up the dialogue and work on human rights in the country. I can tell the representative that I met with the Diaspora from Ethiopia, in Norway, at the latest today, just to follow up this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1529	I will also be allowed to take the opportunity to congratulate Holmås on his appointment as State Council. I am not going to bother the new Minister of Aid, who is relatively fresh, with his predecessors' statements on the importance of capitalism, etc., but I am going to ask the Council of State questions about the need for health workers. It has been said in the statement that the world lacks 4.3 million health workers in order to address the gigantic challenges ahead of one – which I know government and big business are very, very busy. The message is not so very clear on what ambitions and goals the government has. But can the Council of State respond to whether the government really has any concrete plans and objectives for the training of health workers in the context of aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1538	I am pleased that the representative addresses the question of health workers. There is no doubt, as the debate here instead between Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre and Trine Skei Grande pointed out, that both sides of the policy must obviously be present, both building capacity in a country and operating with the efforts we have, among other things. on prevention within vaccine programmes. Education is something that must be governed by the countries themselves. But I noticed, for example. was in Liberia on Wednesday last week, that the president told me that they have six surgeons in a country as large as the whole of Norway. There's no doubt about it, they say, that they need help to follow up the work of training more personnel. But building up whole systems, backing up under the country's own strategies to build education systems, is one thing that I want to look at, because I think it's absolutely necessary to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1545	I am pleased that our new development minister gave such emphasis to the fight against infant and maternal mortality. In this context, I would like to stress, as is also apparent from the Committee's position, that one of the most important means of achieving the first birth of young women, and thus saving the lives of very many women, is to offer education to girls. It's like a young girl has five times more likely to die in pregnancy than a mature adult woman when she gets her first child. My question goes on the other side of the fight against maternal mortality and infant mortality, namely the role of civil society, which is also strongly underlined by the Committee. Here are proposals to cut civil society, and I would simply like to ask: will the new Minister of Development increase the role of civil society, or will he reduce the role of civil society and non-governmental organisations in development policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1552	I believe that civil society has a crucial role to play in development policy in different areas. One is to do the job of providing services to each country. It can be done by civilians, or it can be done by others, such as through the UN organisations and other major international organisations. We've been doing that a lot in recent years, and that's partly because we think it has an important value in itself, but also because ensuring coordination of work and having fewer actors to which each country has to deal is very important. I find it difficult to answer simply yes or no to that particular question. I have no ambitions to cut in the role of civil society, because I believe that civil society also has a crucial role because it has an additional dimension, namely to help build civil societies in other countries of the world. The fact that we have a strong civil society is crucial for democracy in Norway, and I see some people attack civil society from here. I believe that is a misguided strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1559	I would also like to welcome the Council of State and express the joy that women's health and reproductive health are so important. But I want to ask a slightly more ideological question about, as I said in my post, this distortion we see in the government in the field of health policy. The Bondevik II Government expressed some skepticism and demeasurement in the case of major entry by commercial operators into some of these aid projects, including: GAVI is, of course, a purely public-private cooperation project where public and private groups together to achieve an objective. SV is very critical of public–private cooperation within its borders. What is the view of public-private cooperation regarding health projects and assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1568	Now I think Trine Skei Grande is a little bit crooked in his approach here. It's not true that we're skeptical about cooperation between the private and the public, but we're very, very sceptical about the private to borrow money to implement projects that the public should finance. Now it's like in a lot of the projects we're talking about here, we're just picking up the best in the collaboration between the private and the public, that's by allowing private people to set up with a lot of knowledge and other things that the public doesn't have, and the public is making money through the whole program we're implementing. I think that is a good way to cooperate between the private and the public. That's what we're going to do in the future. At the same time, I have great respect for the fact that Trine Skei Grande – and I see the whole committee – is interested in continuing the debate, on how we will in the future ensure that we are able to make a big effort where Norway can make a difference by having a good position, that we have an initiative, that we can participate and set up an initiative, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in it, while at the same time ensuring that it is the national ownership that maintains the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1576	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1579	The Government has provided a major communication addressing challenges and providing clear priorities for a comprehensive Norwegian global health policy up to 2020. Areas of action include the health and rights of women and children, prevention and human safety through health. To achieve the objectives, strengthening health systems with equal access to healthcare will be central to all. Health objectives need to be better integrated into foreign and development policy. The global situation today is that health services are available to a rich minority but not to a poor majority. In order to ensure access to basic health services for the population, economic and social cohesion is important globally and nationally, as well as the development of social security systems for distribution. The funding of healthcare is closely linked to the country’s ability to levy taxes. Furthermore, demand for cuts in the public expenditure of developing countries from international institutions such as the World Bank and the Monetary Fund will lead to a reduction in healthcare and education provision. This must be taken into account in negotiations on economic restructuring packages. In order to ensure better health services in poor countries, increased political emphasis is needed on the health workforce crisis. In several countries, education is inadequate, and there are too few who are trained. In many places, the wages and working conditions of health professionals are very poor, and many apply to other countries where there is better pay and employment. For poor countries such as Malawi and Tanzania, there may be other countries in the region, such as South Africa or Botswana, or Europe and the United States. It is therefore important in the aid policy to contribute to increasing the recruitment and training of health professionals. It is also important to focus more on good working conditions where health, the environment and safety are taken care of by individual workers and to provide decent pay. This will improve the recruitment of the profession and maintain the necessary skills and personnel. In this context, international coordination, national plans and good cooperation with national authorities are important. The Communication emphasises the inclusion of the right to basic health care in bilateral dialogue with the authorities of cooperation countries and in the planning of assistance projects. It is important in this regard that harmful traditional practices such as sexual mutilation, forced marriage, and pregnancy are also addressed for young girls. Here, knowledge of health damage, information to traditional leaders and communities as well as education for young girls is important. To achieve the Millennium Goals, the importance of equality is central. It is important to use reproductive health legislation to ensure women’s access to prevention, protection against early marriage, violence and sexual mutilation. Furthermore, family planning and qualified maternity care are essential for improving female and parturition. This must also include the right to safe abortion and access to treatment if complications arise. In many countries, people die of diseases that could easily have been treated here at home because we have been vaccinated or have access to drugs. In order to prevent child mortality in developing countries, therefore, the government’s commitment to vaccines has been important. It is important now that Norway also contributes to the development of new vaccines, such as: tuberculosis and malaria, as compared to HIV/AIDS vaccines. Furthermore, it will continue to be important to focus on the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. Information on the spread of infection must be provided everywhere; at school, at work and in the community. It is absolutely necessary to ensure low prices of AIDS medicine, so that the infected can access it, regardless of the thickness of the wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1596	Before the president announces the next speech, she has been made aware by the representative Skei Grande that the state council Heikki Holmås has expressed that her approach to the question was «bad». The President will note that there may be more parliamentary expressions to use, as the Council of State, of course, knows very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1599	In my many years of work both in health care and in politics, I have been strongly concerned with the normative basis for our healthcare. In the Christian People’s Party, we are committed to a human vision based on the fact that we are all created with an inalienable human dignity. The right to life is therefore fundamental. Deepest, we have an ethical responsibility to take care of each other. In health care, we are given a special responsibility to take care of human lives, prevent and treat injuries or diseases and improve public health. After World War II, the UN has developed a system of universal human rights. Important ethical principles have thus been incorporated into legal conventions that oblige the governmental powers – and give us rights as individuals. In the UN Declaration on Human Rights, the right to life stands out as the highest human right. The declaration anchors the principle of right in a human vision that recognises all human beings' inherent human dignity. Article 3 specifies this as follows: ‘Every person has the right to life, freedom and personal security.’ In this right statement, countries are charged with primary responsibility for their own citizens. The UN Convention on Social, Economic and Cultural Rights establishes the obligation for countries to take action to reduce infant and infant mortality and to promote the healthy development of the child. States are required to prevent, treat and control any disease and to ensure all health care and care under disease. States are required to take action to achieve these objectives, but international law does not respond equally clearly to how best to implement these obligations. Here, there is a considerable scope for both political and professional judgement in the design of health systems, strategies and instruments. We also see this in reproductive health. Specific conditions for family planning or abortion are, for example: not incorporated in any Convention on Human Rights. However, as in all other treatments, it is the responsibility of health care that services are performed in a professionally sound and safe manner. The guidelines for work on reproductive health were discussed and confirmed when the Stortinget addressed the women’s rights and gender equality report in 2008. The principles here are firm. At the time, the Foreign Affairs Committee also addressed the problem of selective abortion, which is widespread in some Asian countries. It is unacceptable that girls are aborted on a large scale because parents want a boy. Our counter-strategy must be to use legislation and information measures to combat selective abortion. We need to ensure women access to family planning and qualified birth support. We must protect girls from early marriages, violence and sexual mutilation. Child marriage practices and forced marriages must be countered, as many people have been involved. We need to discuss this in bilateral talks with partner countries. Finally, it is about the protection of life and respect for human dignity. Norway has a lot to contribute to international health work. In our country, we have a well-developed health care system that is accessible to everyone. Health services are in principle free of charge. We are offered help by health professionals from birth to a natural death. Yes, if there are complications during pregnancy, with today's technology we can save lives long before a natural birth occurs after nine months of pregnancy. Finally, the Christian People's Party believes that efforts for education and health are among the main tasks of our international assistance. Both go straight to the core of the work to make people and nations able to become free and self-held. Knowledge is needed to make good choices for yourself and his family. Health is needed in order to be able to do value-creating work. Therefore, knowledge and health are keys to healthy development in all communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1623	There are many themes to be addressed in this debate. But after a weekend of dramatic television images from Syria and meeting with the brutality of a civil war at its worst, you get an idea of how small a human life is from – in my view – a mad man’s brutal struggle for power over his own people. Through the TV route, we met a life-saving mother who prayed for her and her ten children’s future – a desperate cry for help to win the fight for freedom and democracy to the outside world. We just have to be fellow humans to understand what such experiences create from both mental and physical suffering, which these children bring into their adult life. Through what is happening in different war venues, one understands that the term ‘global health’ also contains the madness of war as part of its diverse content. Good health — both physical and mental — is the very foundation of providing a better everyday life for individuals and the communities to which they belong. We have many challenges ahead of us, and there we can only be better – the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the President-in-Office and many others who have made contributions before me have been involved in several areas. In addition, more have also mentioned that we can improve, in cooperation with other donor countries and with civil society, so that we can coordinate our assistance so that it is as effective as possible. And we must, not least, work more closely with multilateral organisations, such as WHO, UNICEF and GAVI. At the end of the day, it must be allowed to pay tribute to the rapporteur's efforts in the GAVI, which I know is appreciated by many. I think it is reassuring to read that the Storting is behind the government's clear signals in this area, and that this work should be continued. The government also invites further cooperation with the Norwegian non-governmental organisations – an invitation I am convinced will be received with thanks. They do a formidable job in many arenas, as we experienced the members of the family and culture committee when we were visiting Vietnam and Cambodia last year. Like this weekend's television pictures from Syria, my mental image of Vietnam was a picture of war – the little girl who ran naked along the road after a napalmbombetokt, and the horror we could read in her face. Today, my image has been replaced by a Vietnam that is in strong economic progress, where Norway has contributed in many areas. Even though the people live in a democracy at a distance, the main impression is good because they experience an increased standard of living. But the Vietnam War is not over. Even 40 years after the war it takes life. 2.25 million. tonnes of class bombs were dropped across the country. Every day, people are maimed and killed by these bombs, and many of them are children. There is a great international effort to remove them, and one of the actors is Norwegian People's Aid with their Mining Teams. I'm proud of what they do in Vietnam and elsewhere, but it's especially to meet them and hear them tell about their job out in the field, where their job can make the difference between life and death. In such a daily life, children shall live their lives. It was improperly a little special when we met a football ballag, where it wasn't just tactics that were discussed in front of the fight; pictures of class bombs were also theme, so that the children could separate these from other objects. These are the everyday lives of these children today – 40 years after the war. The rest of the Vietnam War is also alive in Cambodia. There we met representatives from Tromsø Mineskadezentrum, an offer developed by the doctors Mats Gilbert and Hans Husum, who have been involved in building up an offer to strengthen the knowledge of the local health care system – in line with the leadership of this announcement – so that the population could be better able to deal with those injured by landmines, and give them a better life, from a passive life to an active life, where they could once again be with and care for their family. Tromsø Mining Damage Centres have also contributed to better health care and increased knowledge of health to the population out in the woods and in the bush, and we know that many lives have been saved through the minimum knowledge they have contributed to giving. As a nation, we must bet on many arenas and many areas in order for the basic health system in the poor countries of the world to function. We have a big challenge, but what is done, and what is done, gives hope that one day we will succeed. We can just get better. Perhaps the mother whom we heard yell out her prayer for freedom and democracy in Syria, may wake up to a everyday life where it has happened. Perhaps the newly-baked parental killers in Malawi, as Myhre's representative told us, will experience watching their newborn children grow up – thanks to measles vaccines and other diseases that can easily be treated. Through its decision today, the Storting show once again solidarity with the world around us. It deserves the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1651	It is a very important message that the government has provided to Stortinget. It addresses challenges that provide clear priorities for a comprehensive Norwegian global health policy by 2020. There are three areas of action outlined: the health of women and children, the prevention of disease and the promotion of human security, i.e. health contradictions that need to be integrated into foreign and development policy. All of these are important and wise bet areas. Health issues, both national and international, have a major political significance. Both rich and poor countries have a high potential for growth when it comes to improving the health situation. Worsening health status is a threat to both prosperity and stability. In Norway, we're lucky. Relatively, we have good health, high life expectancy and a well-developed health care system. Therefore, it is important that we, as a nation, also take responsibility and are a driver for improving the health situation of people in other countries around the world with a completely different health situation than ours. Therefore, it is important that we base global health on foreign policy and our development policy. In Norway, we have just received our own public health law. One of the main points of the law is that we commit ourselves to thinking public health in all political decisions, at all levels and within all social sectors. It is important to have the same principle internationally: political decisions at all levels — including in foreign policy — must always be fundamental to man, namely the right to health and health. Health is an individual responsibility in the debate. Yes, it is, but it is also a social responsibility. In poor countries today, people live shorter than in rich countries. The fight against poverty is, in general, a health fight. Health has become a class issue, and global health is about fair distribution in large letters. There is a lot I could have said about positive actions in the message. I want to underline the first priority objective – to mobilise for the health of women and children. This is an important continuation, and it is particularly important to continue to focus on children. We have to start with children, and we have to end with this bet. 30 pst. in the case of low-income and medium-income countries, the case of a disease which affects children. Malnutrition and misnutrition are an important underlying reason. I am pleased that the government underlines the principle of food security in the message, and that one in committee notes underlines the importance of increasing investment in direct nutritional measures aimed at mothers and children, with a documented impact on child mortality. Both vaccination programmes and the fight against infectious diseases such as AIDS and tuberculosis are very important, but we must never forget the basic – working for better hygiene conditions, clean water and reducing food shortages and malnutrition. Saving children with, for example, children only helps in the short term. anti-pulmonary medicine if we do not also remove the reason that the children are so reduced that they become susceptible to infections — simply to reduce food shortages and malnutrition. I am also pleased that the Committee refers to this increase that we expect in non-infectious diseases. It is not to be avoided that these must be given a stronger priority than hitherto in global health policy. Psychiatric health is a health area with alarming large spreads, and it is good that the Committee raises this field. Alcohol and drugs are also an area of growth that we need to take seriously, and the fight against drugs as well. It is also extremely important that one in global health policy is working against the bias in access to medicines. The pharmaceutical industry is not a nice uncle, and invests in the drugs that pay off to those who can pay. 80 pst. When it comes to cervical cancer, we find it in poor countries, while the vaccine comes to us in the rich countries. Finally, a comment on health shortages in the world. We will not be able to do that in Norway. We have a big message about well-being training, and I am glad that our moral and ethical duty is not to recruit health professionals from countries that need more of this. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that all ministers should be ministers of health. A socio-medical founder said that politics is ‘nothing but medicine at all’. I want to congratulate the government on this message, and find the Minister of Health in all ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1677	This is an exciting and interesting debate to listen to, and it is informative and with many good speeches. The government's message is also interesting and gives a good description of the work done at various arenas internationally. At the same time, I also see that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has done a great deal of work to provide supplementary information and assessments, and I am pleased that the Committee is gathering so widely. I noticed with pleasure the great rose of the case rapporteur, who has made much of the premise for the vote. But after reading the vote and especially the message, I need to make a few comments, when we first have the debate here. In our own country, it would be unthinkable to provide a comprehensive health notice without including mental health. We are past the time when this was overlooked in silence and overlooked. But in the government's big news about global health, mental health was forgotten again. The loss is particularly incomprehensible because the World Health Organisation has strongly encouraged the various countries in the world to focus on mental health efforts. According to WHO, mental health constitutes 13 pst. of the global burden of disease. 150 million people worldwide suffer from depression. Fortunately, however, there was a great deal of attention to this, and a number of organisations and also health professionals made the Committee aware of it, and the Committee has taken it in a good way, so that it is fully discussed in the section. The second point I made was really the following: What effect does this communication – with quite overall priorities and general priorities – have on practical health assistance policy? Health-related measures are part of Norway’s assistance to developing countries, the management of EEA support schemes and our bilateral support to North-West Russia. I noticed the involvement of both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development, both stressing the importance of the communication – and to the extent of the vote – and also the debate we have here. That is why I also expect it to be followed up well in the further work in the future. Recently, the government sent out a new big message about the EEA funds, which is why I looked through the message. There were a lot of nice pictures and statistics there. I looked through it quite quickly, but I found the chapter on health, under the heading «Health and Children». I could not find any trace of any of the priorities raised in the message – which naturally were not in the setting, because it came later – but the message has been submitted quite recently. It's a brief mention, and I got stuck with the feeling that the management of EEA funds continues just as before. Then there may be good reasons why this should be done, because the countries receiving EEA funds are probably different from the world’s poorest country. But a reflection I'm making is that the big picture should have been more nuanced as regards the priorities to apply to Norwegian efforts in different countries and regions, precisely because the health challenges and the context vary. The second reflection I am making is that it must be obvious that the priorities adopted by the Stortinget today, with the additions to the adjustment, will lie at the heart of the job and when the policy is designed. Finally, I cannot avoid touching as far as I can within the post of Snorre Serigstad Valen. He's referring to Justin Bieber. I can't say that I'm a big fan of Justin Bieber musically, but I have to say that out of Snorre Serigstad Valen's posts there are good reasons to be that for political reasons – because I want to make it clear that self-determined abortion is no human right. The right to life is a human right. Self-determined abortion is a controversial issue that Norway should exercise caution around and at least not impose on other countries. That is why I am pleased that what is clearly lifted up by several people in this room is family planning, sexual guidance and qualified maternity care. There are important and correct measures that Norway contributes to and that Norway will contribute to reducing child mortality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1688	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad referred to the EEA funds. We will come back to this when we deal with the notification for the autumn, but we need to be aware that the management of EEA funds is based on agreements with each country, so that the adjustments that may be desirable need to be made in the next programming period. It's important to have that basis. This is a message of which there is a broad consensus. It has been thoroughly reflected in the debate. It's not unnatural. It is also a force for government policy in the future. At the same time, this broad consensus can cover the disagreements that lie there, because they are there. This can be seen when you come to the Special Note of the Advancement Party. There the party really undermines much of what they share, both in the Committee's joint comments and in the majority's comments with the remainder of the opposition, the few places where there are special comments. This is a strange double communication from the Progress Party. The political message of the special note is essentially that health is the responsibility of individuals. Health services are the responsibility of each country – the sentence. The country’s obligation to provide health services to the population cannot or must not be transferred to international organisations or aid providers, says the Progress Party. And why? Well, because the social contract between a country's inhabitants and its authorities is such that the authorities are responsible to their inhabitants and not to the international donor community, the party says. This is how a party speaks that is not willing to see a context in things. Of course, each of us has responsibility for our own health. Of course, every country has the responsibility to build up good health services for its citizens. But we also have a responsibility for each other, as individuals and as countries. Illness is contagious. Therefore my responsibility goes further than to myself. Pandemies can be a global threat. This is why countries also have a responsibility to the international community and to each other. Then all the other parties in this room believe that we also have an even greater responsibility, which goes beyond ourselves as individuals and as a nation, namely a responsibility to help countries and people who have not been so lucky to be part of the prosperity development we have had will have the same opportunity. It's called solidarity. Therefore, health is an important part of Norwegian foreign policy. I understand that it is not useful to appeal to the Progress Party to show solidarity with others and poorer people. But this is also about self-interest. Many health challenges are global. They can hit us differently, for example. in the case of pandemics, which we have had a couple of hanging over us in recent years, and which were probably averted because the WTO intervened resolutely in time – but also in the form of disease migration due to an ever-growing tourism. International bodies can therefore be crucial. But it assumes that countries feel a commitment also to that path, to the international community, a commitment, therefore, the Progress Party believes that countries should not have. But good health in a population is also important for something else, which the Progress Party should understand, namely the productivity of the population, which the Foreign Minister also pointed to, among other things. in connection with GAVI. The Progress Party itself says in its special note that it is important for poor countries to be integrated into the global economy so that they can develop a robust economy, an export-oriented business and create growth and better health for all. Yeah, that's right. Good health is a very important piece in this development. Therefore, international health policies are also good development policies. If solidarity is a bad reason for the Progress Party for us to feel responsibility beyond ourselves and our own borders, then they can chew on it: when poor countries generate economic growth, we get more markets to export our goods and products to. It may be motivating that the Progress Party can also see the value of seeing health as a global common good and a right people most — including in poor countries — have for their society, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1709	First, I would like to comment on what Svein Roald Hansen said in his speech. In fact, I believe that he speaks against better knowledge or was not present during the post to Peter N. Myhre, who so clearly explained where the Progress Party stood, and where he drew a picture of how fully clear we are about the situation worldwide, and that global health is also something the Progress Party is betting on. I'm actually getting a little provoked when the representative Hansen makes such claims. He makes it sound like we're a bunch of egoists, who do nothing but think about our own woe and well, and don't sacrifice them out there a thought, which is completely wrong, and which gives a completely wrong impression of the job done in the Progress Party as well. I really didn't intend to take the word, but I would do it anyway. This has been a very good debate. It has been focused on a number of things, including: abortion, which I react a little bit to. The representative, Ms Bavøy, spoke of selective abortion of girls, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. It made me think about the situation in China, where you drown newborn babies at birth, because they have the wrong sex. We're not talking about 50 years back in time, but we're talking about 2012. It's not really all right to think about that situation either. I came from Albania on Saturday. I was there in connection with a mission in the Council of Europe. There were awfully many young children who were street children. They were dirty. Little girls all the way down to the age of five went and beg alone. There were girls of the age of 12 to 14 who went and wore their own little babies and beggars. Albania has not been a country Norway has given a significant priority, unfortunately. But stories about corrupt health care, where you have to pay both doctor and pharmacy to get treatment at all, tell us that we should perhaps look more closely at land in Europe. I also want to go so far about this with mental health. I think this is a very under-priority area. It doesn't help if you have a whole body if you have a big wound on the soul. We know that many people use sexualized violence in war and conflict, we know that many child soldiers never receive follow-up, that there are a lot of people living with trauma, and they don't get very productive if they don't get treatment for their traumas – whether they've seen their own being killed, or they've helped kill. So I believe and hope that both the Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will give this much more priority – and I was actually quite reassured when I heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs. And to Svein Roald Hansen: So I can – once again – assure him that we are also solidarity in global health.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1729	Let me first thank my co-representatives who have taken part in this debate and who have contributed to making it such a good, nuanced and comprehensive debate for the basis for Norwegian action in the future on health issues internationally. I think the debate underlines what the vote also shows that we agree on the main lines. And I'm particularly pleased that a total accumulation supports the raising of mental health that the Committee has initiated. When I ask for the floor here, it is because there were a few things in the debate that I would like to comment on. The representative of Trine Skei Grande made it — in a series of articles and replies — a point of criticising Norway’s commitment to global initiatives, so-called vertical initiatives, and put in place a strong contrast between it and the horizontal — broader — focus on health services in countries. It is an important debate. But there will be a quick academic debate when you know that Norway, through the investment in the Global Fund, on GAVI and similar initiatives, has helped save millions of children’s lives – children who would otherwise face the safe death. What would the option be to start Gavi in 2000? Well, it would be to continue a trend where the proportion of children vaccinated every year would go down instead of increase. So the representative Skei Grande makes it so that the government of Bondevik should have opposed this development. Where in the world did she get that? I was a member of that government, and I can't see that she has any coverage to say this – that you had discussions about emphasising, etc., is a completely different matter. So GAVI started in 2000, and in four of these years, during GAVI's lifetime, the Bondevik government ruled the country and supported – every year, even in budgetary conciliation with parties represented here – this effort. So Skei Grande says that when you put your money on such initiatives, you subtract health professionals from basic local health services. What does she think vaccines are? I can't imagine a more basic, local health service than vaccinating. When I'm out there and I see this happening in practice, it's not in highly specialized clinics in the capitals that the vaccination is going on – it's under the trees in the roadless districts where the mothers bring their children. If there's something basic, local health care, it's just that. What we see is that mothers – more than anyone – know that they need to vaccinate their children. Therefore, vaccination is something that brings other health services — into a local health centre, whether it is a building or under a tree. So Skei Grande says this is a commercialization. Yes, once again, what is the alternative – leave it to the market? If the market continued to grow in this area, it would continue to take 15 years from the availability of a vaccine in the rich part of the world until it became available to the poorest. Now, with new vaccines for pneumonia, we see that time is reduced to one year. If the market were allowed to rule without such cooperation, public–private, some vaccines would not have been developed at all, because the market is large, but it is low in purchasing power. So Norway, together with some other countries, enters and corrects this market error by supporting the long-termity and predictability of the market. Thus, we have received vaccines against diseases such as diarrhoea and pneumonia, which largely kill poor countries — countries that would not have them at all if it had not been for public–private cooperation. So I have to say that it is possible that it is better left-wing policy to have public-private cooperation on the road than on health, but at least I can say that it is good, Norwegian policy – it has given good results – and that is something that I can say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we are fully behind also in the time ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1747	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1761	The size has now debated in depth the need for Norwegian action on global health issues. The proposal before us here is linked to the broader justification. It does not therefore have to be repeated in this case. However, I would like to stress that when a unanimous committee recommends the government's proposal for funding in the future by the Secretariat of the Northern Dimension, which is about the partnership for quality of life and health, it is because we believe it is well worth Norway to invest in this type of cooperation, both for health policy reasons and because this is an arena where Norway meets its major neighbour in the East, Russia, in the same way as the EU and Iceland. This is therefore a quite unique foreign policy arena, as well as the importance of cooperating on the content of what this partnership addresses. We in the Committee believe that it is well worth spending money on a secretariat for this partnership, because we believe that it is in Norway's broad interest to participate actively in this. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1770	I just want to say – for the record too – that it is important what we have up here for discussion. I join the representative's review of the Høybråten. The northern dimension is an equivalent partnership between the EU, Russia, Norway and Iceland. The Health Partnership is now one of four such partnerships, together with environment, transport and logistics – which we have discussed earlier today – and culture. Active participation in the Northern Dimension is in line with the government’s desire to strengthen cooperation in regional forums in the Northern Areas, as outlined in the Report. St. 7 for 2011–2012, Northern areas Vision and instruments. Norwegian support for the Health Partnership is an example of the follow-up to this message and also of the notification we have just discussed. We are particularly interested in the work of the Health Partnership on alcohol, drugs and tobacco, by leading a working group for this, a group of experts. Russia is the Vice-Chairman of this group. It again illustrates the potential for cooperation with Russia. The work on alcohol, drugs and tobacco is an example in areas where, in the light of people-to-people cooperation in the region, it is also of Norwegian interest that the other Member States in the northern dimension strengthen their prevention measures. At the same time, professional insights can be provided in this area from the other countries. This is an extension of one of the cooperation arrangements in the north, which Norway welcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1793	A week ago, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defense, and I attended the NATO Summit in Chicago. Afghanistan was one of the main themes of the meeting. The participants were also President Karzai and all the contributing countries to ISAF, the International Security Assistance Force. The Heads of State or Government noted that the transfer of security responsibilities from the ISAF team to the Afghan security forces is as planned. This implies a final closure of the NATO-led ISAF operation by the end of 2014. The summit concluded that although we are in a break-down period for military efforts, there will also be a need for some international military involvement in Afghanistan in the post-2014 period. The post-2014 military effort will consist of a significantly smaller strength, focusing on advice, training and support. This is in line with Afghan wishes. We are facing three important processes. The first is the gradual transfer of security responsibilities to Afghan security forces. This means concluding the mission undertaken by the International Military Stabilisation Force, mandated by the United Nations Security Council in December 2001. The second process is the important long-term development cooperation between Afghanistan and the international community, with the framework now to be established for the post-2014 period. The third process is to find a political solution in which, hopefully, all Afghan groups will see fit to promote their interests through a broad national dialogue. These three processes — the military engagement, civil development cooperation and the work on a political solution — will be the main themes of this presentation, which will address the thread of the inter-pelling debate on developments in Afghanistan on 29 November 2011 and the foreign policy presentation on 14 February this year. First of all, a situation picture and an assessment of ground development in Afghanistan: there is no doubt that the country is facing — and will continue to face — significant challenges in the coming years. The safety situation is complex and difficult. In parts of the eastern provinces, the Taliban and other rebel groups have territorial control; there are areas where insurgents are carried out on the basis of bases in Pakistan. The news picture shows suicides, civilian losses, road bombs and competing warlords. In April of this year we received large and coordinated attacks against targets in the capital and east of the country. The security situation causes major problems for humanitarian actors and non-governmental organisations with access in vulnerable areas. On the assistance side, the results are not as good as we could have hoped. This is partly due to the fact that government structures are still weak — yes, at local level almost non-existent — and partly to the fact that, at times, corruption has been and is significant. Corruption is a major challenge in Afghanistan, which on the Transparency International list is country no. 180 of 183. The implementation of Norwegian assistance is therefore a challenge. It is the responsibility of the Afghan Government to combat all forms of corruption. We have taken a number of measures to reduce the risk of Norwegian aid being subject to corruption. However, the situation on the ground — in particular the safety situation — makes it difficult to ensure a proper follow-up to all projects in the field. We therefore strengthen the requirements for Afghan authorities and other beneficiaries of assistance, and we cooperate closely with other donors – including the UN and the World Bank – in order to have the best possible follow-up and control systems. This does not mean that the risk of corruption is gone — but we are reducing it. Furthermore, we see violations of human rights in Afghanistan, and we are all particularly aware of the very difficult conditions that Afghan women are living under in the country, which is also documented in a photo exhibition at the Nobel Peace Centre these days. But in the midst of the flow of such bad and worrying news, it is important to look up and see long-term trends. The image is not completely black. I have experienced this through visits to the country and in meetings with representatives of Afghan authorities, local leaders, human rights defenders, representatives of women's organisations and civil society. The representatives of the Storting have even met several of these same spokesmen and women during their visits. This type of direct contact and the support they express are important. There is a different Afghanistan from what is often described in the debates, that the commitment is not worth the effort. It is important to state that much has become better than it was in Afghanistan. Looking forward to the post-2014 period, the main challenge will be to ensure the sustainability of the results achieved by the Afghans and the international community. Norway will therefore remain committed. Last month, Afghan Minister of Education Farooq Wardak visited Norway. He described a picture of his country that does not often come out so well: committed politicians and civil society representatives who have achieved positive results and who unfailingly work for a better future for its inhabitants. Wardak expressed great gratitude for Norwegian support for economic and social development in the country. He repeated several times that Norwegian taxpayers’ money has contributed positively to developments in Afghanistan, and his message was that efforts are beneficial. Minister of Education Wardak pointed out that there have never been as many children in school as today: about nine million. The aim of the Afghan Government is to have full primary education coverage by 2014. It's ambitious, but it's possible they'll succeed. From the Norwegian side, we want to do our part to achieve this goal. Education will remain a core area of Norwegian involvement in the country. Among the students at school is 40 pst. girls — think of that figure, in a country where girls were not allowed to enter schools at all a little over 10 years ago. Today's young girls have a significantly higher chance of avoiding illiteracy than their mothers had. Increasing numbers of women take higher education and take part in the labour market, especially in major cities. Today, the country has 118 female judges. More than ten television channels have female programme managers, and while women were excluded from politics under the Taliban regime, more than a quarter of the MEPs today are women. Afghanistan has the highest proportion of women in Parliament compared to its neighbouring countries and is in fact above the global average for female parliamentarians. In the last decade, Afghanistan has had an annual economic growth of about 9 pst. The starting point was bad, but the arrow is pointing the right way. GDP per capita has almost doubled since 2001. Government debt is low, below 10 pst. GDP. Infrastructure has improved significantly throughout the country. Electricity was not present in Kabul ten years ago; today, much of the city has access to electricity. We also see signs of other types of change: about half of the population, 15 million, have mobile subscriptions. New products are still appearing in the shops. A number of television channels are available, and families watch Turkish television series, Indian movies and listen to music from all over the world on radio. And most importantly, the inhabitants can freely cultivate traditional Afghan culture. But, like many other developing countries, the goods are very unevenly distributed. There's a big difference between town and town and between rich and poor. The Faryab province, where Norway has long had a civil and military presence, shows many visible signs of social and economic progress and is better placed than many other provinces on several development indicators. What has Norway done in recent years? Have we made a difference? Let me mention a few areas: one is child mortality, which in some provinces is highest in the world. Norwegian voluntary organisations have been involved in training Afghan midwives for many years. Norway has financed the training of about a quarter of all registered midwives in Afghanistan. In this field, we have helped to improve women's living conditions and save the lives of children and mothers. Norway has also contributed extensively to village development. Only ten years ago, large parts of Afghanistan had no access to public services. Infrastructure — such as water supply, health centres, roads and irrigation facilities — was in poor condition. We have contributed through national programmes and in direct cooperation with the authorities and non-governmental organisations in Faryab. The implementation of the projects has been carried out in such a way that local communities have strengthened their own decision-making and implementation mechanisms. Local participation and local ownership are essential prerequisites for such progress. Of course, many major challenges remain, but the concrete results achieved in the last ten years show that our efforts and those of other countries have made a difference and can make a difference. Without the support of the international community — military and civil — Afghans could not implement such ambitious development plans. As one of the largest donor countries, Norway has contributed to this. I mentioned three processes initially. The first was the process of transferring security responsibilities to Afghan security authorities. The framework for this so-called transition process has been established through very close cooperation between the international community and Afghanistan. The NATO summit in Chicago confirmed this consensus and the long-term nature of cooperation — which is not over, even though the military efforts in their present form are being completed. The transfer of responsibility for safety is now in line with the plan, and in some areas it has been carried out. The results are good and so far the transfer process has not led to a worsening of the security situation. The capacity and capacity of Afghan security forces to address complex security challenges is gradually strengthened, as we could last see when the Afghan Parliament and several foreign buildings in Kabul and elsewhere in the country were aimed at a coordinated attack in April this year. This is the model for the further international military efforts in Afghanistan. In the summer, the third of a total of five pools with new provinces and districts will be transferred to Afghan responsibility. Most of the Faryab province, with the exception of four districts, will be in this pool. After this transfer is completed, the security will be 75 pst. by the Afghan population are subject to their own safety responsibilities. In the summer of 2013, the fifth and last pool of geographic areas will start the transfer. In line with the Chicago consensus a week ago, the ISAF team will continue to support Afghan security forces following the transfer of the last pool next summer, mainly in a withdrawn training and support role until the end of 2014. This is done to ensure the sustainability of the transmission process. In practice, ISAF will also need to be prepared to continue fighting operations by 2014, but to a limited extent. Norway will have a significantly smaller military presence in Afghanistan in the years to come. We will no longer have military forces stationed in Faryab after October this year. The Norwegian-led Transition Support Group – Faryab, formerly known as PRT, the Provincial Reconstruction Team, will then be wound up at the request of ISAF. The Government has decided to pool the Norwegian military contributions in Mazar-e-Sharip and Kabul. Further Norwegian military efforts will be designed in accordance with the plans and priorities agreed between NATO and Afghanistan. We will contribute in line with our commitments as NATO and ISAF allies. Training and training of Afghan forces in Mazar-e-Sharip and Kabul are now important and sought-after contributions. A good example of Norway’s military training and training of Afghan security forces is the training of the Special Police Unit, CRU, in Kabul from 1 April this year. It's an engagement we also had some years ago, as the Storting will remember. The Norwegian special forces contribute, inter alia: with training on how to avoid unnecessary damage to the civilian population and buildings. The use of such training was made, among other things. during the management of these attacks in Kabul by the Afghan Special Police in April of this year. The Government has decided to continue the mentoring contribution to the Special Police Unit by 2013. The Afghan Special Force makes a formidable effort to secure Kabul, and Norwegian support is a highly valued contribution both from the Afghan side and from among our allies. At the NATO Summit, it was agreed that the alliance will continue to support Afghan security forces, both financially and with various forms of training, training and support beyond 2014. It is also agreed that NATO will not establish a new combat operation after 2014. This responsibility will then lie with the Afghans. The concrete role of NATO from 2015 remains to be clarified. It'll be a main task to define this in the future. As regards the size of the Afghan security forces, Norway supports the decision to progressively reduce these from around 350 000 to around 230 000 in the period 2015-2017. Such a strength is intended to cost about 24 billion. kr annually, of which Afghanistan itself can only finance about 3 billion. in the first few years. For the period 2015–2017, Norway aims to contribute approximately 150 million. kr annually, subject to the consent of the Grand Duchy, for the financing of Afghan security forces, army and police respectively. This will mean that from 2015 we will increase our contribution to the police by 30 million. kr in relation to our annual contributions for the period 2010–2014. A number of countries committed themselves at the Chicago Summit to the long-term financing of the Afghan security forces. Any military strength contribution to a new NATO mission after 2014 we have to decide on at a later date. From the Norwegian side, it will in any case be essential that future efforts in Afghanistan are firmly anchored in the UN Security Council and at the invitation of the Afghan authorities. The second of the three processes I mentioned in the introduction is about our civil commitment. There will be a major need for development assistance to Afghanistan even after responsibility for security has been transferred to the Afghan authorities in 2014. This is necessary to consolidate international efforts to build Afghan institutions over the last ten years. In addition, it is necessary to ensure the ability of Afghan authorities to ensure their own safety and development. Afghanistan has requested that the international community undertake to maintain its civil support beyond 2014. At the beginning of July, the international community in Tokyo will meet for a new donor conference. It shall specify the commitments made by Afghanistan and the donor countries during the Kabul and Bonn conferences in 2010 and 2011. These obligations are often referred to as the Kabul process. In the Kabul process, donor countries have committed themselves to maintaining support at a high level. We have also agreed that aid should be given according to Afghan plans and priorities. At least 50 pst. the assistance shall be channelled into the State budget of Afghanistan and 80 pst. shall be allocated to programmes in line with the country’s national development plan. This is a visible example of Afghan ownership. At the Tokyo Conference, the international community must demonstrate that we live up to these obligations. It will give a clear signal both to the Afghan population, the Afghan authorities and the countries of the region that the closure of ISAF does not mean the end of international engagement. It implies the transition to a new phase. We build confidence that the country will not be abandoned by the international community, and trust that we will support the forces that will travel a stable, secure and more developed Afghanistan. At the request of the Afghan Government, Norway and Afghanistan jointly negotiated a strategic cooperation document. The cooperation agreement is general and general and provides a time horizon for Norwegian civil engagement. It defines the future objectives of cooperation between Norway and Afghanistan with emphasis on enhanced political dialogue, cooperation on security, economic and development, good governance, human rights and migration. We suggest that the cooperation agreement will be signed by the Prime Minister and the President here in Oslo for the autumn. The government’s position is that, subject to the consent of the Storting, Norway should continue the civil effort to Afghanistan by some 750 million. kr annually for the period 2013-2017. This is the annual target we have had for the 2008–2012 period. A contribution at this level will place us high on the list of comparable countries and show that we are committed to our commitments in Afghanistan. Norway was in Afghanistan long before the terrorist attacks in September 2001 and we want to remain a significant civil player even after the ISAF operation has been completed. The main focus of Norway will continue to be education, governance and rural development. In addition, women’s rights will remain an overriding consideration in all contexts. We have competence and experience in these areas, and we want to build on this as a starting point. The main Norwegian aid channel will continue to be the World Bank's multi-stakeholder fund, channelling funds into Afghan budgets and programmes. The UN and non-governmental organisations will continue to be channels for our assistance. This is due to the weak capacity of both the Afghan authorities to absorb aid and to the fact that it provides flexibility in an unforeseeable situation, both political and security. Up to 20 pst of Norwegian assistance has so far been earmarked for the Faryab province, where we have had our PRT. Development needs are still high, and we are concerned to avoid an abrupt end in a province where Norway has been a major player now as we descend military presence. Consequently, we will remain in Faryab after our military forces have been withdrawn, and civil efforts are planned to continue at a high level until 2017. This shows accountability to the inhabitants of the province. Assistance to Afghanistan will be provided under clear conditions. In that Kabul process, the Afghan authorities have committed themselves to implementing concrete actions in the areas of governance, justice, human rights, equality, children's rights, economic and social development, peace and reconciliation measures and drug control. These commitments are real and we will carefully assess whether the Afghan authorities are actually fulfilling them. At the same time, we must constantly assess the political and security situation in the country. Norwegian aid efforts must be able to be adjusted in the event of a negative development. I informed in April 2011 that there would be a review of Norwegian aid to Afghanistan over the last ten years. Norad has now, in cooperation with ECORYS Nederland BV, carried out a full evaluation. The report will be published in a short time. As far as I can see, the evaluation report commends Norway for its excellence in following up Afghan priorities. We were among the first countries to channel our funds through the large multilateral funds supporting the Afghan state budget. We were also among the first to decide that our funds should be unbundled, that is. that we do not earmark the funds for specific projects but provide support to enable the Afghan authorities to channel the funds themselves where the needs are greatest. Through political dialogue, we assure ourselves that we maintain focus on our priority areas: education, good governance and rural development. I am pleased that the evaluation report also appears to emphasise that Norwegian support for women and gender equality is positive. We'll take that with us. The evaluation report is also clear that all processes of change take time. The starting point for Afghanistan was difficult, after many years of war. Most government agencies were destroyed, and we started our assistance to the country on the most difficult basis possible. So one challenge we have in measuring the results of the assistance is that there is hardly any statistical material from this very beginning that we can measure up to, i.e., a reference point. Norad’s evaluation also shows how difficult it is to provide assistance to a conflicted country and with a very uncertain situation on the ground. Although good individual results have been achieved, it is more difficult to track and measure major system changes as a result of the long-term assistance effort. This does not necessarily mean that the results do not exist, but that there are major shortcomings in the tools that measure results and that evaluation mechanisms have not been in place. Unfortunately, the report also notes that a high volume of assistance creates greater room for corruption — as I mentioned earlier — and that a demanding security situation makes it difficult to follow the use of funds down to the project level. This applies not only to the assistance, but to the entire Norwegian effort. This also applies not only in Afghan context but also in other countries. This is something we have to learn from. The shortcomings identified in the evaluation are taken seriously. We will prioritise work on better control mechanisms and better tools to measure results. At the same time, providing assistance in a conflict country can never happen without risk. But we're going to do everything in our power to limit this uncertainty. In parallel with long-term assistance, we will continue our humanitarian efforts. The humanitarian challenges in Afghanistan are huge and complex. Natural disasters and armed conflict for a number of years lead to great suffering for the population. It is 2.7 million Afghan refugees in neighbouring countries who cannot or will not return before they see hope for a better future in their homeland. This refugee problem needs a regional solution, where Afghanistan, together with neighbouring countries, facilitates voluntary return. Should that happen, the refugees must be sure that they have a place to live and opportunities to feed their families. It is therefore encouraging that Afghanistan and neighbouring countries now take the refugee situation more seriously and cooperate better to find sustainable solutions. Norway is about 130 million. kr annually for humanitarian aid in Afghanistan. It is channelled to the multilateral system, where appropriate, and we are working with non-governmental organisations where they can point to good results in the field. Together with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the Norwegian Refugee Aid assists both refugees and internally displaced persons with vital needs. We also have good experience with the International Red Cross Committee, the ICRC, which is the humanitarian player in Afghanistan with access to most provinces. The ICRC provides comprehensive health interventions across the country through the operation of hospitals, health stations and the training of outpatient staff. The dialogue that the ICRC has with all armed groups/forces in Afghanistan gives the organisation a unique role. The follow-up of prisoners and their rights is another core task for the ICRC, as well as the rehabilitation of mine victims and others with war injuries. Norway has also for many years financed systematic mining of rural areas in Afghanistan. The results achieved by Afghanistan in cooperation with the international community would not have been possible without the efforts of all those who have served in the country. Here is one group that has not often been in focus: Norwegian police officers and women have contributed to training Afghan police in investigations, detention, intelligence and other tasks. In order to ensure greater security and legal certainty for the population, it is essential to have a well-functioning and loyal police force, with confidence in the population. When responsibility for security is now transferred to the Afghan authorities, the Norwegian police contribution will also be phased out gradually. I would therefore like to thank all Norwegian policemen who have been involved in this work, for the solid efforts that have been made. At the same time, I can assure the Storting that we will continue to provide financial support to the Afghan police, yes, the largest sum of security support actually comes to the police sector. Although Afghanistan will depend on assistance for many years to come, it also has a rich economic potential. We must not forget that. Afghanistan has large natural resources, not least minerals, and can once again play an important role as a transit country for regional and international trade, including oil and gas. It is important to develop the agricultural sector and access to markets. Infrastructure development is here the key. It is far ahead, but we must remember that the opportunities are there when the political and security conditions are put right. The third process I want to highlight in this presentation is the work on a political solution. Let me emphasise this in particular: a political solution is essential for Afghanistan's future security and development. Norway has long called for a political solution to be found by engaging the Taliban and other rebel groups. We were among the first to point out that the conflict in Afghanistan cannot be won militarily. This is now an opinion shared internationally. The political solutions must be Afghan. Ethnic, cultural and political contradictions must be handled and resolved by the Afghans themselves. Of course, this is difficult after 30 years of internal and external conflicts. The road to reconciliation is long. Suspicion exists across political and ethnic dividing lines. At the same time, we know that neighbouring countries such as Pakistan and Iran have clear interests linked to a peace settlement. It makes it extra difficult to achieve lasting peace. We hear from time to time about various reconciliation initiatives. It is obvious that several people want to organise such a process. But it has proved difficult to succeed. We saw it at the latest in connection with the establishment of a Taliban office in Doha, Qatar. The Agency is not yet open, and it is uncertain whether – and when – it does. Norway's experience of peace and reconciliation processes in other conflict areas has shown us that such things take time. In Afghanistan, this must be done through an inclusive process of participation also by Afghan women and civil society. Norway has close contact with the Afghan women’s network, and together we have launched cooperation to strengthen women’s place in the peace process. The women must get a seat at the table and be heard. Norway has also been an active driver to implement UNSCR 1325 of 2000 on women, peace and security. In addition, Norway took the initiative of its own High Representative in NATO for Resolution 1325, which was welcomed and adopted at the NATO Summit in Chicago. A strengthened NATO exposure in this field is joyous. Similarly, we continue our efforts to support Afghanistan's desire to link neighbouring countries in closer regional cooperation. If Afghanistan is to be stable, the region must also be stable. It is therefore of great importance that Afghanistan and neighbouring countries strengthen political and practical cooperation between themselves. And it is important that the Pakistani government succeeds in combating extremism within its own borders. Against this background, it is gratifying that we see the germs of enhanced cooperation in several areas. The countries of the so-called Istanbul process will meet in Kabul on 14 June this year to agree on a work programme for the further development of cooperation. Norway, as one of the supporting players of this process, will play an active role here. Thus, Afghanistan is undergoing several major processes of change that run parallel to and within a demanding context. The political situation is fragile. Local authorities are weakly developed. President Karzai has the power to maintain political control, but his position and confidence in the population is weakened during his reign. Presidential elections shall be held in 2014. In a bilateral meeting of the Prime Minister with President Karzai in Chicago, the President was aware that the necessary reforms will be undertaken so that the 2014 elections become more open and free than the previous ones. It's positive. We also expect the transfer of political power to take place peacefully in 2014. But we have to look in the eye that the prerequisite for a successful choice is an improved security situation. It can only be achieved through political progress and a national reconciliation process. In total, there is no doubt that the challenges in Afghanistan are great. It will continue to take time to stabilise the country and ensure sustainable development. We are in a phase when responsibility for governance and security is transferred to the Afghan authorities. It is easy to point out all the difficulties and challenges that could lead to the failure of Afghanistan’s development. However, I choose to be optimistic – in the long term. During my trips to Afghanistan, I have always met engaged Afghans who want to contribute and who have strong faith that peace and development are possible. The exposure is high in Afghan women who want to participate in political processes. Finally, I would like to thank you for the efforts of the many thousands of Norwegian men and women who have served in Afghanistan over the last ten years, and those who serve there today. And I think it's in place here again with respect to remember our soldiers who have fallen in Afghanistan: Siri Skare, Andreas Eldjarn, Simen Tokle, Trond André Bolle, Christian Lian, Claes Joachim Olsson, Trond Petter Kolset, Kristoffer Sørli Jørgensen, Tor Arne Lau-Henriksen and Tommy Rødningsby. We must give follow-up to the soldiers who have been physically or mentally injured during the service in Afghanistan in those years. All Norwegian women and men who have made an effort have been crucial for a new future for Afghanistan – a member of the world society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1946	The President will propose that the statement on developments in Afghanistan as well as Norwegian civil and military engagement be addressed in a subsequent meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1960	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1969	It is not difficult to agree with the proposers that Norway has an open economy and to share their concerns about the export-oriented sector. The development of cost levels in Norway is alarming compared with those of our trading partners. Because, while large parts of Europe are hit by a debt and unemployment crisis that we see no end to too many countries, Norway and Norwegian businesses are doing very well. We have high employment, and we have low unemployment. This means increasing pressure on wages, and expectations in Norway about an ever-increasing standard of living are high. This is a very demanding situation, in which the social partners also have to take responsibility, so that our export industry is not competitive because of the high cost level in our country. The social partners have a tradition of taking their share of the responsibility for keeping wage growth within the limits of export-oriented business. The frontal model is precisely based on that principle. There is therefore no basis for us to intervene and undermine one of the most important pillars of the development of the Norwegian welfare society by introducing a income policy based on taxation, as the Progress Party proposes in its proposal for a decision in the proposal for a representative that we are now considering. Providing tax relief without at the same time pointing to budgetary constraints will provide a more expansive fiscal policy. It is not desirable at a time when, as a result, we must be committed to a responsible budgetary policy. A responsible budget is our best contribution in a situation where Norwegian export-oriented business is facing major challenges in a European market with falling demand for goods due to the debt and unemployment crisis that afflicts the countries, a crisis that also threatens our economy in the long term if we are not responsible in the exercise of economic policy. It is only the Progress Party who supports the proposal in this matter. The position of the majority of the Committee, i.e. all the other parties agree that the proposal of the Progress Party shall not be adopted. And that's good. Undermining the responsibilities of the social partners to negotiate a wage increase in the competitive sector, as the front-line model works, would not only be unwise, but directly detrimental to the development of the Norwegian welfare model as we know it. Our role as political authority must be to build up under the model we have, not break it down. We do this best by pursuing sound budgetary policies in line with the rules of action and by adapting the economic situation, as the Minister of Finance writes in his letter to the Committee on the basis of the proposal of the Progress Party. And with that, I'm going to present the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e1982	It was interesting to hear the rapporteur’s review – it could have been almost any debate. You end up with the same conclusion that everything is going well, we're doing everything we've done before, and there's nothing to complain about, nothing to improve. That's the same lesson. True to say: it is quite good in Norway, we have it quite well, and we do not have too much to complain about. But it's still possible to find better solutions to the challenges we actually have. Over the last few years, we've had an increasingly rich state, and we've had a business that's struggling more and more. The competitive sector in Norway is increasingly struggling, and the level of pay in Norway is about. 50 pst. higher than in our competitor country. Of course, it requires that we work even smarter, even better, even better with ICT solutions, etc. But we're not sure that we're 50 pst. smarter than all our competitors, and it also shows that the industry is struggling. This eternal belief in the responsibility of the social partners that we see from the government parties is interesting – not least when we are in the midst of a conflict that many think is strange. I believe that if you believe in the rhetoric of the previous speaker, she is particularly dissenting in this conflict, because you are 50 pst. at salary level already and because of the apparent absence of accountability. The front-line model — it sounds very nice — means that the wage trend facing competitive industry will withstand the rest of society. But then it must not be forgotten that at the same time the number of public employees is increasing, that is the sector that is growing the most, and the public sector does not generate revenue to the public, that is just expenditure. Then “responsibility” becomes a strange expression. Furthermore, there is an increasing number of disability pensioners, and when you get more and more disability pensioners, there are fewer and fewer who contribute to the well-being of society. It is strange that the country that flows over from milk and honey, which has the best leave arrangements, the shortest working days, the longest vacations, etc., has the largest number of deaths. There's something that's not right. Obviously, the country with milk and honey is also a country where people work much less than you should expect, and what you should actually demand. When we want to provide tax relief instead of wage increases, it is precisely to defend the export-oriented industry. We have a very rich state and a business that is struggling, and instead of saving all the money and salting everything abroad for future generations, we want something to go to tax relief – not as the previous speaker says, that we won't cut anywhere; the whole point of tax relief instead of wage increases is that it's instead of wage increases. The state takes the bill for the companies, that's what's the idea behind this – or just like it was done in the 1970s, with what was called Kleppe packages. Then it was obviously not so irresponsible to do the exact same thing, namely to give tax relief instead of wage increases. It's a good idea to think about something new. It's not like every new thought is scary and something you should always ignore. And then it might also be that the Progress Party occasionally comes up with a wise idea, which others can copy later on. I take this up with the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2004	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2007	Let me say right away that mixing tax policy and wage-fixing directly, we don't think it's a good idea. There are a lot of people in the financial committee who are reasonably united. On the other hand, we share the concerns of the proposers regarding the backstop and the description of the Norwegian economy. I want to draw your attention a little bit to our own comment, which we wrote at the end of April, where it says: ‘The arrangement seems so far to take place in relatively calm forms.’ It's not very well adapted today's situation, to say it like that, and shows how it changes. Since the rapporteur spoke about the front-line model, there is a sign that the front-line model may not be so strong anymore, because there are protected groups and the public sector that are now fighting and creating the challenges of wage making, which did not seem to happen at the end of April. When we already know that our cost level is 56 pst. of the level of our trading partners in the EU, and we have had a consultation where the NHO provided regional statistics that show that they have never observed such disparities regionally in Norway in terms of the optimism about industrial activities — they have never seen so many differences in sectors — I have to say that it is amazing that a government that does not take this any more into account and does some action in the general economic policy. There, I think, the Minister of Finance has a huge challenge in front of the government budget for the autumn. In fact, we have to take some action if we are not to make the Norwegian economy too one-sided towards one sector. We had the head of the central bank visiting the committee today, and then we heard that 22 pst. of mainland Norway's GDP is now actually oil-powered. It's a percentage that's increasing quite sharply, and it shows that Norway is going into an economy where we're only dependent on oil, and where it's the oil that drives everything. I think that's signals you're going to take over, but I don't think it's going to be solved in the payroll. I think it was worth saying something about those challenges here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2023	It is a major and important issue which, at first sight, gives the impression that the Progress Party wants to achieve a more even growth in purchasing power among people and that the competitiveness of export companies should be steadily strengthened. That's not what it says. The issue of taxes and levies is, as many have been involved, an ordinary budgetary procedure. But discussing taxes and taxes, purchasing power development for everyone and for all export companies, is an important topic that I would like to discuss a little. But a much more thorough debate is needed. There is no direct link between tax relief and the ability of high pay to reduce their pay demands — perhaps almost the opposite. There's an important context that you have to point out. Furthermore, what is really the driving force of the Norwegian economy today is an oil and gas sector that is almost exploding in its activity, and it is a development of property – read: Property speculation – that involves an increasing number of inhabitants, as a result of favourable rules. There is also a considerable amount of labour immigration, where it is very difficult to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions for the many who are exposed to this competition. What's essential in this question that's taken up here, that's underlying the Center Party, is that we need to focus on four relationships. It is, as mentioned from the latter, regional differences and the division of economic and social life. The fact that the front panels are now so strongly connected is essential. But we know that more and more of the income supplements are being given as local negotiations, and so it is no longer so crucial what is the content of the central negotiations. The large local additions to the front are linked to the two-tiered industry, where the oil and gas-related sector has such high profits and shortages of skilled labour that it can pay very high wages. There's also a point that it's important to point out, and that's the lack of coherence that now exists between labour productivity and real wages. It is a serious imbalance. Labour productivity is now much lower for most industries than the positive developments in real wages. It can't last for a while. I just want to end by saying, in order to rule in general, given the two-way division of business, the two-way division of working life and the major regional differences, it is important that one now not only discusses giving more gas, but that one also discusses using the brake. Brake is an equally important pedal as gas for someone who is a capable conductor. There must be a thorough discussion of the political fact that I have now experienced in the Committee on Finance, namely that the oil and gas sectors take what they need, as a central representative said, and then a political debate on what remains to be done. It can't be, because it leads to such a two-part division that it creates incredibly great challenges for the rest of business and for those people who don't get involved in the thriving business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2045	Just a few brief comments: As the rapporteur and several others were involved, many years of high pay growth have given us a high level of costs in Norway. A strengthening of the crown has further increased costs. Many companies have been lucky, with prices of Norwegian exports rising in recent years and thus also slowing down the pressure on profitability. It's an evolution that can turn around. The prospects for lower economic growth and lower demand from our action partners make the situation more demanding for export-oriented businesses in Norway. Connecting fiscal policies and wage settlements is not a good response to this challenge. To the representative Tybring-Gjedde: we have tried this before. The experience was not quite good, to say it that way. One had a so-called combined paycheck in the mid 1970s. Those who know the story well know that by the end of the 1970s the price growth was so high that one actually had to go to a pay and price stop. The aim of the changes in taxes and other budgetary measures, which were used early in the 1970s, was to contribute to increased purchasing power and competitiveness. Nevertheless, in retrospect we saw that wage growth went down, and at the same time both government finances and the foreign economy were severely weakened. As the rapporteur also pointed out, such income policy based on tax relief would undermine the responsibility of the parties to settle the revenue in question. In addition, such a policy would also mean a more expansive fiscal policy if tax relief were not covered by other measures in the budget. Already in the 1973 oil notification, it was pointed out that excessive budgetary policy could pose major challenges for the competitive economy. I think it's important to have this recognition with you when you look at the framework that's established around economic policy. Now I am not going to take the familiar article about the rule of action – it is well known in the hall here. But the framework we have for economic policy is correct and sensible. Then it is that the public inquiry from the Technical Calculation Committee for Income Statements — which is interesting reading both in fact and in terms of the figures and tables in it — should facilitate a common understanding of the data base for income statements. It shall also facilitate a common understanding of the challenges facing the Norwegian economy. The Norwegian wage negotiation model – the leading trade model – that emerged from the Aukrust Committee in 1966 is based on the fact that over time wage growth must be kept within the framework of which competitive business can live. It is now important to support this model. Then we must also maintain that the implementation of the wage settlement is the responsibility of the parties, so that they take full account of the economic situation. The best contribution the government and the majority of the United Kingdom can make in this way is to pursue sound economic policies adapted to the economic situation, which are policies in line with the government's revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2063	Several of the speakers include: The rapporteur of the Labour Party, Mr Gunnar Gunnarsen, Mr Lundtägen and the Minister of Finance, said that taxes should not be mixed with wages and salaries. In agriculture — which takes place during these days and is largely the payroll of farmers — taxes, levies and depreciation rules have been mixed on several occasions as part of the payroll. Doesn't the same rules apply here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2069	I think it's important to hold on and build on experience from the past. The fact that, through tax relief, the country is trying to influence the reduction in pay supplements in wage negotiations is a model that we have tried before and that later proved not to have the effects that one should have. It can actually happen in that way that in a pay debate where a first person has seen a card that means tax relief, it is not said that a person is holding back on pay demands. So one can actually get a stronger effect than the one you've seen. While an early 1970s saw that one was going to have a real wage growth in the area of about 3 pst, which was kind of a goal, the afterlife showed that one actually got a real wage growth of between 5 and 6 pst. So regardless of the settlement, one should stick to the purely negotiable conditions, and then there may be particular nutritional conditions that are taken up in the context of income settlement, for example. in the context of agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2074	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2090	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2099	We present here a proposal for a representative on the principle of accruals as a basis for government budgeting and accounting. The principle of accruals as a basis for government budgeting was established in NOU 2003:6, What does it cost? Government Bondevik II and a broad majority of the Storting Financial Committee then went against replacing the cash principle. The same goes for a wide variety of people in today's finance committee. I wonder why the proposers are busy with this. Is it to get better money management, or is it to get more highways, which they use as an example in the proposal? Do they believe that there will be more money to change the budgeting principle, or is it perhaps too easy to outsource state tasks? A transition to a perioded budget will provide a weaker basis for political governance, both by government activity and by the Norwegian economy. It is also the case that only four of the 34 OECD countries have fully time-limited budgets, and there have been questions about whether this actually provides sound government governance. The draft representative points out that ‘Norway is now the only Nordic country that has not made government accounts in accordance with the principle of accruals’. But it is that the majority of OECD countries have always had and still have cash-based government budgets and government accounts. Here, Finland and Sweden stand out, not Norway. Denmark follows the cash principle for central parts of government expenditure, but not for infrastructure investment. When this government has already opened up the possibility that state-owned enterprises which wish to do so may use the accruals principle for their internal accounting, it has been foreseen that this should not lead to any change in the financial powers of the enterprise. It's done to secure political governance. Motorway is referred to as a sample of the proposal. Then we can build more if we have a periodic budget, the Progress Party. In the first year, it will cost a little less, but then a little bit more will increase the right to depreciation, which in the next round will give less economic freedom of action. It is also the case that the proposal for a representative means that the enterprises in the country will have access to borrowing against future licenses to cover depreciation. I am pleased that the majority is agreed with the Labour Party when we believe that there is no need for the state to finance loans or other expenditure that is currently being carried over the line. It is easy to want more money for individual items, but there will be no more money to change the budget. It's about prioritizing, about spending the big money on the big issues. If the Progress Party wants more money for road and rail, they may, for example: cancel all the tax cuts so that they can get a bigger room for action. The majority opposes the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2125	There is a great difference between the way in which private enterprises and the public sector keep their accounts. The State has decided, after a decision in the Storting, that we should essentially follow the cash principle, which means that a cost is incurred at the time of its occurrence. If we're going to build a 50-billion-dollar highway. kr above the State budget for 2013, the full cost of today’s system will be borne as a cost in 2013, despite the fact that people and society will have high benefits of road investment for both 50 and 60 years in advance. In the private sector, accounts are kept according to the accruals principle, which do not have these biases. The political consequence of the cash principle is that important infrastructure investments are set against current operating costs and can quickly lead to the choice of building 2 km of road each year for 10 years on a stretch over 20 km in one year. Not least, we should keep this in mind when the 2011 Tribal Survey indicates that there is a greater need for 500 billion. kr in order to achieve an acceptable road standard. In aviation, flooding and the state have solved the problem in a good way. The state owns Avinor, Avinor owns the airports, and Avinor keeps its accounts and budgets according to the accruals principle. This leads to predictability and Avinor can invest in the future. Investments that Avinor has made and will carry out would be an impossibility with the cash principle. Unfortunately, the government takes too much profit, but it's going to be a different discussion. The accounting principle Avinor uses, the periodicity principle, works very well, and it's high time that road, railway, school construction, etc., where the maturity is enormous, applies the same principle. The Auditor's Association has issued a separate consultation note on the proposals of the Progress Party, which points to the Avinor model as a major success, and concludes with the following questions: Why do we not require the same principles at ministerial and consolidated level? The principle of cash is also one of the reasons why public infrastructure is due. In the accruals principle, reality would be different. If a road bill were not maintained, the value of the road investment would have to be written down as the road lapses, and this would be clear from the statement of financial position. On the basis of the cash principle, however, maintenance is smooth to throw the money out of the window. The principle of cash is a barrier to transparency, price and right of challenge compared to the private sector and the principle of accruals. Luckily, some dare to challenge so-called established truths, while others on death and life shall be loyal and faithful to a system they think they are part of themselves. But it is not the loyal system bearers who over time win, on the contrary, it is the innovative, entrepreneurs and those who dare to challenge a failed system. If not, we would still live in caves and be at the Stone Age level. The Progress Party had an impact on free competition in the telecommunications market, alternative television channels and the exemption of the Post. This is also how we will one day have an impact on the principle of accounting accruals in the Storting and in the State. Because ultimately, this proposal to play on the party is about the future. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2144	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2147	If we were to have the principle of time-limiting in the state, which we have partly in private business, partly in state-owned establishments and, to some extent, also in some municipalities, that is a fairly heavy matter for the Right. The reason why we are voting against the proposal today is that we believe that changing the country's accounting policies should be done after an overall assessment of the case rather than on the basis of a representative proposal, at least when the ministry is reasonably sceptical. Even if you don't manage to get money for the purposes you want, it's not that simple that you just change the accounting system, all of a sudden the money comes, whether it's going to jail, to hospitals, or to other things. There must still be rigid priorities, at least if the rule of action is intended to apply, and it is considered to be known to the Right. I would like to remind you that during the Bondevik II government, during the time of Per-Kristian Foss, as Minister of Finance – so put right there – this matter was investigated and presented to the Stortinget, with a reasonably similar majority as today, it looks like, in terms of not changing this. On the other hand, we see that there are some advantages to thinking new things, as several representatives from the Progress Party have launched today. No one else disagrees. You see it in the municipalities, you see it in different state units, you see it not least in the state corporations. But I think that we are served by a further professional debate, which can eventually also become part of a larger political debate. That is why the Right has submitted comments that we would like to have a debate on this. It's part of a maturation process, but it's also a priority process. It's not like the grass is always greener on the other side, because you'll always owe it to the system when you don't get any money for what you want. It's not that simple. It is simply tough political priorities that determine whether you get money for what you want, not what accounting models you use. We've also noticed the recordings that come from the Professional Association. We believe from the Right on this basis that the government should regularly discuss the issue with professionals, but also to a greater extent bring the Stortinget to that discussion. One should also involve KS, so that positions and decisions are better anchored than they are today. On this basis, I take up the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left that the proposal for a representative should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2158	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2161	The centre party supports the proposal that a comprehensive assessment should be carried out, thus rejecting the proposal. However, the introduction of the accruals principle in the public sector is to be discussed in such a way that public accounts and budgets are not carried out on a cash basis, an important discussion. When the Progress Party wants to discuss this, there are probably more motives for it. For the Center Party, the motive in the case is to get better control. The Progress Party will probably have less political governance, but what is central to us is that one has a principle of budgets and accounting that is such that one gets done as one sees the need to do, in a more equivalent way, that there will be more equivalent political competition between the various tasks for which the State has a responsibility. So what do I mean by that? Well, there's a lot of times a discussion in this hall about what an investment is, and there's a lot of investment. Yeah, that's right. Training people is an investment. But what is the system in the education sector is that when deciding on places of study, the current costs for the country of the places of study will be included in the budget adjusted for impact, for example. the proposal submitted by the government of the revised national budget, which is a good proposal, to increase the number of university and higher education places. There's going to be a small cost now, there's going to be a greater cost in the future. It's the system of investing in study places in the field of cash. In the case of construction, it is seagoingly different. There is the cash principle that investments come as a one-off expense – all at once. There was some reason why when one of the government parties had two key issues that it wanted to solve during this period, namely kindergartens and railways, it went very well in the kindergarten sector, because there were the municipalities that stood for the investments. It did not come under the state's cash principle, but rail investment came under the cash principle, and it was much more difficult then to achieve political competition with it, when we know that there are a number of welfare tasks that compete very well and better with railway investment. I would also like to say that it was the majority in the Financial Committee of the United Kingdom that stated it at the Innst. 2 S for 2010–2011 on time-limited business accounts, namely ‘It is important that business accounts do not impair the specificities required by public governance requirements’, is very important to ensure compliance with those requirements and it is essential to have an accounting system that ensures policy governance. Furthermore, it is clear that the financing of government investments cannot be justified on the basis of Norway’s rational economic considerations. It is essential that we get systems that lead to it being taken as elected decisions, and that it is not the state economy being moved out of the Biggest and down into the individual state business. It was previously referred to here as the Avinor model. It's not an option for the Center Party. If the Avinor model were to be implemented for railways, state roads, ports and state buildings, it would reduce the elected government. On the other hand, it is important that we discuss overall the need for system changes in this area, because most people do not understand that investment in ports, university buildings, railways and state roads is not a priority. It is a system error when this type of investment, most of which people are very concerned about, loses in competition by giving more pay, increased pensions, increased welfare improvements to the economic resources, while building the country, which is about strengthening competitiveness in the longer term, loses in competition. That is why it is an important question, which must have its political clarification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2178	It is important to be aware that accruals of budgets or accounts do not give more money. Technical changes to budgetary rules do not provide us with any more money or human resources. It's possible it's possible to get around the budget that way, but it's not possible to get around reality. Periodical budgets or accounts also do not provide any more governance, such as: The representative, Mr Lundtegen, was now in the Chamber. On the other hand, a periodicisation can provide more information. But then it is important that we are consistent. The Progress Party is committed to activating investments in the budget. If we are to do what we do in the private sector, we must not only activate the investments, but we must also activate the commitments that the state has. At least we should activate the state's pension liabilities towards its own employees, which we do not do today. One question that would also appear was whether to activate future responsibilities in popular security. That would be quite a large amount, and it probably wouldn't be right to do so either, because we have to remember that the state cannot in principle go bankrupt, and the state also has the ability to charge taxes on people and businesses. However, it is necessary to have a good overview of the commitments undertaken by the State through the welfare system. To give a real picture here, we can't just look at the state budget. Today, we are calculating these commitments in the national budget, where we have just provided new figures. We do that through the so-called generation accounts, which say something about how much tax levels need to be increased in the future to cover future liabilities. These are important and central analyses. The figures show that despite funds and oil wealth, funding for the welfare state in the years to come becomes difficult. Then there is no room for great tax relief or creative budget solutions where we push the payment for investment out on time. It's sending bills to the next generation, it's not being on the game with the next generation. Financial policy affects overall demand, and the State budget is the key instrument in this respect. The activity of government projects follows largely cash flows and not accrualed amounts. I believe that we take best care of the role of the government budget in fiscal policy by linking the Storting decision to cash flows. Politics is about making choices. I believe that it is the Stortinget and the government who will manage what is called the Community's funds, or the taxpayers' money, a little by political stance. I notice that the majority of the committee agrees with me on this. The members of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that any adjustments and changes in the country's accounting policies must be made in the light of a very thorough and thoughtful process. They welcome a technical debate that can contribute to increased understanding and interest in the issue. I'm glad. Since 2004, the Stortinget has also received a detailed report every year on the budgetary proposals for the development of the accounts of the State. In particular, we went through the experience of using periodic accounts at activity level in 2007 and 2010. The size has taken these assessments for information each year. I will continue with the technical development work in the field of accounting in the state, and I will keep the Storting constantly informed about what is happening. Let me finally say the following: I have a certain impression that the criticism of the cash principle is mainly motivated by the desire for more money for specific purposes. However, a periodicisation of the budget or of the accounts will no longer give rise to any allocation. When a large part of the budget is committed to depreciation on investments we have already made, we must ensure freedom of action in other areas in order to operate macroeconomic policies and governance with cyclical events. Then we stand by the fact that this is a discussion about priorities and not about budgeting and accounting systems. All expenses must be paid over time. There is no free money. If we fall for that temptation now, we will shift great bills to the future, where the burden will already be quite great. That's the opposite of being on the side of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2195	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2198	We see that the Auditor's Association supports the proposals of the Progress Party, on the grounds that a periodicisation principle will provide a more transparent system, which can be easier to follow both investment and not least the maintenance side. The ratio of the depreciation value to the balance sheet is particularly important here. The principle of cash does not capture the maturity within our infrastructure. Does the Minister of Finance really think he can stand and defend a system where we have 400-500 billion. kr i lag only on the roadside? We have it in school, in track and in many other public buildings. The system has proved that it has failed because it is not transparent and cannot be verified. It will do, on the other hand, with a periodication system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2206	It is already the case today that enterprises, in consultation with the Ministry, may choose to keep their accounts in accordance with accruals, in line with government accounting rules. There's a lot of state-owned businesses doing that. It is a good governance tool, because it provides greater opportunities for businesses to plan their activities. At the same time, when we draft the State budget, we take into account the wishes and needs of the institutions, within the framework of which it is sound to present. The starting point for this discussion is a desire to get free money into the state budget. My view is that there is no such money, but I have previously told the representative Svendsen that the Progress Party has some free money if they want to spend it – and that is to refrain from large tax credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2213	I guess we're not quite able to match Justin Bieber right now, in terms of interest in the cash and accruals policies in state accounting, but it's important as full. I strongly agree with the Minister of Finance when he says that there is no free money, and that everything is to be paid in due course. But it's interesting to hear one of the leading fiscal politicians from the red-green side, Lundtigen, who says that today we have a system error, where building the country loses compared to more ongoing wage and operating costs. This is something we have to do with as soon as possible. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether this system error to which the representative Lundtigen refers is something the Minister of Finance agrees with, and what he will do about it in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2222	I was a little exhilarated when I went down to Stortinget today and saw the large collection and thought that it might be the finance minister they're waiting for, but there I was grossly wrong. I thought to myself that I might have stood there too, if it was Elvis who had come to visit Oslo, but enough about it. What I heard from the representative Lundteggen was in, is to the extent that a discussion on priorities in the government budget – on priorities between investment and operation, and the grey zone between investment and operation, i.e. how to use the money in the government budget. I have registered that we, the undersigned and the representative Lundtigen, are largely in agreement on the main road choices that have been made to build the country – although in some cases we may have different opinions. That's why I don't see it as a big or fundamental disagreement, but there's a discussion that we should have with both parties and everyone else, about what choices we're going to make to get this country moving forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2229	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2245	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2254	In Document 8:74 S for 2011-2012, the Progress Party promotes two proposals, one on the phasing-out plan for fuel taxes and one on the premises for competition in the service station industry. A number of conditions affect fuel prices. In the spring, the oil sanctions against Iran have received special attention. Many countries limit imports of oil from Iran. Increased tension between Iran and the West due to Iran’s nuclear programme thus increases the demand for oil from other countries. From New Year to March, the price of a barrel of North Sea oil rose by about 15 pst. Petrol prices have increased by nearly 10 pst. from February 2011 to February 2012. The actual level of charges has not changed in the period. Consequently, the increase in fuel prices does not have a background for charging increases. The proper functioning of competition in the fuel market is important for consumers. An overall committee points out that the objective of the Competition Act is to promote competition, thereby contributing to the efficient use of society’s resources. Competition authorities have followed the fuel market for a longer period of time and will give priority to monitoring price and competition developments in this market in the future. It's a work I trust. The majority of the Committee also notes that the geographical price differences are greater than the costs of transporting the fuel and that reduced barriers to entry would be positive for competition in the fuel market. A broad majority opposes the proposal for a phasing out plan for fuel taxes. We refer to the overall review of the car charges in connection with the 2012 budget. Fees that correct external effects can contribute to more efficient resource use. For example, the socio-economic cost of environmental emissions can be priced at environmental taxes paid by the polluter. Market-correcting charges should be designed in such a way as to reflect the actual cost of society. Fuel taxes should reflect the external costs of driving which affect society in terms of road wear, accidents, queues, noise, health damage and environmental emissions. Charges are no higher than the cost of driving on the part of society. In addition, the Excise Excise Committee has provided detailed assessments of this area. The E24 has gone through indicative petrol prices from 1930 until today. According to them, we've never spent a smaller share of our pay on petrol. But in any case, car and fuel represent a significant cost in the household economy. It is also linked to the fact that Norway is a long-term country, where many depend on the flexibility that cars can provide to carry out daily tasks. Reduced charges are a small precise tool for those who need it the most. It gives a quick look at the other end, either through a cut in welfare or through a policy that will increase interest rates more than it would otherwise have done. A good charging system should contribute to better resource use in society as a whole. Similarly, the distribution policy must also be seen together. In autumn 2010, the Progress Party proposed in its alternative state budget to reduce user charges by a quarter of a gallon. As early as May 2011, the proposals to reduce the same charges by two kronor litres and to introduce a flexible charging system in which charges are constantly changing in the direction of the oil price. The current fiscal spokesman of the Progress Party has previously been positive about moving car charges from purchase to use. Today, however, we are considering a new proposal for lower user charges. I believe it is an important principle that the tax regime is adopted in the context of the State budget, with effect for an entire year at a time. In the context of the climate agreement, the majority agreed on moderate increases in fuel taxes in 2009. Car charges are the most important of excise duties. Predictability is desirable in this area in the future, and I believe that this predictability is ensured through the comprehensive review of car charges in the 2012 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2275	Norway is a long-distance country, and many depend on driving to get away from daily tasks, such as getting to work, delivering in kindergarten, taking care of older family members, etc. In business, freight costs are also a significant factor. In recent times, petrol prices have stabilised above NOK 15 litres for unleaded petrol, while in some places with low competition, prices can be fully priced at NOK 17 litres. Often it is that in places with high prices, the collective offer is absent due to low population density, which means that the population and business are forced to use private cars. Written questions to Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen, answered on 9 February 2012, show that an increase in the 2012 oil price of USD 10 per barrel, NOK 58 at today’s exchange rate, will result in an increase in the country’s net cash flow of less than 27 billion. kr in 2012. By comparison, a reduction in the taxes on petrol and diesel for one krone will mean an annual proceeds for the State of about 3 billion. kr. The high prices of fuel are not only due to high profits at the refuelling stations. The profit is about 65 øre per litre of petrol sold, i.e. a margin of 4.3 pst. This is a little bit higher than on the continent. Statoil Fuel & Retail itself states that they have a gross profit margin of 37 øre per litre in Central and Eastern Europe, where there is strong price war between gas stations. Norway’s geographical location with scattered refuelling stations may be one of the reasons. So it's not gross profit that's caused by the high prices, although it might be a potential for improvement in competition. A large proportion of petrol prices are State charges. Gasoline and diesel are subject to a so-called user charge of SEK 4.69 per litre for sulphur-free petrol, a CO2 charge of 89 øre per litre, plus a VAT rate of 25 pst., where the crown amount depends on the selling price. So for a petrol price of 15 kroner per litre, the charge is 8.58 kroner, or 57 pst. The Progress Party believes that it is now in place to reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel. The proposers refer to the 2012 Alternative State Budget of the Advance Party, which proposed a reduction of fuel taxes by one krona per litre from 1 January 2012. In 2011, the Competition Authority published a report on the Norwegian fuel market. It shows that more and more consumers trade petrol in low-priced days and that the price level varies considerably from place to place. It's good that we act when it's the lowest price. The study reinforces the perception that local competition has a lot to say about the price of petrol and diesel. The report shows that the number of competing stations locally decreases the level of prices, even in areas with initially low prices. The scarcity of areas regulated for service station purposes can be a limiting factor for optimal competition. The proposers believe that a review of the framework conditions for the good competitive environment of the petrol station industry should be carried out with a view to removing public barriers. The proposers assume that a fee reduction plan, together with a strengthening of competition in the fuel station market, will bring benefits to consumers from the substantial reduction in fees. At a time when price levels differ more and more between Norway and outside Europe, the peculiar charges will make the situation even worse for business. In particular, this will apply to enterprises that are far from the market. On this basis, I address the proposals I have referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2306	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2309	The right is at the climate agreement we entered into in the previous period. There we went in the opposite direction of what the Progress Party proposed. We agreed to increase the fuel tax and increase the car diesel tax. Now new negotiations are in progress, and when the right has repeatedly said that we are on the agreement, that means, among other things. That we will vote against 6 billion. kr in cheaper petrol and diesel for consumers. It is the sample surface of the proposal of the Progress Party for two kronor at a reduced petrol price. The right has said: Yes, the state is taking too much into account in taxes and taxes, both because the rates are high, and because the growth in the Norwegian economy in a number of areas has led to an increase in the tax base. Of course, some of the increased tax base must also be used by the country to pay the increased costs that result in people moving into Norway, people living longer in Norway, and people living longer. On top of that, the country has a significant increase in tax receipts that are strictly unnecessary. It could be used to stimulate other activities. If the Right would prioritize 6 billion. kr – as we do to a large extent in our alternative state budgets, and in the revised budget that will be presented soon – we would prioritise the 6 billion. for growth-enhancing measures. For example, if we take into account the dynamic effects of removing the wealth tax, it is equivalent to – as the next case is going to be – for example. the entire working capital part of the taxes on wealth. That would therefore be a priority for the Right. 2 billion. kr takes approx. the entire inheritance fee. We want to take minimum deductions, and that's the way we want to spend money on road construction, police and health. So we have enough of other things to spend on. Then there's an environmental aspect of this. The rapporteur refers to price statistics that say that in relative terms, Norwegians do not spend more money on petrol and diesel than we did before. This means that due to the large queues into the big cities – Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger – and to the small and medium-sized cities around Norway, where traffic is tight, it is a point to stimulate more money for the T-Bahn, the urban railway, trains and, of course, roads, which avoids queueing. We in the Right don't think 6 billion. kr at lower petrol prices is the way to go, although of course it is popular with a lot of people. But it's not always the popular measures that are the ones that are needed or that give the best effect. When it comes to making political prices, as I see it, the Progress Party now wants to do with the petrol prices – $2 this year, maybe something else next year – it's not like all the price cuts that come with a tax reduction will benefit consumers. Something will benefit the gas station owners, which of course will benefit the oil companies. Then that means the 6 billion. kr will not always be used in the best interests of consumers, if that is the motivation. I believe that when you look at the profits of the oil companies – now we see that Statoil's petrol stations were just sold – that's not exactly the price it says whether they should get it profitable or not. Otherwise, the Committee has actually taken the second point of the proposal from the Progress Party, namely to look at competition in the petrol station market – how it actually has regional consequences and price consequences. There you should actually be able to do a good job, and there I feel that the case rapporteur has come to a good meeting of the Progress Party. So the right has gone into it. All in all, I think it's a bad idea to use 6 billion. NOK when we have so much other fun to spend the money on. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2328	There's a lot of ways to have fun, so it's an important topic. As mentioned, there is a two-part proposal. A phasing-out plan for taxes and charges has not been reportedly supported by the Centre Party, for one has to have fees to correct the market, not least environmental taxes. It is at the heart of the future for any responsible leader. When it comes to how the competition works, I just want to stress that there has been a good job done by the case-rapporteur, Mr. Dag Ole Tegen. It's good that we look at it, because how does competition work? Well, the competition works very badly. There is no direct link between what's cost and what's out there in the shops. There is today a large cross-subsidisation from the districts with few gas stations to cities with several gas stations, because the competitive conditions are weak in the districts and strong in the central districts. That's what it's been for over ten years, as far as I've been involved in the topic, and it's still not done anything. It is therefore gratifying that a unanimous committee has now pointed out that the Competition Authority should ‘prioritize to follow closely the development of prices and competition in that market in the future’. It's a formulation that I hope matters and makes a behavioral change in the business of the Competition Authority. The gasoline owners have little power over the prices, as far as I know. On the other hand, oil companies and chains have great power. I would therefore encourage the Minister of Finance to ask the Competition Authority, if it is outside the scope of the Ministry of Finance, to look at the centre/periphery issue in this area. For the Central Party, it is essential to do something about this. If we are to manage to maintain the support generally at the high charges in the area, those who pay the high prices must see that there is a greater degree of fairness between the prices that have to be paid in the centre, compared to the prices paid in the districts. This is a repetition -- it's been up many times. To date, the Competition Authority has not, in my opinion, grasped it in a way that is worthy of them, so I hope that the Minister of Finance in his statement can point out that this is a theme that the government will go deeper into and act more firmly in relation to, than has happened so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2339	I can very much join the rapporteur's posts and just make a few comments in addition. As regards proposal No: 2, in order to ask the Government ‘to review the premises for competition in the service station industry’, the Committee, as has been mentioned, has given its broad agreement that there is every reason to look at it. As a result, the Progress Party has had a major impact on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 1, to reduce the fees on fuel, it is not a big surprise for the Progress Party that there is a little bit longer between the aid. It doesn't come from the Christian People's Party either, if anyone thought so. I also refer to the climate agreement that has been agreed here in the house, and assuming that the environment requires that we actually have incentives to avoid using a car as much as you would otherwise. It's going in a completely different direction than what this proposal here represents. Let me also say that since the setting was written, the market has worked, and the price of petrol has well gone down around NOK 1.50, as far as I know – at least based on the pump prices I have seen. So the market works in relation to the oil price, which, after all, is the starting point for what price we have on fuel. Then to the representative, Kambe. It was a bit interesting to hear the right talk about why you don't want to reduce taxes – then you listen a little bit extra – and then the sum of the whole thing was that it was ‘so much other fun to spend the money on’. Now it's actually like there's a lot of quality of life in having fun. Now, after decisions from here and after the initiative of the Christian People's Party, the Minister of Finance is going to come up with quality of life parameters, so here it's really a nice play on how we can get this to the coming state budget. Finally, I would just like to point out an item you have to bring with you when you might want to go in to adjust the fees: what has made us get more greedy cars in terms of fuel? I think that we have charges that have contributed to the emergence of more fuel-rich options for the car park. Thus, it is not that you necessarily spend so much more money on fuel than you did before, as you had petrol extinguishers of rank. So proposal No. In part, 2 have been passed on. We cannot support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2358	The President has not found that he would object to the use of the word ‘good’, but would point out that the link between money and fun may be something the Minister of Finance will reserve himself against. We'll hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2361	It depends a little on what you spend your money on. I'm not quite sure if I'm going to include robbery in the quality of life index, which we're now working on, but it could be tempting, a little bit in the light of the debate we're having right now. What is important — this is also a kind of repetition, the desire to reduce the fuel tax and create a plan for it — and, as many people have been involved here, there has been no change in the real level of taxation since 2001. Then the fee was reduced. Then there was a fee increase in the climate agreement, which the representative Kambe had in place, in 2008, where an increase in the fee on petrol by 5 cents, and car diesel by 30 cents – if I don't remember completely wrong. So it's important to keep it with you. It is also important to bear in mind that in the current year's budget we have announced a switch to a more general user charge, where all fuel is to be charged user charges according to the energy content by 2020, and that in 2015 we will evaluate the exemptions from the user charge. In other words, we have a plan that is uplifted in Stortinget – how we will try to design predictable future car and road taxes. I would also like to stress what the representative of the Syversen had to say, that it is all right and therefore a small cross of thought in this debate that here a liberalist party like the Progress Party will intervene and regulate the market mechanism. That's interesting in itself. As pointed out by the representative Syversen, the market mechanism has now turned on by the fact that fuel prices have changed downwards, as a result of a lower price of crude oil – which drove prices up from April last year to April this year. It's important to make the market economy work in some areas as well, and it looks like it works here. So a little bit about the competitive situation in the fuel market. The proposers propose that the government assess the competitive situation and propose improvement measures. Competition authorities have been leading the fuel market for a long time. This is because fuel is an important asset for households and businesses. They will also follow the market closely in the future. In 2010, the Competition Authority carried out an investigation into the conditions affecting competition and thus also the level of prices in the fuel market. The findings show that the number of stations is important for local competition. Furthermore, the number of chains is important for the price pattern observed. Unserviced stations also play a positive role in price competition. It is therefore important that there is local competition in order to have real competition in this market. Competition surveillance is about to launch a new project to analyse competition in the fuel market. There shall be a follow-up to the 2010 report and the purpose of the project shall be, inter alia: to examine the margins of fuel in the Norwegian market and examine competition locally. It's an important job. We trust, on the part of the government, that the Competition Authority will implement the measures necessary to monitor the market. In addition to the job that the Competition Authority should now have said they would do, I do not feel the need to make further efforts to do so, but of course we will follow closely. We will also follow closely the work that the Competition Surveillance Authority is now going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2378	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2392	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2401	It is not always a good thing to be the case rapporteur for a case at Stortinget, but this time there has been a great deal of experience, because the Finance Committee has actually managed to get a unanimous vote on a proposal for a representative. There I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, and I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Finance, who has this time given the Red-Greens the right to vote in favour of the rapporteurs' comments, and also to the Red-Green politicians on the Grand Duchy. This is a matter which has created a lot of uncertainty, ranging from the rural environment, which sets up operating buildings for renting on land, to ways of having an AS in terms of VAT obligations, and the reduction of VAT. It has led to many contacts with the Finance Committee – and certainly also with the Ministry of Finance – that different tax offices have different practices. It has been presented in an exemplary way by the proposers with four good proposals. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I have tried to sew this together in a good way. The right came early and supported these proposals. The right has also made a similar proposal to this effect, which will probably also be discussed in due course. I feel that the committee has a good cooperation. The point is that it is important for the Financial Committee to experience the level of taxation both fairly and fairly, as well as to ensure that the rules are as simple and transparent as possible and simpler than they are today. Today, the simplest measure for all parties is clearly the imposition of a general VAT obligation on the rental of real estate. So that obligation is an obligation demanded by the Progress Party supported by the Right. As others have pointed out, not all tax reliefs are automatically applied to the Right and the Advance Party, but the point of this is that you get a clearer regulation and, of course, also that when you pay VAT on one side, you get a deduction from VAT on the other side. It is usually the deduction side that has led to legal proceedings and major consequences for those who have not filled out the forms correctly. The Committee considers that current legislation is justified in view of its unbridled, unnecessary complexity and negative economic consequences in the event of incorrect use of the form. The Minister of Finance, in a fairly good, comprehensive and concrete letter to the Committee, has replied that he takes this seriously, and that he aims to return to the Stortinget with the changes in the rules that Stortinget actually demands not only in the proposal but also in the remarks. It is not so often that the government feels that what comes from the Storting is reasonable. It is impressive, I think, that the representatives of the Progress Party are also involved in the decision and are waiting with their proposal. It is a good cooperation that has been achieved, which I, as rapporteur of the case, think should have happened more often in several committees on the Stortinget, and that the government has a searching collaboration with the Stortinget – not just rejection. So it's okay. I hope that is a new attitude from the Minister of Finance, that when there are good proposals – objectively good, of which there are many, often the better proposals from the Stortinget than from the government – I think it would have been good to have better cooperation in most committees, when the government experiences constructive proposals from the Storinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2422	I understood that the president didn't like that we used the word "good," but it has to be in a good mood. I have to say that I was in a better and better mood when I first started to read the letter from the Minister of Finance, then followed what happened in the Committee, and the work that the rapporteur has done. So I was in a very good mood, and it's not that often I will be when we deal with Document 8 proposals from the Progress Party. I want the Council of State to meet several of our excellent proposals in the same way. The tax system shall provide revenue to the country for the operation of important joint tasks. It is important that the level of taxation is perceived as fair and fair. The regulatory framework should be as simple and transparent as possible and taxpayers should not be penalised for accidental errors. The rules on voluntary registration for rental of listed buildings in the VAT register in many cases create problems and unnecessary fees for traders. The main problem is that the rules are strict, without the rapporteurs finding that this is well justified. The economic consequences of boredom can be great. The proposers wish to rectify this. The proposers also consider that it should be considered to impose a general VAT obligation on the rental of immovable property for taxable activities. Taxable activities are enterprises in the VAT register. So there will be no VAT on the rental of dwellings. The purpose of the VAT Act is that the turnover of goods and services to the consumer is subject to charging, usually by 25 pst. There are some exceptions in the law that list goods and services which are not subject to charging. This applies, inter alia, to: sale and rental of real estate. Such turnover is initially defined as exempt from the law. A challenge arises when a trader who invests in building for use in its own fee-based activities is deducted from the VAT paid, while no deduction is made if you invest in a building for rental or sale. It basically means that it would be unprofitable for a purchaser/tenant to buy or rent a building that others have set up. This is because the investment, the rental basis, will also include the value added tax, which is not deducted. If you had set up the house yourself, you would have been deducted. In order to partially remedy this, the legislator has created two special rules in the law. One gives the possibility to register voluntarily in the VAT register as the lessor of barley, so that the lessor of barley becomes subject to VAT for the lessor. The lessor could then charge the fee related to construction costs and maintenance reimbursed. In addition, the legislator has introduced the so-called adjustment rules. This includes, inter alia: the fact that a taxable person who has invested in a building for use in its own taxable activities and has therefore been reimbursed the levy based on it may sell to another person who is required to carry out a taxable activity in the construction without having to pay the VAT back to the State. This assumes that the purchaser assumes the obligation the seller had to pay this part of the levy if the building or parts of it is used outside the taxable business within 10 years of the construction or cost being made. The obligation is escalated by one tenth each year after construction was carried out. It was therefore a great pleasure that the Committee received letters from the Minister of Finance, where he wrote the following: ‘I therefore agree with the proposal in principle made by the proposers that a general VAT obligation should be assessed when renting real estate to VAT-based activities. However, in my opinion, the investigation should be wider and examine whether the rules can be improved for several enterprises engaged in the business of real estate.» It is also gratifying that an overall committee agrees with the proposers and that the Minister of Finance comes back with a proposal for changes based on the consultation and discussions with market actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2444	It is always important to listen to good speeches and suggestions, and in various debates today we have already reached two; one is the quality of life index – to use that expression – and the other is the proposal that we are discussing now. But issuing a kind of blank authorisation for the future I'm a little careful with, and it's said that one of my predecessors should have said on one occasion that I promise nothing, but I'll keep that. But here it is in favour of what is contained in the proposal. I think that’s good – which more people have been about. I should just like to make a few comments on the actual progress of the work. It is important as it is also pointed out in the setting, that one is now conducting an investigation in consultation with the industry. The Tax Directorate will have a central role to play in this, and they will have meetings with the industry in a report to be submitted to the Ministry in due course, in order to provide the best possible basis for decision-making and to make good representations to the consultation note that the Ministry will make on the matter. Furthermore, with regard to the next round of the Stortinge, I aim to be able to present legislative changes in the 2014 budget, i.e.: one has to devote some time to consultation and preparation, but this may be put on the table in the autumn of 2013 in the context of the 2014 budget. There are also input from the proposers on what kind of information in the VAT registration should be posted on the Brønn Island Health Registers website. I will also take that with me in the further work. Some of the points are to make this easier, while also ensuring control. But I intend – as quickly and as best as possible – to follow up on the proposal that Stortinget is now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2459	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9 and 10 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2486	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2495	These two proposals currently under consideration by the Storting are, to a large extent — at least in sum — about the liquidation of the property tax, both on working capital and non-working capital. That's a lot of the same arguments that I assume the actors will promote separately. The majority have indicated that the proposals are not to be adopted, and the minority well explain its views on the matter. They're slightly divided, as we can see from the setting. There are four reasons why at least government parties are ringing around to be able to print property taxes and to have it as an established arrangement. The first thing I want to point out, especially given the political background of the proposers and the willingness to actually spend money, is that this is an important part of how we finance our well-being. Being able to collect taxes here, but also in other areas, is essential in terms of funding well-being. I belong to those who do not get the calculation of the Progress Party to jump from day to day – whether there are proposals here in the Chamber, proposals in alternative budgets, or if there are proposals in public space – when the required needs come forward. The level of taxation we have represents a significant part of our welfare funding, and in this way also the wealth tax – well, 13 billion. kr – an important support for funding what we see is important. Let me also tease and say: I believe that much of the funding is going on, among other things. Thanks to the inclusion of wealth taxes, once again contributes to facilitating business activity, but is also an important prerequisite for the achievement of the purely welfare tasks of society. So this presentation that removing the property tax is an argument almost – in isolation – to make it easier for business, is not something I immediately buy. The second argument, which is important for the red-green parties, is that the ability of the tax system to distribute more fairly is a fundamental challenge for Norway – to raise money, of course, but also to contribute to the fact that differences in our society remain as small as possible. It's a great value in itself, and it also prevents basically a lot of social tension, and it prevents many challenges that we see that other countries have, where there are significantly greater differences in how people live. In this way, the tax on wealth is an extremely important instrument for continuing a line in which the most important people have to pay the most. It also contributes – which is the third argument – to trust and legitimacy linked to the tax system, and also to how we govern the public, by experiencing that you actually have to pay according to your ability. And I also want to show that no taxes are completely – a hundred percent – fair. That shows a lot of fiscal debates. It is not that the government and the red-green parties, almost Catholic, have chosen to preserve the wealth tax and say that this is the way it should be forever. The measures taken in the last few years on the part of the government have shown that they have just taken action to make it fairer and to avoid the impact of taxes on wealth that could affect, among other things. those which have at least, in a cool way. Raising the bottom line as significantly as we have done, where a significant proportion of us in Norway have avoided paying property taxes, a halved population, is a good example of adjusting arrangements to make them fairer. I could also mention how to value. Finally, a little bit about working capital. It's in the setting. We believe that it is inappropriate to limit working capital to working capital. It will make it difficult, not only for control reasons, but also because it could allow for circumvention. We believe that exempting property taxes from working capital is a poor way of setting up taxes on wealth, and that is why the majority in this case has held that we do not adopt the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2517	Now I understand why the committee insisted on having one debate together. For none of the four reasons mentioned by the applicant's rapporteur, which were important for why the red-greens want to defend the wealth tax, the wealth tax applied to working capital. Therefore, I would challenge the case rapporteur to come up with one reason, one reason, why one wants to continue and maintain the wealth tax on working capital – as the only country in the OECD.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2522	I was just in the middle of working capital at the end of my post, I'd like to repeat it. So that's one of the things. for inspection purposes, that we consider it inappropriate to break this down. It is also such that the foundation of the entire tax on wealth will be weakened. The money you get as a wealth tax on working capital is as valuable as the ones you would get on other objects. If you think and believe that the Norwegian tax system, and therefore the wealth tax, is so unfortunate for Norwegian business, you should read the Evening Post from last Friday once again, where you describe over two pages the good growth you have in the private sector, where you have quadrupled growth and increased significantly the number of jobs in many industries, which shows that there are good conditions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2529	The rapporteur said in his statement that the wealth tax had been taken into account in order to make it even fairer. My claim is that the grips you have taken – that is, by raising the minimum deduction, removing stock discounts and all the grips – are a direct attack on Norwegian private ownership. The rapporteur himself comes from a state that is almost branched. We don't have ownership, and we have very few companies owned locally. My question is: does the rapporteur think it makes sense for District Norway to be capped for possible risk capital through a tax on Norwegian jobs owned by Norwegians living in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2536	Now I am tempted to describe some of the situation in our home district, since the representative Gundersen was inside it. It's not that you don't have ownership. Of course, you wear in many areas, but it's not that bad. That's where our paths divide. So we don't believe what the representative, Gundersen, is now festering, that raising the bottom line was almost an attack on private ownership. It shows very clearly what kind of line the Right has, both in business policy and in welfare policy and distribution policy. If, through clear action, saving over 600 000 Norwegians who have lower incomes and lower wealth than the others, in order to pay property taxes on their own, would be an attack on private ownership, it says more about the Right Policy than about government policy, in my opinion. It's an important distributive act that's taken, and that I fully defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2541	There were no unknown tones from the Workers' Party in Storberget's posts. I would essentially challenge the Storberget and the Workers' Party a little bit that there is a difference between removing the entire wealth tax and removing the wealth tax on working capital. I am aware that the opposition does not make the big impression on the representative Storberget or on the red-green alliance, but LO leader Roar Flöthhen said last autumn that one had to look at the wealth tax on working capital, because there could be reason to believe that it now threatened Norwegian industrial development and Norwegian jobs. With the knowledge of Norwegian business and Norwegian workplaces of the LO manager, does the representative Storberget believe that it has been completely removed from the air?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2546	All right, first of all, it's quite obvious that no unknown notes are served in this debate. It's been up many times, and it's one of the debates where there might be the brightest fronts and the brightest arguments. We get to respect each other for the differences, but I am not of the opinion that the wealth tax on working capital is today the major obstacle to the development of Norwegian industry and Norwegian business. I think the numbers I referred to instead are a very good proof of that. In the last year, when Europe has been in crisis, Norway has thus established 48 000 new jobs in the private sector. It's a quadruple. If you measure from the last decade's perspective, it's a double. I agree with the NHO Director, who says in the evening post that Norwegian business is working under good conditions. Also, I see that all taxes you pay will be a disadvantage in relation to the equity situation, but then there will also be other considerations, including: distribution and financing of the welfare country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2557	Here comes proposal No. 3 to which the Council of State should listen more closely – if it is present – and to which he can adopt. First of all, I need to talk a little about the majority arrogance in the Financial Committee when the Progress Party promotes two separate proposals linked to the taxes on wealth, one against working capital and one against the taxes on wealth in their entirety. Had we waited one week longer to promote one proposal, two debates would have to be held in the main hall. Now we've learned it for the next time – that we're allowing more time between the proposals we're promoting. I think this is unreasonable, when the whole reason for making two proposals is to break out the differences in working capital between the different parties. Not least the representative Lundtägen has said on several occasions that he is opposed to property taxes on working capital, and it was noted that case-rapporteur Storberget spent all his time talking about four principles that relate only to the property tax in its entirety. Enough about that. Today's property tax discriminates against investment in Norwegian industrial activities. There is a special tax on Norwegian ownership in all forms of business activity and must be paid independently of income and liquidity. The largest adverse effect is property taxes on working capital. Today's wealth tax is distorting, is entrepreneurial and leads to socio-economic unhappiness. Property taxes on working capital undermine the desire for strengthened national ownership and an active industrial policy. An overall Norwegian business life took the initiative in 2008 to eliminate the property tax on working capital. The agreement on the need to abolish the property tax on working capital has led to the establishment of the Norwegian Private Ownership Alliance. The alliance consists of the Confederation of Enterprises, the Main Organisation of the Commerce and Services Industry, the Association of Norwegian Authorised Accounting Directors, the Confederation of Norway, the Confederation of Norwegian Fisheries, the Association of Norway's Lastebileier, the Association of Norwegian Forestry, the Association of Norwegian Shipowners, Norskog and the Principal Organisation of Economics — in the case of some. The majority state in a note that with regard to the concept of working capital, there are significant problems of demarcation. The case rapporteur said that it was almost impossible to find out. That's how you write when you don't have ambitions to find a solution. The alliance, as I mentioned earlier, has developed a concrete arrangement for the liquidation of property taxes on working capital and defined working capital as assets working in the business, such as operating assets, stocks, trade receivables, operational liquidity. Excess liquidity, etc. and assets that meet the private needs of the owners, such as: housing, shall not be included. That was one way to define it. Sweden introduced exemptions from working capital in 1991. This system remained unchanged, regardless of the changing governments of Sweden, until the full closure of the property tax on 1 January 2007. After Sweden has removed the taxes on wealth, only France, Spain and Switzerland, alongside Norway, still have taxes on wealth. No other country has a wealth tax that strikes at such a low level and has as little protection for industrial capital as Norway. More and more countries have come to the conclusion in recent years that property taxes are a form of tax with unfortunate effects and have therefore removed them. The removal of property taxes on working capital will increase the profitability of investment in employment in business compared to private property investments. Exemptions from working capital should apply regardless of how the business is organised. As mentioned, the Norwegian private ownership alliance has developed a comprehensive proposal on how to define working capital, and they have been based on the Swedish model. It implies that shares in listed companies are treated as working capital and that net assets are subject to taxation. Debt is assumed to be distributed proportionately between taxable assets and working capital. Excess liquidity is taxed. Property related to personal consumption and saving, which is not part of the business, shall be regarded as taxable assets. Once again, one way to do it. So it's possible to do that. That is the will it lacks – and, of course, the principle that you later get what you call a fair distribution. When you have a federal budget of 1006 billion. NOK and goes with a few hundred billion in profit, it's clear that the 6 billion. It is absolutely vital for the well-being we have in this country. So finally some words about the property tax in its entirety. As a matter of fact, property taxes are a saving tax. It's tax because you haven't spent your money. It's a double taxation. I want to take an example. I mentioned to the representative Lundtegen that I would use him and me as an example. I call the representative Lundteg and me by first name – Per Olaf and Christian. Both serve approx. NOK 750,000. Per Olaf lives soberly and saves much of his income, while Christian lives the happy days of his life and spends his entire income every year. After a few years of economy, Per Olaf has such a large bank account that the state believes he has saved too much and wants some of the money. Christian, on the other hand, lives happy days with consumption, and has no saved money to treasure. Fair? Nope. So a closing paradox. The government is very busy saving for future generations. But it's just in public. Because if private people want to save for future generations – i.e. for the next generations of the family – no, then the state will come and take it. It's just the state that's going to save for the future, and not every family.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2576	The President assumes that the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde intended to address the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2579	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2584	Then it's noted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2589	We have now heard that the Progress Party wants to eliminate the entire wealth tax, which will generate a smaller income of between 13 and 14 billion. kr. The progress team also says that they want to bet a lot on transportation, and especially on the road. Then they want to rule with Right, which again says that they will continue to use the action rule. If, in a hypothetical case, the Progress Party would be forced to prioritize between using 13 billion. kr more on transportation and to use the same to remove the property tax, what would the Progress Party have prioritised?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2594	The representative knows very well that there are no government negotiations in the main hall between parties in a hypothetical future government on what to prioritize. But I am convinced that the Right and Advance Party in a government will come up with far better solutions for the country than the current government does. There is no doubt that infrastructure will be prioritised. Infrastructure is investment for the future, which enables business to compete and makes it easier to sell our goods abroad and thus generate more tax revenue to the public. The exact same applies to the property tax. We will at least eliminate the taxes on wealth on working capital. Then we will have more business activities in Norway. More will go with profits – more corporate taxation. Several goods would be sold abroad — more activity in the economy. Therefore, the Right Party and the Advance Party will rule the country in a much better way than the Red-Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2602	At least I can agree with the rapporteur in one thing, and that is that this is one of the issues in Stortinget where there are clearest fronts. The matter seems to have been locked quite strongly. The Committee on Finance is a little weak when new proposals on taxes on wealth are put forward, so it is clear, at least. It is argued by the red-green side, and by the rapporteur in particular, that the Community must be financed. The tax on wealth is a particularly damaging way of financing it. It is argued with distribution effects that are very unclear. If you go into the material and you want to see, you'll see that the distribution effects of that tax are not very good either. This is a strange tax on Norwegian jobs, owned by Norwegians who live in Norway. You can understand it, whoever wills. Torger Reve was at the country meeting in the Right. He said that there was no longer a debate in academic environments about how harmful the property tax was as it was. He stressed that active owners, multiplicity of private ownership, were an extremely important part of developing forward-looking clusters of businesses in Norway. The state cannot take all roles, and in particular it cannot take on the role of diversity, for example. funding all possible new ideas out there — some of them may become future legs we're going to be on in the welfare community. This is the wealth tax quite effective in attacking. I record red-green representatives going around crying when companies in Norway are sold out of the country. They cry when local communities are affected by private owners not setting up when businesses go bad, and they cry when entrepreneurs have to sell their ideas abroad. This calls for patient private ownership – one should have more patient private ownership. I've seen that a number of times. But how can you be patient when you get a tax of up to 1.1 pst? of values that do not give a return? Then you don't get very patient. If someone is willing to buy it, you sell it faster than you can sign the contract. That's the way we drive ownership out of the country. And if you follow what Torger Reve said, it's a hugely harmful tax in terms of future strong business clusters. I can take an example of a founder who has a really good idea, who is valued highly, and who many people want to be involved in. Then the founder will eventually have to tax values that do not yield, because most will go in and use the profits that you might generate, to develop the company further. If he has been so unfortunate and brought with him non-resident owners, who do not want to take dividends, but who want to use it to develop the company, the founder must eventually sell out and let the foreigners take over, or let other owners take over. I don't see the sense of that. We have a fairly good example in ourselves from abroad. Apple is a fairly well-known company, it should also be in Stortinget. Steve Jobs did not pay one dollar in dividends as long as he sat as owner and as CEO of Apple. It went so far that they raised a cash stock of $100 billion, and the value of the company was $500 billion – and it went over a 20-year period, or something like that. Nordmen couldn't have created this idea – for no matter how much we would have dreamed about it, a Northman wouldn't have had the money to do the same thing. You can understand that if you want – I don't understand. With this I address the suggestions on which the right is included in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2622	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2627	There has been a focus on the relationship between the LO and the Workers’ Party in the past – on LO’s financial support and claims of great influence on the Labour Party’s policies. But today we could read that the Right has received $31 million. kr, from 2008 to 2010, from rich donors. Right-wing contributors can save millions in taxes — and more could even have zero in taxes — if the property tax is abolished by the Right. More than half of the property tax is paid by 2,5 pst. by the richest people in the country. Then my question becomes: Why is the Right’s main priority to give billions of dollars in tax relief to the wealthiest thing in the country – is that what is ‘good’ to spend money on?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2637	I have just tried to explain that, because we want strong, diverse, private ownership in Norway. But we're very concerned that everyone should contribute to the welfare community. We have clear wording on that, and we will be able to find solutions to that. We recognise that the zero-tax problem is there, but we also know that the wealth tax is a very harmful way to solve this challenge. Now I also happen to know the donors who are behind – at least a part – and that is simply a broad popular commitment to strengthening the Right. It's not like there are large donors behind it, it's private people who choose to give small amounts to the Right, and I think that's very happy. It gives a good rooting in Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2644	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2647	In essence, I take the floor to stress what the rapporteur has said in the past, namely the reason why we have this wealth tax – tax on working capital – which is now being debated. We discussed a similar proposal, tabled by representatives of the Right, on 29 March this year. The matter then arose after the Storting had debated the distribution notice. That really fits very well, because these two questions are closely related. With regard to the distribution communication, it was clear in the debate and in the documents that Norway, as a nation, as the only country in Europe after 2005, has made clear the need to reduce the disparities in society. In Sweden, Denmark and the rest of Europe, differences are increasing, while we have managed to reduce differences. And why? Yes, because we introduced this tax that is now being debated. We put it in place, and the main motive was an active policy of distribution – a balancing of differences. If you are at the heart of the debate on this, it is a political choice: is that what is to be given priority?Is that what is at the heart of the policy – the division and cohesion of differences in society – or is that what the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party have argued for, namely the need for tax relief from industry and for tax less? That is at the heart of this whole debate. I am very pleased and proud that the red-green government has managed to contribute to the introduction of a tax system that makes those who have the most, those who have the greatest ability to pay taxes in this country, namely those with the highest wealth and income, now pay taxes – not as it was in the past, that very many of them appeared as zero-tax collectors. So it's clearly a political choice, a political priority that underlies this tax, and there's no need to wind it up, but I'm recording that here the fronts are very clear. If we get a new majority on the Storting, this tax will gradually be removed, and we go back to the conditions we had under the previous bourgeois government, where we had increased differences, and where we had zero-tax contributors among them with the greatest tax ability. We don't want it like that. That's why we're going against abolishing this tax. In conclusion, I would just like to stress that it has created the impression that Norwegian business is going badly, that we have major problems, that we have major challenges. This is not the reality. More jobs are created now than ever before. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Norway is a country where things are going very well. That is why the challenges referred to by parts of the business community, all of which are agreed on, are not justified. They do not have their cause in the taxes on wealth. They are responsible for the international crisis and the lack of demand for goods and services from parts of industry. We agree. However, there are completely different ways — and many other ways — to solve these problems, these challenges, rather than to eliminate the wealth tax. That is why my conclusion is quite clear: it is the basis of a political choice. There is a political priority, namely that of balancing differences, that those with the greatest ability to pay taxes should also be involved and contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2664	There are joyous things that have happened to the property tax in this reigning period. Overall, we have had reduced income from property taxes through a redistribution of property taxes, through a change in the valuation base and a sharp increase in the bottom line. Now the discount per taxpayer is NOK 750000. For two taxpayers, that's 1.5 million. kr. For example, one has to have a significant amount of housing in order to get into such an amount. It's a change that has pleased the many. At the same time, today's tax on wealth is such that they still cause some wonder. There are very many people with high taxable income over many years who do not have any wealth. The most common way to get into such a position is to invest in dwellings and cabins – dwellings and cabins, not dwellings and cabins. The valuation rules, in accordance with the Norwegian model, where it was important to facilitate the individual's ability to own his or her own dwelling, have been exploited, abused, in such a way that there is now too favourable a valuation of investments in dwellings and cabins. There is a clear area that one should look at, in order to better align what was intentional with what is reality today. With regard to the purpose of the property tax, I have said many times from this pulpit and will repeat: the purpose of the property tax was an additional tax on labourless income in excess of a certain amount. It was the complementary ability principle of the progressive income tax. Everyone agrees that income tax is the fairest tax. The impression here is that all batches are for progressive income tax. But they're not when it comes to the problem, for example. the red-greens want to enhance the progressiveness of those with high incomes. With regard to the content of the taxes on wealth relating to the concept of working capital, it is right that there are demarcation problems. But the problems of demarcation are, in the opinion of the Centre Party, solvable. Obviously they are solvable, but it is clear that any demarcation has its challenges. What's the discussion here is that especially the party on the right has a lot of interest in attacking the property tax. The international right-wing parties are clear on the alternative to the property tax. It is property tax, a property tax that is independent of income and independent of liabilities. It is guided only by the market values of the property tax item. As the case rapporteur for the housing tax question in 1996, I found that there is something the Norwegian population is skeptical about – to put it diplomatically – the introduction of property taxes based on market values. That's at least what you can suggest, and then you'll put big groups in Harmony. The conflict in the issue of taxes on wealth is related to financial capital, in its basic unit. The financial assets will remove the property tax and collect the property tax. The main business organisation of the financial industry says it quite clearly. NHO's management has also said that. I am not surprised that Torger Reve says there is no debate in academic environments about property taxes. But the academic environments are at least honest and say that their alternative is property tax. It's more than the right hand parts dare to say. It is now important to have a discussion on the content of taxes on wealth. The government has done a good job. Significant things can also be done further. The principle is: you shall not levy taxes on property income for which there is no coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2681	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2684	We have heard throughout the debate that there are fairly clear fronts in the staging room, but that is not out of the question. The centre party has, in many ways, perfected double communication in particular with respect to taxes on wealth on working capital. Lundtigen's party leader has been outside several times and has said that there is a majority on the Stortingen to remove the property tax on working capital, but today the Centre Party is going to vote against removing the property tax on working capital. So my question is, where does the majority that the Central Party is flying around land and beach and talking about exist on the Storting, and that is to eliminate the wealth tax on working capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2691	The centre lot has a clear position on property taxes. Our position is that it is not right to have property taxes on working capital, for example in the meaning of operating resources. What's the problem, the way working capital is defined in the setting of the grouping we've referred to here several times, is that, for example, operating capital and shares are included. If one uses that definition of working capital, it would be to undermine the whole point of the property tax in a few years, and that is also something the opposition has recognised.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2696	I choose to refer to a blogger in this line, Silje Vallestad, who has started up Bishop, a Norwegian technology company. She writes under the heading «Help – I am rich!» that she has invested everything of time and free capital. She took out moderate wages and went long without. She does not have a fat economy, but three children and was the first owner of housing in 2006. Dividends are not taken out, because a company like Bipper doesn't exist. Everything that comes in is invested in further operations and growth. Bipper still has red numbers, it's perfectly normal for a company like hers. But she's got some wealth, hundreds of thousands she's going to pay in taxes on wealth. She has several possibilities: Take up private loans with mortgages in the home – but it doesn't work, it costs money. Take out dividends – but she doesn't have any profits. Where is she going to take dividends from? Sell their shares – which is established in a company that has already sold itself down? What kind of alternative would Per Olaf Lundtigen recommend such a founder?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2713	I would recommend the founder to continue with his nocturnal consumption. I would recommend that he develop his business further. I recommend that the founder see that what one here pays in taxes on wealth, and when that time comes, in inheritance tax, is a small refund on the situation in which the founder has lived and lives, under very stable and good framework conditions in Norway. That's the social contract we have in Norway, and I want to say that the alternative for the entrepreneur, the property tax of the right-hand party, is much worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2718	The representative, Arve Kambe, was about to vote twice over the last draft constitution, but this time we have to deal with the fact that the representative, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, has also asked for a line. So that's going to be the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2721	When referring to property taxes on working capital of the representative Lundtigen, he says that if it is to be removed, one must have property taxes. That's how he expressed it, and as the right parties wanted, he even said in the last line. But as I understand it, the representative Lundtigen has also previously believed that removing property taxes on working capital would have positive ring-fenced effects. You're talking here like you have to replace 6 billion. kr, as if you have to take 6 billion. kr elsewhere. That's not the point. The point of removing the wealth tax on working capital is to make business function better, create jobs, produce products, improve competitiveness and sell things abroad to the export industry. That's the whole idea of removing the property tax on working capital. Does Lundtägen not believe that if you remove the wealth tax on working capital, will Norwegian private business go better, produce more and create jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2729	It is true that taxpayers live in Norway as taxes to Norway, who pay taxes on wealth. This means that those who own a business abroad in Norway do not pay taxes on wealth, that is correct. What I've said is that by removing property taxes, the alternative will be property taxes. That's what the international system is. You don't have to charge property taxes if you take away the property tax, but that's what other countries do and have done, so it's strange if it doesn't come in Norway as well. In the case of working capital, the definition of the central party is such that property is not included in working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2738	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2741	As the rapporteur pointed out, this is not an attitude that is marked by great surprises. The majority reject any attempt to do something about the taxes on wealth, with slightly different values of resistance, I have to say. Because it is clear that the Center Party has a starting point that is quite similar to that of the Christian People's Party, that the wealth tax on working capital should be removed, even though Lundtigen has some limitations – I might call it – that differ slightly from ours. The Christian People's Party has previously made proposals during this period to eliminate the taxes on wealth on working capital, and it is interesting that the majority, i.e. the red-green, used the following argument to reject our proposal. It was then written that ‘property taxes, together with income taxes, are the decisive means of ensuring taxes according to their capacity’. Let go that it may be an argument for property taxes in general, but that is an argument against removing property taxes on working capital, I cannot understand, even when I hear the representative Lundtigen. The truth is that property taxes on working capital are a tax that affects investments that actually secure jobs. It is this situation that I am convinced that LO leader Roar Flåthen had in mind when he said last autumn just what I said in the line change with the case rapporteur, that that part of the property tax is in the process of threatening Norwegian jobs and Norwegian industry. I don't think Flåthen says that because he has a lot of love for those who have big fortunes. This is because he is engaged in Norwegian jobs — in other words, the jobs of his own members to a large extent. I had really hoped that the red-green representatives would at least have been able to discuss a little bit more and a little bit more if there were the effects of this property tax that you should do something about. I don't think it's time yet, but hopefully it will come. Norwegian business is doing well. That's not what this is about. In fact, we had a hearing a few hours ago when the central bank manager clearly said that the situation is now that parts of Norwegian business are being out-competitive – for several reasons – but that suggests that the framework conditions are also being looked at. When can you look at the framework conditions? It is precisely when you have good times, and you can make priorities to ensure Norwegian jobs and Norwegian industry in the longer term. So it's also a little striking that in one moment you defend the wealth tax with all the instruments, almost, and then in the next moment there are representatives from the red-greens who stand and boast of how many who have escaped to pay property taxes in the last few years using the red-greens. I think at least you have to decide: is it a very important tool to ensure distribution in Norwegian society, or isn't it? It can't be that those who vote for the red-green and have a fortune at a special level are going to let go, and then are you satisfied? Because you almost get the impression that that's the way you're running the property tax now. So to the attitude: we have a strong eagerness to get rid of the wealth tax on working capital, but we realize that it would be a little daring to remove it from 1 January 2013. This may also require a little more in the case of pre-workers, for example. to see how the demarcations should take place. So as far as the suspension is concerned, we are going away from supporting the publisher to remove the property tax from 1 January 2013, and will rather vote to attach that protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2761	It is with some wonder that I hear the representative of the Syversen who so eagerly argues to remove a large proportion of the property tax, which in the next round will challenge the entire wealth tax and thus weaken the distribution policy. The Christian People's Party has a good distribution policy profile in its alternative budgets and thus clearly distinguishes itself from the other right parties. However, an exemption from so-called working capital will completely reverse the Christian People's Party's fiscal distribution policy. What does the representative of Syversen consider to be the most important, to remove parts of the property tax or to penalise a redistributive tax system?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2768	I guess that's where we split up layers. I can't actually see that removing the wealth tax in the workplace is actually a problem of distributive distribution. On the contrary, I think it is a good distributive act to provide for a wealth tax that taxes those who take out wealth for their own consumption, but do not tax the crowns in the company that create jobs. That's why I think more people in red-green clay, including the LO leader, see that although there's a lot of rhetoric about the tax on wealth, and that this is what we're going to do now is actually even more important with a tax system that makes sure you have a good business that can secure Norwegian jobs. We need to face that with the future that we have in front of us, and as I and the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen agree that we need Norwegian business to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2773	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2776	Norway is one of the few countries that still have taxes on wealth. Many countries have abolished this tax, for example: Sweden under the Social Democratic Government. The rationale for the winding-up in Sweden was the same as the Left in terms of the property tax here in Norway. The tax on wealth has a number of unfortunate long-term effects on saving and investment and is a direct obstacle to stimulating an innovative Norway. In particular, the tax on wealth increases unnecessarily the tax burden on many start-ups. This, in conjunction with the so-called active industrial policy of the government, which is essentially about increasing the state ownership of Norwegian business, gives us a development that does not stimulate a widespread Norwegian ownership of Norwegian business, but a ownership policy that favours public and foreign ownership. The left wholeheartedly supports the tax reform adopted by the Bondevik II Government, which would gradually eliminate the property tax as a counterpart to the imposition of dividend tax. This was a comprehensive reform that was also supported by industry, which gave this change in tax sizes. It is regrettable that the government has not followed up that part of the reform, but rather uses the wealth tax as a symbol of a political rhetoric to punish the rich. It is a fact that small and medium-sized Norwegian enterprises will often depend on capital from Norwegian investors. High taxation on savings can therefore limit access to capital for that part of the economy, so that both business and socio-economic projects are not implemented. In the context of the introduction of the screening method, which led to an increase in the tax on equity income, it was a prerequisite for the reform of the then government parties that the wealth tax should be reduced and phased out in the long term. This is necessary in order not to increase the overall taxation of capital, which would be contrary to developments in other countries. The left therefore considers that the property tax must be eliminated in the long term, but does not share the view that the first step on the road should be to abolish the property tax on working capital. Here I am more in line with the government: it becomes artificial to distinguish between so-called working capital and other capital in the tax on wealth. It is difficult to find a sustainable definition of what is considered as more working capital than other capital. It was also the attitude of the previous government, which did not prioritize the liquidation of the property tax on working capital before a general liquidation. A liquidation of the property tax should, in the view of the Left, take place as the previous government provided, through reduced rates and higher deductions. If we use the same proceeds as in the case of the liquidation of the property tax on working capital – estimated at approx. 7 B.C.E. NOK – we can set the point of entry in the property tax to approx. Two million. kr, whichever model is chosen. The left considers this to be a more targeted approach to reducing taxes on wealth, because it protects many companies from taxes on wealth, but also because it exempts many minimum pensioners and others with relatively low income from taxes on wealth. The left will therefore continue to work towards gradually phasing out the entire tax on wealth, in order to stimulate a spread of private ownership in Norwegian business, as Norway needs. Finally, some considerations about the entire debate on the property tax. We have – to put it mildly – had that debate many times in recent years, without any mention of it. With the exception of SV – also here today – there is a kind of agreed understanding in all parties that the property tax has a negative impact on Norwegian business. Many in the Labour Party and the LO have set this goal. The centre party has opted to abolish the property tax for its own definition of working capital, while all opposition parties will reduce or abolish the property tax. I therefore invite the Minister of Finance to take an initiative in bringing together the parties – also SV – in order to see if we can agree on a model for the liquidation of the most negative asset tax regime, within a rather provincial neutral framework, for example. through increased dividend taxation. It will strengthen Norwegian business, and it will strengthen confidence in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2795	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2798	In my opinion, the tax regime in Norway should have a distribution effect. Any elimination of taxes on wealth, not just parts of it, but the whole – as the Left will – will create a very distorted distribution, where those with the highest income and wealth will come out far better than those with low and medium incomes. Does the representative consider that a redistribution of the tax system is important? Or does the Left now join the Progress Party and the Right in fiscal policy, so that one should almost completely disregard the distribution effects of the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2805	As we have heard throughout the debate today, there are different opinions about the distribution effect of removing the property tax in the long term. I have a suggestion here. The OECD delivered its recommendations for the Norwegian economy in February. First, they write that there is a senseless tax, and second, that it is fully possible to abolish the wealth tax without making the rich richer and the poorer. They continue to write: ‘Many countries that do not have taxes on wealth have tax systems that operate more favourably than Norwegian ones.’ So there are different opinions, different parties. We – as I said in my post – would like this government to look at what Bondevik II launched in its time, namely to remove the property tax as a counter-post for the imposition of dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2818	It is true that Sweden took away the wealth tax – they took it step by step, and it is now completely gone. It's in line with Left's vision. The big campaign case in several parliamentary elections after the Swedish took away the property tax was what replaced the property tax, namely property tax. As far as I remember, property tax in Sweden was 0.75 pst. of the market value of a house, i.e. NOK 7500 per million that the house was valued at in the market. This issue became so strong and violent that several parties renamed the property tax property tax, without changing the reality. My question is, why doesn't the Left tell this part of the truth about Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2827	As I said to the previous replicant, we want to continue the tax policy launched by Bondevik II, namely to remove the property tax as a counter-post and introduce a dividend tax, a gradual increase in the bottom-up deduction and lower valuation of shares. We think that in the left is a good model. Then we haven't discussed property taxes in the left yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2832	I can see that someone has not discussed property taxes. But my question was: Why does the Left not tell the part of the truth about Sweden that I now referred to, namely that the Swedes did not want the option that was property tax then, or the word property tax? Why does one not tell the whole truth, so that one can inform the opinion in Norway about what is the situation in our neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2837	As I see the replicator now, there's a little frustration that you don't win out in your own government. I know that the Central Party has programmed to remove the wealth tax on working capital, as I said from the pulpit. So I would like to be able to do a little better work within the government, so that in the long term this tax could be removed that allows Norwegian industry to move abroad, and to invest more in property and shares abroad. We want to save Norwegian companies and help entrepreneurs in a difficult investment phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2842	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2845	The debate on taxes on wealth is, of course, a debate that we have at regular intervals here in the Chamber, and that is probably not the last time we discuss taxes on wealth. It's all right, in my view. Then there's someone who's asked what we've done with the wealth tax in the red-green government. Yes, we have made significant changes in the taxes on wealth. Firstly, by increasing the bottom line, we have helped to shield small and medium-sized assets from property taxes at all. The share that pays taxes on wealth is halved – reduced from 34 pst. until 17 pst. of the tax collectors. There are now 500,000 fewer people paying taxes on wealth than in 2006. At the same time, we have increased the progressiveness of property taxes, so that they pay more with large assets, and it has helped to increase the distribution effect of property taxes. It is an important grip from the political point of view of this government. So the tax has become significantly more advantageous. Today's proposal is about so-called working capital. There are various suggestions in the discussion on how to divide capital into working capital and non-working capital. What has happened in Sweden, to which others have been subjected, shows how difficult that demarcation really is, for one of the reasons why one has removed the entire wealth tax in Sweden, is that the demarcation possibilities were too great. In this way, the Left's proposal is better in the sense that one says straight away that one wants to remove the entire wealth tax without going the path of so-called working capital. It is tempting to point out that in the divisions that I have heard so far, still bank deposits are not working capital. A question that is well worth asking is why it must be such that those who make capital available to a bank, which it can lend for commercial purposes, pay taxes on wealth, while those who invest directly in facilities in the company or in shares are to free the property tax. So there are bounds that become one of the challenges. Then it's much more real to say that you want to remove the entire wealth tax, which is probably the ultimate goal of the proposers, as I've seen it – a little plus/minus. I have already mentioned distribution reasons. This is an important tax for distribution purposes. At the same time, I am the first to recognise that there are unfortunate aspects of property taxes that need to be improved, and that the government will work towards the budget, where one presents the tax bill. One of the unfortunate aspects of taxes on wealth may have is that it may affect the investment stock because, for example: are different in the definition of asset values that allow one to experience unfortunate distortions in investment. I want to keep working on getting a better wealth tax and a fairer wealth tax. Finally, I just want to say this: this government is very clear that the property tax is going to be passed on, but that does not mean that everything that has to do with the property tax is high in stone. We've shown that we've been able to work with earlier, and we're going to show that in the future. But we have made the wealth tax a more targeted distribution policy instrument, and – just to name it – removed the stock discount and the 80 pst rule, which gave huge tax relief to the wealthiest. It is important that we do not underestimate the impact of a fair tax system, relatively small differences, on the ability to produce and the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy, and – to refer to the OECD, a view that one is also concerned about there – the importance of the distribution policy as part of creating growth, activity and enthusiasm for growth and activity in different economies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2864	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2867	It's interesting with the state council, which is doing everything he can to problem how difficult it is to separate working capital. I would remind the Minister of Finance that he is actually Minister of Finance, and being Minister of Finance, it follows a large bureaucratic apparatus called the Ministry of Finance. I have worked in the department myself, so I know how hard you work in a department. If the Council of State itself is unable to define what working capital is, I would suggest that one of the many good people working in the Ministry of Finance helps the Council of State to define what working capital is. Then he can come back to the Storting and say, Eureka! I've figured it out! I know what working capital is! What does the Council of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2874	It's a good thing to be reminded of who you are, from time to time, but I have no problem knowing what I'm doing as a finance minister. A finance minister shall have the ability to have several thoughts in his head at the same time. Two important considerations are the need for fair distribution and the need to have a tax system that is effective and good and also of course contributes to the creation of value in Norway. It's not the first time the issue of working capital is up. I had the pleasure of having many discussions about it in my last time as Minister of Finance. I even made inquiries into these experts that the representative Tybring-Gjedde now refers to. Some of the conclusions of the investigations were that this is complicated and that the scope for demarcation is difficult. That's why I think it's a much more honest position to say that you want to remove the entire wealth tax. At least then, the problems of demarcation are avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2881	Silje Vallestad continues in his blog: ‘I am cursed by the taxes on wealth. In my naivety, I thought that wealth taxes were only imposed on those who have wealth, and I have also irritated myself about the rich's sutring over the wealth tax. [[as if there's a sin on them like...]] She has four alternatives that Norwegian female entrepreneurs in a very cost-intensive industry. She has four options to pay taxes on wealth that she does not have available as a minority shareholder. Will the Minister of Finance advise her to raise more housing loans to increase security, increase wages, which she cannot afford, make dividends – the company cannot make dividends – or does he consider female shareholders in Norway who have started businesses to sell their shares in order to pay taxes on wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2891	I am for both female and male entrepreneurs, that they should have good conditions to start businesses, to run businesses, and to be able to work to increase production in Norway. That is why we have an instrument, which is why we are pursuing a predictable economic policy, which makes it the basis for entrepreneurs to start businesses in Norway. That's my answer. Moreover, I do not think it is the role of the Minister of Finance to run either as a tax adviser or as an economic adviser for individuals from the spokesperson of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2899	When the Minister of Finance finished his speech, my near-sider, Tore Nordtun, reiterated that there was a factual contribution from the Minister of Finance, and former tax policy spokespersons from the Workers' Party should be listened to. I basically agree with Tore Nordtun here – it was a matter of fact, because there were at least tendencies to say something about the device today not being problem-free. As far as I understood the Minister of Finance, the challenge is that with today's system, you can risk putting your money in objects other than those that create jobs. My question is then: does the Minister of Finance see an exchange between housing taxation and property taxation in order to deal with the challenges he himself has been talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2906	I think in general that one gets the longest to be factual in most contexts, although there may be a need to kick a little bit in the laps, as it is called, when it is necessary. In order to give a little insight into the everyday life of a Minister of Finance as regards, inter alia: tax issues, there is a balance between having a tax system that builds up under good and reasonable investments and allocation reasons. That's essentially the difficult point of the property tax. In general, I am referred to proposals for the State budget, but in general, the Minister of Finance is a member of the broadest possible tax base, which gives the result – as it did in the 1991 tax reform – the opportunity to adjust rates on a general basis, and then we get back to what happens with the wealth tax in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2913	In my speech, I called for a broad compromise on removing parts of the property tax within a proceeds neutral framework. There are many ways to do this, as I also mentioned in my article, for example. by increasing the dividend tax or by increasing the general tax rate somewhat. Others have pointed to increased taxation of property as an alternative, as was said in the line change here instead. The left would like to participate in such a work and do it with an open mind. For us, it is most important to encourage more people to find it interesting and profitable to invest in Norwegian enterprises and jobs. Is this something that the Minister of Finance finds interesting and wants to take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2920	I have no immediate plans to take such an initiative. On the other hand, I would like to refer to the evaluation of the 2005/2006 tax reform and the broad debate that we had on it in the United Kingdom not long ago. There was also an assessment of the property tax. At present, I have no plans to take such an initiative as the representative Tenden asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2925	We can probably pursue ownership and Norwegian private ownership in the future against the elections, and we are very pleased with that. Over to a slightly different side of the wealth tax, and that is simply the taxation of private savings. We have just had a hearing with the central bank manager today, where he expresses great concern about the development of debt by Norwegian private households, as other representatives have also been involved. In this context, since the OECD Council of State mentioned, the OECD has also done calculations on what the property tax means for normal saving for a normal Northman – then you have over 100 pst. taxation. In view of the sharp increase in private households’ indebtedness, how does the Council of State feel that it makes sense to maintain a tax that is simply destructive to private savings?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2934	Yes, the impact on saving is one of the unfortunate aspects of the property tax that is well worth looking at, and that the government has seen, among other things. by increasing the base deduction, which makes it relatively possible to protect small and medium-sized assets. I think that's an important point. Otherwise it's interesting to read a report that a company called Menon Business Economics has made for, among other things. The NHO and the Shipowners’ Association, where they have surveyed economic activities for 2007–2010 among 190 000 owners. That's about. 100000 that have positive equation values, that's about. 80 000 that pays less than $50,000 in taxes on wealth, that's 1.5 pst. which pays more in dividends and wealth taxes than the annual profit or loss. That study is interesting, because it helps to nuance the image of the impact of taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2941	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2946	It was in particular the firm attempt by the representative Lundtigen to ensure that there had to be a trade-off between property taxes and property taxes, which meant that I would take the floor. There was also a line chord shift with the left here, where you tried to make that connection. I know it's not a parliamentary expression, but it's almost approaching the gift of fear when you're also using developments internationally. We have answers from the Ministry of Finance on just this. In Sweden, taxes on wealth have been removed. The share of property taxes in GDP has also fallen from 0.53 p.m. to 0.33 pst. from 2005 to 2010. In Norway, it has risen from 0.22 pst. until 0,28 p.m., while the red-green government has doubled the taxation of working capital. When Lundtigen and his comrades in the Center Party fly around the country and the beach and say that there is a majority on the Stortingen to eliminate property taxes on working capital, they end up creating an impression of the politics of others that require a change of ownership tax. There's no need for that. I think the Central Party should be open and honest about voting for us to have property taxes on working capital, and stop creating the impression that there is a majority on the Biggest for the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2955	As the representative himself said, ‘the gift of grace’ is not a parliamentary expression. Once the representative has understood that, he should stay too good to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2958	When I asked for the floor, it was to the representative, Gundersen, who said that tax on savings was over 100 p.m. That's wrong. Income tax on interest is 28 pst. And as far as I know, the maximum rate of property tax is 1.1 pst. – so it's not going to be 100 pst. taxation of savings. That being said, the truth is that we're taking inflation with us, today it's not worth saving money in Norway. This is why, combined with the taxation of investment in housing, many invest in housing and lending in housing. When it comes to the relationship between property taxes and property taxes, I have not said that it has to be the exchange ratio. But it's like this around – that's why the Swedes switched to property taxes, that's why one has it in Germany, and that's why it's been in the United States for a long time. As I have said before, it is no coincidence that Americans have many people living in'mobile homes', because as long as you put a wheelwalk under the house, there is no real estate tax in the United States – as a small, fictitious example. What I'm trying to do here is get a more informative word change about the relationship between property taxes and property taxes. The game Right does not want the informative word change. They just want to tell half the truth, to take away the wealth tax, as they've always done, because they've always represented the financial capital. That's not the central party's position; we're primarily representing the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2969	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2973	No then, we do not primarily represent financial capital; we represent the private, diverse ownership around the country that is struggling with a wealth tax. The representative Kambe had an excellent example in the line change. It's a reality that inflation is in society. In fact, price increases have to be taken into account. The property tax, together with capital taxation and inflation, means that you have a real tax of over 100 pst. in ordinary bank accounts in Norway. To Lundteigen: We can sit down and do the math, but the OECD did it for us and described it as a concern to the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2980	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2983	I will take the floor when the representative Gundersen is so steadfast. Taxes are taxes, and price increases are price increases. The sum of taxes and price increases does not make savings in Norway today. That's right, something I said. But the tax on saving money is not 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2990	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e2997	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3005	During the debate, Anders Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council states that it is critical that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre did not seek advice in order to assess his stability in relation to Felix Tschudi in a thorough manner in advance of the Minister for Foreign Affairs’ treatment and the decision to grant six million SEK in grants for the establishment of the Centre for Northern Territory Logistics, where Felix Tschudi became Chairman of the Board of Directors.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3060	Case No. 4, the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on developments in Afghanistan and Norwegian civil and military engagement has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3068	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is actively asking the government to contribute to the spring wage settlement by offering tax reliefs as a basis for a wage settlement agreement that ensures purchasing power development for all and export companies’ competitiveness.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3095	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to present a case to introduce the accruals principle in the public sector, so that public accounts and budgets are no longer carried out on a cash basis, but on the basis of the accruals principle as in private business.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3123	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Representatives of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Inbjørg Godskesen, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Arne Sortevik, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Jørund Rytman to introduce the principle of periodicity in the public sector are annexed to the minutes’.» The Progress Party has announced that they are now supporting the proposal of the Right, Christian People’s Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3145	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a reduction plan for fuel charges and, as soon as possible, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2012, to propose the first reduction of fuel charges.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to examine the premise for competition in the service station industry and to identify any obstacles to effective competition, including those of the public sector. Any improvement measures shall be promoted by the Stortinget.’» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3195	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to bring proceedings for the liquidation of the property tax on all non-working capital assets from 1 January 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3223	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:76 S [[2011-2012]] The Progress Party has announced that it is now supporting the proposal from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3245	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the removal of property taxes on working capital from 1 January 2013.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3273	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:77 S [[2011-2012]] The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they are now supporting the proposal from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-29.ana.ud1162e3407	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
