ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e59	The representative Freddy de Ruiter shall apply for parental leave from 27 February to 11 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Line Vennesland, is invited to meet during the period of leave from 28 February to 8 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e77	Before the matters on today’s map are dealt with, the President will inform that the meeting – if necessary – will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16.00 until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e91	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e105	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches from the main speakers from each party group and from members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e112	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement on Tuesday. I would like to make some points in my speech, while other members of the Committee of the Right will bring others forward. I will first give my and Right full support to the opening part of the Foreign Minister's statement. Economic issues, sovereign debt and restrictions will remain at the top of the international agenda for a long time in the future and will give strong leadership to Norwegian foreign policy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was also strong, clear and correct in his analysis of developments in Europe, the debt crisis and the consequences for Norway and our relationship with our neighbours and friends. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of taking care of our good relationship. He underlined our responsibility for contributing to positive development and communicated the crucial importance of the EU and EU countries for the Norwegian foreign policy, value and culture community and the economic interest community we share. For Norway, our relationship with the EU is reflected in particular in the EEA Agreement. However, in the Foreign Minister's statement, it is a subtle change from the past. Where he has several times started with an accident description of Europe, the importance of our good relationship with Norwegian market access through the EEA comes first. In the Right's view, that's a correct change of focus. From the Right, we hope first of all that the Minister of Foreign Affairs' government colleagues take up his message. The EEA is Norway's lifeline to Europe. It is unfortunate that the violent proliferation of threats to the use of the right of reservation and to hint about theses, which strong forces in the government and in the trade movement are now using to drive a ‘brinkmanship’ to weaken and undermine the EEA Agreement. In contrast to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in the past, it is not the Right who talks down the EEA Agreement, but his own partners in a government that formally just has the EEA Agreement as a central principle for its administration. So it's the government's seas that have disagreements and that create uncertainty. The right-hand option is clear: full Norwegian membership of the value, culture, and community of interests forming Europe. The alternative of the opponents is not as clear. We want to be at the heart of Europe to preface the development of the continent, not just sit on the sideline and hope that the others choose the right way. The year we have left behind will be remembered first and foremost for the people's campaigns in North Africa and the Middle East – from Tunisia and Egypt to Libya, Yemen and Syria. I want to give the Foreign Minister right when he says that we are at the beginning of a change in the region – not at the end. We've just seen the first chapter of what will take a long time. As I stressed one year ago: we have seen dictatorships fall, but we have still not seen democracies and stable regimes rise. In today's situation, the development in Syria is the most dramatic. The regime's reaction to what started as peaceful demonstrations, and the repeated and ongoing attacks on its own people have once and for all shown that al-Assad cannot be part of Syria's future. He's lost all legitimacy. The right supports the clear condemnation of the regime in Damascus and its actions by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Arab League has put forward a proposal for a peace plan. Treatment in the Security Council showed that most of the world society would support it. Two countries went against. Russia and China bear heavy co-responsibility for an increasingly violent development, killing civilians and acts referred to by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights as crimes against humanity in Syria. It is very regrettable that two of the permanent members of the Security Council are on the wrong side of the story. In the presentation, the Foreign Minister mentioned Russia and China’s veto only briefly, but in the UN General Assembly last night Norway’s UN ambassador, Wetland, presented a clear criticism of the veto and a harsh condemnation of the Syrian regime. This has Right-wing support. A new vote is expected at the General Assembly tonight. In the last week, there has been a debate on Norway that should consider recalling its ambassador and remaining diplomats from Syria. My point has been to find out that there is a turning point for the value of a powerful political mark. The recall of an ambassador for consultations is perhaps the most powerful instrument a country can use, and the value of diplomatic work can carry out a small delegation is limited both politically and for practical reasons and safety reasons. The right believes that there may have been a break point now. I have noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs disagreed with that assessment, and I have noticed his reason: ground information gathering and contact with the opposition. It is of the highest value purpose. I therefore hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be able to get both to the Storting and to the public with information that builds up under that justification, and really shows that the value of our presence is still greater than the value of a clear and clear signal to the regime. Yesterday it was stated that Sweden should now appoint its own dedicated ambassador for contact with the Syrian opposition. This is an exciting grip and perhaps a way of responding to the need for information and the desire for contact and communication with the opposition, which Norway can also assess. I have also suggested that Norway should try as hard as possible to influence everyone in the international community who has the opportunity to press the regime in Damascus, and I assume that there is an assessment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs as well. Also closer to home than in the Middle East and North Africa, we find major challenges – challenges that the Minister of Foreign Affairs only dealt with quite superficially on Tuesday. In Russia, close history shows that there is a risk of developing insurrection and violent conflicts as a result of a lack of capacity for law enforcement and peaceful conflict management. Norway must have a clear voice on the systemic problems in Russia. Without independent courts, free media, law-abiding police, an active and free civil society and the development of a real political opposition, a full democratic and fair election will not provide democratic rule. At the presidential election on 4 March there are no real alternatives to Putin. The major protest demonstrations are not only electoral juxtapositions, but also major and fundamental shortcomings in the political system in the country. Yesterday I attended a seminar with Russian researchers and MR champions. They just underlined this. The problem is not so much about him sitting on top, but about the system he's sitting on top of. Sense a perfectly implemented choice without cheating will be illegitimate because the system is illegitimate. On 9 May last year, I went to an inter-pelling debate on the development of civil society and the situation of human rights in Russia. We call for a clearer criticism from the Norwegian Government of these fundamental shortcomings in the political system in Russia. Firstly, the Russian authorities must adopt a plan to ensure political pluralism. There are concrete reform proposals to ensure that the next elections have policy options that are real to decide on for voters. There's a road the authorities have to start going now. Secondly, Russia must start dealing systematically with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. They need to address the underlying problems that lead to torture, disappearances and the absence of criminal investigations. I agree with Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre that elections are the very litmus test of democracy, but Norway must be clear that the problems of democracy are getting deeper than this. Neither in Kiev points the arrows in the right direction. President Janukovych and his government are pursuing political opponents through a corrupt and politically governed judicial system, bringing together all power in society in their own hands and enriching themselves with seas and a select number of members of the oligarchs at the expense of the citizens. The prospect of Parliamentary elections becoming something in the vicinity of freedom and democracy later this year is negligible. If we go north again, we will find Europe's last completely unreformed and total dictatorship. In his presentation to the Riksdag yesterday, Carl Bildt referred to the situation in Belarus as ‘dark in Minsk’ – a emotional picture and a description I fully share, because the ‘dark in Minsk’ is really heavy. The screws have been tightened further towards civil society, the press and the political opposition since the 2010 elections. The economic crisis has made Lukashenko even more paranoid and repressive. On the right, we ask for an explicit and clear increase in Norway's involvement in the country, stronger cooperation with civil society and the opposition – just a renewed and significantly strengthened Norwegian strategy for Belarus. It is paradoxical that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not mention this in one word, not least because Norway and EFTA are now negotiating a free trade agreement with Russia, which will in fact include the Lukashenko regime. Norway risks taking a step closer to Belarus, while in the rest of Europe, among our friends and allies, seeking to isolate and punish both politically and economically. The same paradox also applies to some extent in our relationship with both Russia and Ukraine. We can face a dilemma where our new free trade agreements can be read as a condolences and recognition of political developments and a system of governance we would otherwise seek to counter, and put ourselves in a critical position. In the worst cases, policies can be used to undermine the political pressure of other actors – such as the EU – towards countries. Is this a dilemma that we're conscious of? Right-wing wants and expects Norway's voice to be equally clear, not to say even more clearly, and our commitment to the situation in our neighbourhoods, on our own continent and in our neighbouring countries. Norway and other democratic countries can never allow themselves to be passive spectators of authoritarian governance in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e165	The economic crisis in several European countries is slipping into a worrying social crisis. We know from experience of unemployment easily snaps when it has grown. Most seriously, youth unemployment. In several countries, large parts of the youth generation can be permanently excluded from the labour market. Norway stands out. Our social-democratic model of society has always proved to be against economic noise. Never have so many been in work as today. Few walk free for a long time. We have been able to convert both economic and welfare systems. The sustainability is solid. But we are not protected from the consequences of the crises around us. Dealing with these problems in a good way through 2008-2009 should not lead us to believe that we can cope with them. We must not fool ourselves into the notion that we are doing our best – and that we are doing our best alone. We are deeply integrated, mainly in Europe, but also gradually stronger in new, growing markets; in Asia and Latin America. This integration is an essential part of the explanation of the strong growth we have had, in value creation, in welfare and in employment. But globalisation also makes us vulnerable to the problems out there at home. The European Survey tells us how important the EEA Agreement has been to this positive development – in all areas. The EEA Agreement is an economic anchor for Norway. Therefore, we must warn against the attacks we are now looking at the agreement. The constant requirement to reserve ourselves against different parts of the common legislation reflects a notion that we should be able to choose and reject what rules we will follow, and which we will not follow, of the legislation agreed upon by 27 of our neighbouring countries. The core of the EEA Agreement is that we are in the internal market as fully-fledged partners, a market with common rules that gives Norwegian business the same protection as its competitors. This is what is challenged if the reservation line takes over. It is not challenged because the EU wants to 'blacklist' us, as some people express it. That's not what this is about. But if we reserve ourselves against a directive – which we can – there will be holes in the agreement. The area regulated by the Directive will be brought to an end. Norwegian companies lose the protection and opportunities to compete in a common regulatory framework. This would weaken the significance of the agreement for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian economy. The response to the crisis in Europe provides a basis for optimism. At present, EU countries have jointly implemented institutional changes, strengthened control of financial institutions, established borrowing mechanisms and a new intergovernmental agreement to help those countries that are worst off. It's quite impressive what 27 countries have the power to agree on. Without a cooperation that has lasted from 8 to more than 50 years, this would not be possible. The problems are big, yes, but they would be even bigger without this cooperation. Europe has avoided protectionism. Europe has avoided competition in devaluations, with the chaos this would bring on the currency markets. It is natural and right that we contribute, through the IMF and through the EEA funds. How things are going in our neighboring country is important to us. The EEA Agreement and the other agreements we have with the EU are all key elements of our economic policy and foreign policy. They place Norway where we belong — in European and transatlantic cooperation, where we have been anchored since we realized the weaknesses of neutrality. EU cooperation has become increasingly important to us, including in defence and security policy – and in foreign policy. At a time when the United States is turning west, towards Asia, our European security policy bone is of even greater importance. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure this position through the broad range of instruments drawn up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation. It's important to our economy. It's important to our security. It is important to maintain the security of Norwegian society today and in the future. Strengthening Norwegian business opportunities abroad has become a more central part of foreign policy tasks. Innovation Norway, the Research Council and various business organisations are important partners. Another important tool is the EFTA and the network of free trade agreements we have concluded, together with the three other Member States – 22 agreements with 31 countries. Last week I was in Indonesia, together with colleagues from the other three EFTA countries, to promote the negotiations that have begun with this huge country. The country has 240 million inhabitants, of whom more than half are 30 years of age or younger – a democratic country with more than 6 pst. economic growth over several years, with a huge market in growth and with a promising future. Indonesia, however, does not just want a traditional free trade agreement. They want a comprehensive economic cooperation agreement. They need assistance to build export capacity, opportunities to meet quality requirements on our markets, etc. This poses new challenges for us and for EFTA. We do not, like the European Union, have common institutions and a common budget to support such broader cooperation agreements. It must be the responsibility of each of the countries. We know that two of our partners in EFTA are quite small and have limited resources, so it is Norway and Switzerland that have to take a primary responsibility for this. Now I think this is going to work out in relation to Indonesia, because Norway and Switzerland already have a broad cooperation with this huge country. But to the future partner countries, this could raise new demands for EFTA cooperation, which we must be prepared to meet. Let me just respond to what the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide said about the free trade agreements with Russia, Belarus and Ukraine: Are we aware of the challenges? The answer is yes, you are aware of that in the EFTA context. We started with Russia and were captured by the agreement Russia signed with its neighbouring country. I am addressing this in this context because there is far too little attention to trade policy and to EFTA cooperation in the political debate, including here in the Chamber. A year ago, the foreign policy debate took place when the popular revolution in Egypt had just won new victories. President Mubarak had left, Parliament had been dissolved, and the Constitution had been repealed. The military had assumed responsibility. Now, one year later, the Egyptian people have made their choice. The Muslim brotherhood – which one year ago claimed they were not to stand for election – has become the winner of the election. Islamic parties have a solid majority and must assume responsibility in a democratic Egypt and with democratic legitimacy. They must meet — not least — young people’s expectations of a better everyday life, a better future, based on democracy. It's a choice that can challenge us. But, of course, we must respect the democratic elections. That's what we often hear from the Progress Party in relief, if not to have contact with, not to talk to, such political parties. It's a line that doesn't lead anywhere. It's a line that doesn't provide opportunities to help build and consolidate a dawning democracy. But we should also stress to the new rulers in Egypt and other countries where the people have rebelled against the dictators, what is the acid test of democracy: respect for fundamental human rights, the willingness to meet people's economic and social needs and free elections when the period is over. The upheavals in the Arab countries are beginning. We have to remind ourselves that democracy is not something that can be planted in a society from the outside. The Iraqi people did not meet the Americans with wavy flags, banners and democracy, but with weapons. Democracy must be built from below, it must be built on the country's history and culture, if it is to root and grow robust. It could challenge us. But we must remember that the West in these countries has not just presented itself as democratic models. We represent forces that finally supported the dictators against the people. The stability of the dictatorship was more important to us than democracy and human rights. Unfortunately, this is also the case with interest policy. That makes them look at us with something ambivalent today. The policy of interest is also reflected in the drama we must witness in Syria, and prevents more forceful action by the international community. The uplifting thing is that the Arab League is engaged. It is important that the Arab countries are in the lead to end the regime's abuse of its own people. Our condemnation of the situation in the United Nations yesterday was a powerful political signal. Unfortunately, I do not believe that a recall of Norway's ambassador in Damascus is what makes al-Assad realize that time is up. On the other hand, it will deprive us of the basis for following closely the events. The Middle East is still the most explosive area. The development of Iran's nuclear programme is equally threatening. Lack of transparency creates uncertainty. Uncertainty creates nervousness. We're going to hope the reactions don't come when the nerves are on the verge. The conflict between Israel and the Palestinians is equidistant from its solution. Palestinian reconciliation is necessary and may be around the corner. It should be seen as an opportunity, not a threat. I therefore hope that we will soon be where the recognition of a Palestinian State can be a constructive contribution to a solution and the start of the negotiations necessary to resolve outstanding conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e214	The financial crisis naturally gained a large place in the foreign policy presentation. Norway is making a point of how it helps to mitigate the impact of the crisis in Europe. The common denominator of the Norwegian contributions is that they result, directly or indirectly, from an active petroleum policy. By keeping oil and gas production at a high level, Norway has the power to implement concrete measures to support Europe. The context is obvious: Norway without an offensive petroleum policy will be in a completely different situation. This dimension, which is the link between domestic policy choices and foreign policy opportunities, is not always given equal emphasis when discussing future activity on Norwegian soil. The Minister of Foreign Affairs identified the danger of increasing protectionism. This is a natural follow-up to the opinion of Norway at the WTO ministerial meeting last year. The party is in favour of the international government choosing to strike a blow for free trade. We look forward to this being followed up at home by concrete action in the form of tolerations. We have so far been spared a global trade war, but there are some dangerous political rhetoric that have to be remedied. In a Europe of crisis and indebtedness, in the United States, and in unsafe Chinese leaders, we see political outbursts trying to appeal to narrow national interests. The long-term problems of economic nationalism are frightening. In these times of crisis, it is important to promote growth and trade and to contribute to the relief of the business situation. Economic nationalism will continue to be a tool for political nationalism, which will tear down the legs of the last 20 years' efforts for an integrated Europe. We see, not least in Greece, that the population seems to be turning more towards extreme political directions. Many European countries with political and economic chaos will be a challenge for the whole continent. In the past, we have suggested that EEA funds should be considered to meet the challenges of the financial crisis more directly. We are well aware that this will largely stem from agreements already concluded, but in a difficult situation we need to see whether there are opportunities to stimulate the European economy more actively. Norway should communicate this to the EU. The promotion of Norwegian business interests is highlighted in the presentation and supported by the Progress Party. The resolution of the extra duty on salmon in the United States is good news. We hope we can have a free trade agreement with Russia, a market that is important for Norwegian fish, and where the potential for increased trade is great. An obstacle has been uncertainty and a lack of predictability. A free trade agreement with Russian WTO membership will open many doors to Norwegian industrial interests. The absence of a new WTO agreement means that we must continue to seek new free trade agreements. We have to make sure that these agreements do not necessarily have to resolve everything but to promote more trade. It will often be the case that the countries with which we want to conclude agreements face challenges in terms of both work on rights and poverty. There are important challenges, but it may as well be natural to deal with them outside the framework of a free trade agreement. Europe is our most important market, and the EEA Agreement ensures us access to this market for the vast majority of products. A good delivery gel is that in uncertain times you sit still in the boat and do not try to move abruptly. The eagerness currently shown by parts of the left-hand side of Norway in its attempt to overturn parts of the EEA Agreement is careless dealing with Norwegian interests. Yes, we're going to have the right to reserve ourselves against directives, but we're going to do what is at stake where important fundamental issues are at stake, and of course, we're always going to evaluate the impact on the entire agency. The political game now taking place around the temporary agency directive, which is in addition to the reservation against the postal directive, challenges our acceptance of the four freedoms in the internal market. Then we're talking about an almost ideological battle. The objectives of the Centre Party and SV are known, but the trade movement and parts of the Workers' Party want to be involved in the same way are disappointing. We look forward to removing the uncertainty created as soon as possible. China lacks foreign policy maturity, making it extra demanding to engage in a critical dialogue with the country. Nevertheless, it is important that China meets criticism and not just tacit acceptance. China as an observer in Arctic Council is important, because we have a lot of relationships to discuss with the Chinese. Ship traffic is one example. China is planning to expand its ice-breaking fleet from one to six ships, confirming that the country has ambitions. But also in other areas that affect people in the Arctic, we need cooperation. A concrete example is the release of mercury, which has fallen almost worldwide. The exemption is in particular China, where emissions have increased significantly. We are now experiencing an increase in health-related problems in the Arctic population as a result of Chinese mercury emissions. If we are to be able to take responsibility for China in this area, we must be around the same table. It is quite natural that Norway, as one of eight Arctic states, has a normal dialogue with China in advance of an observership. This should also be actively supported by the other Arctic countries. But it is also right to stress that if China is invited as an observer and chooses to take place, it is China that is taking the first step towards political dialogue with Norway. The increased emphasis on knowledge about Russia is supported. There is a general need for increased knowledge of our big neighbor in the east. We also value the attention of many Russians to Norway, in the form of more students, tourists, etc. For the time being, we are following in this exchange. We need more Nordics with networks in Russia and knowledge of the country. This will promote closer contact in all areas and not least reduce the scepticism and suspicion that sometimes appear to exist in Norway in relation to Russia. But although we are going to strengthen cooperation, we should be clear about pointing out problems and supporting them in the Russian society that are striving to establish a modern rule of law with respect for fundamental rights. The unrest we have seen behind the Russian elections is an expression that many Russians are frustrated and impatient with political developments. We share the Foreign Minister's assessments with Syria. We understand the need for continued diplomatic presence in Damascus. What needs to be assessed is whether it is natural for Norway to continue diplomatic contacts with the Assad regime while many other countries choose isolation and boycott. Does Norway get so much out of its presence that it justifies that we stay in Damascus? In the presentation, it appears that Norway regrets that the EU imposes additional sanctions on Iran. What other peaceful alternatives does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that the world is in control of Iran's nuclear programme? There has been no lack of dialogue. Almost every time Iran has felt seriously pressured, they have tried to divert the pressure by again accepting new rounds of negotiations. Negotiations have produced little results, and the breath breaks have been used by Iran to get a little further in the development of its nuclear programme. If that's what Iran claims, that they only want a peaceful nuclear programme for energy purposes, they have had many opportunities to realize this within an acceptable framework. Unfortunately, Iran has not shown such a willingness to calm the world. A political solution in Afghanistan is the only long-term solution, but who should be included and what the solution should look like is unanswered. They are progressing, even though they are few, which, after all, have been established in recent years, must be ensured. This becomes demanding after our and other countries' direct military presence changes. Nevertheless, such political signals must clearly be given to the Afghans. A secure political solution must have active support and close approval of Pakistan. But with Pakistan's own political problems, its own terrorist challenges and open conflict between different parts of Pakistan's power, it is difficult to see that this can be delivered in a credible way. Nevertheless, the key to political stability in Afghanistan lies in a common understanding between Afghan actors, the region and the international community. This has been pointed out many times, but it is still a reality. Solutions that may appear as provocative in the short term but lack the necessary broad support could escalate the problem. The losing party will always be the usual Afghan, especially women and children, who are always vulnerable in conflict areas but who also face cultural and religious challenges in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e242	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and very thorough presentation that is sweeping over many challenges in the world today. 'Divided We Stand' was the title of a report presented by the OECD not long ago, which confirmed the extent of research and knowledge we gradually have on growing income differences within countries to say so to all Western countries. Last year's World Development Report confirms the same image, including a broader global view. The majority of the world’s countries experience increasing income differences within countries. This is quite dramatic in many of its countries. In the United States, the richest percentage of the U.S. population had about 12 pst. of the revenue of the time Ronald Reagan took over as President. A few years ago, in 2010, that part was up to 25 pst. The richest percent had doubled their share of income, to have a quarter of all income. We've seen the same developments over the last decade in Germany. It's been a very big revenue boost for a little bit on top. In common with both the United States and Germany, the last decade has lost real wages for the median American or German. This is something from the background we need to understand the first major financial crisis some years ago, including. in the United States. While many people didn't get pay growth — on the contrary, they got less for their money — banks continue to borrow. There were low interest rates for many years. The security of getting a loan was reduced. Loans were traded between financial institutions, and finally, with a lot of loans that people couldn't afford. The very large income inequality also has other dramatic consequences. Firstly, it is also well documented over many years in the same research that income inequality is very negative for public health, for poverty, for welfare levels and for educational levels in a country. There is a stronger link between income inequality and that type of indicator for the richest countries than between the degree of economic growth and, for example, the public health and level of education. Secondly, it has dramatic negative consequences for human confidence. What we are now seeing is how trust between people and trust in government is being reduced in many countries. These include: parts of what we can now see in southern Europe. The Norwegian social researcher Dag Wollebæk has shown how most countries in Western Europe and former Eastern Europe have either been stagnating or falling in confidence between people in the last decade, while the Nordic countries, and not least Norway, have been able to maintain an increase in trust between people. Thirdly, there is also a negative impact on the potential for conversion and growth, not least on productivity growth. Many countries in Europe work more hours than we do, but almost no country produces so much per hour of work, i.e. it has such high labour productivity. The key to progress in all economies is that one can have high productivity growth, and then all the other factors here, such as well-being, trust between people, good public health, etc., mean a lot. So we've now seen and shown a double inequality crisis. We are all aware of the dramatic global inequality, despite the fact that many people are being lifted out of poverty – which is still there. But we are also in the midst of an inequality crisis that has evolved over time in the Western world, and therefore, as the red-green government managed in its first period, to reduce the differences between people, extremely important for Europe. Then there is also a worrying development in Europe linked to the economic crisis of democracy. Looking at Norway's voluntary introduction of technocrats as leaders, I would say at least that reflection is not enough and should lead to an increase in debate in Europe. It becomes so clear to us how the immediate responses from the market set the standard for policy decisions and policies in each country, and how individual countries have a significant impact – directly and indirectly – on other countries’ policy decisions today. Bringing democracy closer to people in Europe is an incredibly great challenge for the world that has been leading democracy development for the last hundred years. At the same time, the most exciting thing is about democracy in two of Europe's neighbouring regions. The most important thing that happened internationally last year was probably the Arab Spring and what could be the start of a comprehensive democratization in the Middle East. Egypt, one of the oldest cultures in the world, has existed as a state for 7 000 to 8 000 years, but has never been a democracy. It is a fantastic development – dramatic, but amazing – that we are now seeing steps in that direction. I want to take advantage of the chance to praise the government for what she presented in the United Nations yesterday via UN Ambassador Morten Wetland, which I see as a clear and clear political pardon for Syria. I mean, Norway has handled it in a good way. I agree entirely with the representative Hansen that it will now be the wrong signal as long as security is in order, to extract our diplomats from Syria. I would also like to praise what was said in the Palestinian Declaration, that Norway is now actively working to find a solution. Putting pressure on Israeli authorities to come to the negotiating table is very important. A two-state solution can escape as a realistic possibility if we don't get moving forward there. Then, when it comes to democratisation, I will also mention the issue of Russia, which is very important, where there should be elections. I argued that Norway is as clear and clear, and set the same standards for addressing democracy and human rights issues to Russia as what we are doing to other countries. But what may be especially important when it comes to Russia is that Russia is a country that has some democratic structures, but to those degrees lacks political culture for democracy, organisational life and civil society – an understanding and a real belief that having real elections is important, a social belief that freedom of expression, the role of self-independent pressure is important, and an understanding of how we can support civil society and organisations. Political culture rarely emerges from the system, it grows from the outside. So it's an important Norwegian role vis-à-vis Russia. So two short perspectives finally. Power moves eastward towards Asia. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved in his statement. I would like to see a wide-ranging debate on how we, as a country and as a society, will meet the gradual shift of interests, power and resources – and probably both economics and security policy – to the east, a social mobilization similar to that we have had in generations before when it comes to the United States and Europe, and how we not only meet it in thinking about trade and economics, but think about cultural understanding, knowledge and understanding, that it is not just China, it is Indonesia, it is the rest of East Asia, it is South Asia – a range of regions – that will be important and that will gradually become more important, such as, for example, the American author Robert Kaplan re-writes in the book ‘Monsoon’, which the Secretary of State was also involved in the distribution. Finally, the EEA. Is it dangerous with the EEA debate? Do we experience a reservation hunger? Well, the number of completed reservations from Norway in the EEA Agreement is still zero, so in that case, the reservation hunger must start at one, if we are in the vicinity of it now. I believe it is a great step forward that we, with the Data Storage Directive and the Postal Directive, have come to Norway that we can conduct a regular and real political discussion on matters. Both of these matters, e.g. The data storage directive debate here in the Chamber was the embodiment of people arguing for what they meant. Those who voted in favour were in favour of the Data Storage Directive and argued for it. I was against the Data Storage Directive and argued against it. It's a normalization. The Temporary Agency Directive is too important to allow her to be debated. The directive has positive aspects, but it will also challenge temporary employment in Norway, because today, in the environmental work law, we regulate staffing in the same way as we do with temporary work, according to another paragraph. If it goes as the lawyers in the NHO, Works and Specter say it has to be removed, the agency may become a back door to more temporary additions to Norwegian working life. It is important for democracy that we discuss it, and it is important for Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e274	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a statement that makes some of the complexity and challenges we face in foreign policy. Transparency about the values that will lead our foreign policy will make it clear which interests we should follow in foreign policy. The values at the bottom of the government's foreign policy are anchored here in Stortinget, and they are shaped and further developed through the living political debates we have, not least after the presentations. During this great period, the international political scene has been marked by the financial crisis, a food crisis and a creeping climate crisis. Looking at history, food crises and financial crises have been the driving force in many of the historical events we know. One of the explanations that the French revolution came when it came was instability in the food prices of the 1780s. Later in European history, we all know what political forces gained in the sails during the deep economic crisis in the middle of the war. Fundamental crises that have been, and those that we are witnessing now, have historically led to a change in power relations. This is also happening now – and it affects us strongly both in foreign policy and domestic policy. Some of the changes are happening abruptly and brutally, as we have seen in the Arab spring, while other changes are happening gradually, as they are now in Europe. A basic value of Norwegian foreign policy is the promotion of popular government. Democracy in Europe is no longer on the rise, but instead is challenged in several ways. Especially in southern Europe, people flock to the streets to be heard. The protests we've witnessed this weekend have ended in regular street battles. While protests are loud in the streets, political leadership is forced to sign agreements that they will not change the policy after the elections that come to us. What's happening is scary. The disparity that exists in the eurozone is due to the deep economic downturn in many European countries. The EU created a single currency without having an equal economy or a common economic policy. This means that, when the crisis occurs, there will be no good political instruments. Some countries have given up the right to pursue monetary policy, and the euro community, with its different needs, cannot pursue a sensible monetary policy for all. Before the crisis occurred, the euro turned the European economy into a favour of the motor Germany and disfavor of the weaker peripheral countries in the south. At the time of the financial crisis, European countries did everything in their power to save banks and financial institutions and their sovereign funds. Today we have a debt crisis, and the only item that the EU can regulate and cut is the salaries, pensions and rights of ordinary people to well-being. Cut-off policy is unfair, distorts and is pervasive across the people's will. In addition, it sends the economy into a downward spiral that makes it worse. To implement Keynes’ principle that, in times of crisis, an expansive monetary policy, in times of upswing, is out of reach for many countries. At the beginning of this big period, it was Iceland that we talked about most – not Greece. Iceland is on its way out of crisis because of several factors, but I want to point out two: firstly, they did not save the financial institutions that brought the country into crisis, and secondly, Iceland has its own currency. Instead of looking for alternatives, the EU has turned its focus in the opposite direction, trying to tighten the grip, getting into a more dense integration in the Union and concentrating power around Brussels. Thus, we have a situation where people call on less of the EU model, and politicians respond more. The people are calling for more democracy, justice and influence, and the politicians are responding less. There is a deep and dangerous gap between the European elites and the people. Today, the European Union has 27 member countries with about 500 million inhabitants and 80 different languages. In times of crisis, it becomes particularly clear that this construction works can never replace the glue of the national State. The people of the EU place national governments in charge of managing the impact of the financial crisis. National politicians are held responsible for the consequences that affect individuals, families and communities. For all policies become real on the local level. However, national politicians in the euro area countries have given way to governance. And a single currency without a common fiscal policy is incredibly demanding to deal with, especially in such a comprehensive area as the euro zone. The EU is stretching from Germany's strong industrial economy to Greece, which is on the brink of bankruptcy. The EU has not had a common fiscal policy, has no common public sector. The EU does not have powerful economic instruments to integrate into regions that are struggling and that are linked to a currency that takes account of countries that have a completely different growth. We on the no side have always pointed out that having a single currency without having a common fiscal policy is a solid experiment, and now we see the results. The solution now is for the EU to gradually take on more and more power over each euro area economy, without referendums or strong popular anchoring. EU countries feel that they have no choice. Power needs to be centralised — although the problem was that power was centralized by introducing the euro. What happens forces the EU to adopt a common fiscal policy – a United States of Europe. The cradle of the National Government must not be its grave, was a headline in the Danish newspaper Politiken. History has shown us that crises can negate under the worst forces in society. For Norway, it is essential that the solutions now adopted in the euro zone create jobs for the many unemployed as quickly as possible and that they in the long term strengthen the rule of the people of Europe, not weaken it. For a real government of the people, the best condition is stability over time. Crisiss can also lead to a positive change. While there is strong pressure on democracy in Europe, we see a different development in the Middle East. And the change has come from within, by the people having stood up and demanded their right to be heard. Food shortages and rapidly rising food prices coupled with high unemployment were one of the underlying factors behind the explosions in Tunisia and Egypt. The desire for popular government has been one of the main elements of the Arab Spring. What the long-term consequences will be is too early to say. But it is important that in our foreign policy we build up under the forces that want democratic development. The Arab Spring has once again shown us that the desire to live in freedom and to have influence is universal, and what we see now shows what price someone has to pay to get something we take completely for granted in Norway. Norway’s military contribution to Libya had full support in the Stortinget. This shows a line in our foreign policy: that we, as a small country, are politically united about the major choices we make. It's a force and some of the finest people's rule can show. We are united about some main interests, such as that we all want a strong UN and clear international rules and human rights as a guide. All policies end up in a community. I noticed that well in my community, Ilseng. One of the local corner stone companies, which I've known since I was a nephew, has its main export to Libya. Cancellations and lay-offs were the result of what happened in Libya last year in my community. This shows that what happens in foreign policy can have consequences for the smallest community. Here in the Chamber we have a different view of the importance of the nation state. But we all agree that the development of nation states and national governments has been crucial to the peace and stability of our part of the world. I believe that Norwegian foreign policy in the future must focus on expanding the prevalence of the People's Council in parts of the world that are not yet experiencing it, while at the same time working to preserve the people's rule that is at stake in parts of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e312	The broad lines of the Foreign Minister’s presentation will be widely supported in this Chamber. It's a strength when, as a nation, we can stand united behind our international commitment. That is what we do when the government is firmly attached to the broad lines that have been followed by changing governments – in European policy, in human rights policy and in the work on international peace and security. I can also confirm that the Christian People's Party shares the frustration that the relationship with China has not been normalized. The political ice front should be tinted for the longest time. It's approaching the irony if we have to go to the Arctic together to experience that the ice front is melting. But in political relations with China, we would all like to welcome climate change, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs put it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs began his statement on Tuesday with an updated review of the economic crisis in Europe and the United States — not least the crisis in the euro area. That theme is becoming a recurring topic. I'm not going to dedicate it too much space today. The crises in the EU will be with us for a long time in the future, and they affect us in several ways, even though Norway is in a very lucky position outside the EU monetary union. I share the Foreign Minister's three main points: Yes, we must take care of our relationship with Europe. The EEA Agreement is a pillar of this cooperation. But we must also remember that Europe is more than Europe. Yes, we will help Europe get out of today's state of crisis. But it has to be done wisely, and, of course, the financial crisis has repercussions on foreign policy. It follows logically from the theory that ‘everything is related to everything’. When EU countries are struggling with internal problems, solidarity beyond the borders of the EU tends to be less powerful. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that this could lead to a change in the focus on global issues such as trade, climate, disarmament and sustainable access to energy for all. However, I particularly missed one area among the high priority issues that the Minister for Foreign Affairs thought could be addressed in this way. It is the international fight against poverty – and for development. It should have been mentioned, because it is easy to forget the world's poor when politicians and people in many of the world's rich countries get enough to solve domestic problems. The financial crises in the EU and the United States can easily lead to a greater focus on foreign policy. As a result, it is less concerned about helping to solve problems that are not clearly linked to self-interest. There is a risk of a worse foreign policy if the interests of the global common interests and the world's poorest have to give way to national interest thinking. At a time when it is almost fashionable to talk about interest-based foreign policy, it may be appropriate to recall that foreign policy is due only if it is interest-based and not also value-based, and foreign policy is definitely poor if it forgets the poor. That is why yesterday’s launch of the government’s global health report was a very important political mark in this way, where health is very clearly defined as a global common good that requires thinking that all people have the right to basic health services to meet their basic health needs. I look forward, as the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council for that communication, to having good debates here in the Grand Duchy during the spring on a very important issue which most concerns the poor. Popular uprisings have overturned several ancient authoritarian Arab regimes. The Arab Spring gives hope for better times, but the further development is uncertain. Norway must support the development of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in the Arab region. But lasting victories can only be won through people's own efforts. Syria is in a time of destiny, and it pains to see the regime in Syria gambled at the fact that Russia and China are preventing effective action from the international community. Therefore, the regime dares to insert the army’s tanks against its own population. The bloodbath will be a disgrace in the country's history. It had its price when the international community with air forces stopped the armies of the Gaddafi regime military forces in Libya, but it gave the people the chance to throw off the tyrant's ride. Today we have to admit that it has its price not to intervene in Syria. The world community must bear responsibility for its choices of action in both cases. In the work on human rights, the presentation brings forward four areas. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now confirming that the EEAS will be more and more systematically committed to the protection of minorities. It is a milestone that work on the protection of life-synthesis minorities is now being promoted as one of the priority tasks. The Christian People's Party has been calling for this for many years. We have criticised the government for the lack of action. Now we exchange the criticism with praise, when a more active and systematic policy is actually announced, with competence building and active follow-up in several international forums. We see the presentation's mention of the Copts' situation in Egypt and the situation of other Christians in the Middle East and in countries like Pakistan as an important breakthrough. This has been under-priority in Norwegian human rights policy. The Christian People's Party will give full support to a stronger effort to ensure freedom of belief around the world, not least in the Middle East. There we find several of the world's worst regimes regarding violations of human rights in general, and freedom of belief in particular. It is easy to deny the short snapshot of the developments in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. As he said: ‘The picture of a locked situation is further anchored.’ I must note, however, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs' analysis of the heart of the conflict is surprisingly one-sided. Let me quote: «The fundamental core of the conflict consists, the occupation continues and deepens through the settlements and expulsion of Palestinians from their own country.» And there it stops. Yes, I agree that this is one side of the problem – briefly told. The other side of the problem, which the Foreign Minister totally failed to mention, is that powerful Palestinian forces do not at all accept the existence of the State of Israel. There can't be peace with that. There is an obvious weakness in the statement that it is so one-sided in the description of the core of the conflict, for the realities are remembered daily. Hamas leader Ismail Hanieh, who is also Prime Minister in Gaza, was in Iran's capital Tehran last Saturday. There he confirmed what they mean: Hamas will never recognize Israel's right to exist! He shares that view with other militant Islamist organizations who will also remove Israel from the map. They insist that since the area was conquered by the Arabs around the year 637 after Christ, every empty land in this area has once and for all become Islamic territory. Point! In January, the Palestinian government party Fatah celebrated its 47th anniversary. It is in many ways a moderate alternative to Hamas, but also at the Fatah anniversary they cultivated hatred. And the foremost Muslim authority in Palestinian territory, the muftie of Jerusalem, gave at the invitation of the meeting leader a religious legitimacy of killing Jews. That is truly motivating! Therefore, a true picture of the conflict background has several pages: The Israelis have experienced a series of warriors to remove Israel from the map, terrorist waves that struck civilians, boycotts from Arab countries and antisemitism that have driven many on the run from Arab countries. The Palestinians have experienced the need to give land to the Israelis, many have been forced to flee, and those who have remained have been subjected to strict military control and financial sanctions because of the acts of terrorists. It is not easy to promote mutual trust and belief in a just solution when ordinary Israelis and Palestinians experience this from the other side of the conflict. We who see the whole thing a little bit more at a distance, should be able to see both sides of the problem. To understand why the conflict has been so long and has almost gone into confusion, it is necessary. Norway needs to be seen as a constructive contributor to a peaceful and fair solution. At this point, I must admit, the limp statement forcefully this time. The Christian People's Party is inviting the Foreign Minister here today to take the opportunity to correct this imbalance during the debate. In addition, other speakers from the Christian People's Party will come back to the consequences of Norway's action in the UN system on the status of Palestinian self-government authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e391	The backdrop for last year's debate here in the Grand Duchy was the Arab Spring, which is historic both for Egypt and for the other countries of the Arab world. Here we see that the people's will is coming through, and that democratic steps are being taken. They must also have time to do the job we spent in Norway for a hundred years, from the time we got a democratic constitution, until Norway satisfied all the demands for what to have to call the country a democracy. As usual, the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a good, professional account of the challenges we face with regard to foreign policy issues. However, after last year's presentation, we in the Left Minister for Foreign Affairs criticised for being too passive in terms of developments in Egypt. I think I will repeat the essence of this criticism this year. In general, I see the Minister of Foreign Affairs as a good diplomat and a good analyst, but less strongly in conveying values. We in the Left want a more clear, value-based foreign policy from the Norwegian side, a policy that is active in fighting for fundamental human rights everywhere, that wants to normalize between countries, and that does not always wait and see. Norway can go ahead with the position we have. It is great when we can confirm the view of human rights, the efforts of minorities – religious as sexual – and freedom of expression, but at the same time we have to be specific and dry to point out the foreign policy difference between countries. The situation we are now seeing in Syria is relevant in this respect. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister condemns the Syrian regime, and I am also pleased that he expresses great regret for the veto of Russia and China in the UN Security Council. It was supposed to be missing! But I believe that Norway should also take advantage of its position to put further pressure on Russia. It is Russia that has the key to the situation in Syria, and I believe that the Foreign Minister must be able to use his energy to influence a country to which we have good relations, on this issue. It is positive to create a group of friends for Syria, but the key is still to influence Russia. I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take it with him. The same is true of China, the sail of our influence is not the greatest in terms of the regime. However, I would warn the Minister for Foreign Affairs not to complain to China after the Nobel Peace Prize award. It is important to maintain normal trade relations, but at the same time to maintain the criticism of the undemocratic aspects of the Chinese regime, and our support for the freedom of expression champions. I record Norway holding on to the support on observer status for China in Arctic Council and having a dialogue with China about it. I would like to express the wish that that dialogue is actually being actively used to press for human rights and democracy as well. Well, as important as what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, he said nothing about it. Last year, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his statement that ‘whispers fighting for democracy and human rights must experience that they have our support’. This year, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belarus did not mention, despite the fact that there are still serious violations of human rights in that country, as we experience as Europe's last dictatorship. ‘The human rights situation in Belarus has been greatly exacerbated in the last year, and we are now ready to extend the sanctions’, said a recent EU diplomat to the Evening Post. At the same time as this is happening on the part of the EU, Norway and the EFTA States, together with Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, are continuing to negotiate a free trade agreement. The EU has put the negotiations on free trade with Belarus on ice because of the human rights situation. We in the Left believe that Norway should have done so, as an EFTA member. It is totally unacceptable to negotiate with Belarus as it is now in that country. It's not just a matter of expressing concern and concern. Here, the Foreign Minister must simply put his foot down. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said a few things about nutrition. In this respect, I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has announced an increased commitment to promoting Norwegian business abroad. That, of course, is quite right and important. But at the same time, the example of Belarus shows us that it is at least as important to have human rights as our leading star in business as well. Among other things, I think it is important to have a solid MR competence at each and every embassy. Trade is important, also in the fight for human rights, but it is also important to stand up for the values we stand for when we are going to trade. I want to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be clear on this and see if we can also contribute to the Norwegian business community's competence in human rights and anti-corruption as important fundamental factors in trading. Finally, I want to mention Russia, because we in the Left are seriously concerned about domestic policy developments in Russia right now. We in the Left, through contact with our sister party Yabloko, have had many drops of violations of democratic rules in Russia. It's a political awakening that's about to happen, led by liberal forces, and that requires me to get a lot of support from the Norwegian side. It is absolutely essential that Norway contributes to our neighbouring country having a presidential election campaign that follows the democratic rules. I want a foreign minister who can be far more clear about how important it is for our neighbour to follow the democratic rules of the game than we have seen before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e419	First of all, I notice that there is a connection to the main lines of the statement. As the representative Højbrätten said, it's tradition. I also notice that today, and I am pleased about that. Then there is a good debate on some issues that deserve debate and where there is no fascist response. Let me comment on some of the questions that have come up. The Chairman of the Committee asks the government – I think I understood this point now – to continually assess the presence in Syria. It's kind of a call for us to be prepared to assess that presence. I can just very easily say that we have that. I think the most important factor there is the security of those who are there. It is always a responsibility on the part of the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that there should be security for our posted personnel. The leader asks questions about the value of diplomatic work, whether it is not limited, and that the value of presence does not stand against the value of withdrawing the embassy. I just want to say that I am generally skeptical about using the presence of an embassy as the main expression of what we think about that regime, or what is happening in that country. In general, we experience that it is in difficult times that we need diplomatic presence. I can only confirm for this House that the reports I receive from the Embassy in Damascus are of great importance when we form a picture of what is happening on the political front, on the humanitarian front and on the diplomatic front. In fact, it's still that being present in Damascus, with the networks that are there, matters in that way. Then Russia is mentioned here, just as I did in my statement – I was quite clear on that. There are several of these issues that were called for in the presentation, about which we have had thorough debates in the Storting, both through interpellations and in other ways. The presentation was really long enough as it was, if I may say so. There can be no directory at all. I believe it is timely with a critical look at developments in Russia. We have, and it has been the subject of debate in Stortinget. Especially now, when we have such a close relationship with Russia in so many areas, based on what is happening in the north, it is an important relationship. So when something representative Eriksen Soreide mentioned, and I think it's right to perceive it so that it was from a seminar she had been on, where someone should have expressed whether the Russian system, that if they held elections really didn't play that big, because the election would be illegitimate because the system is illegitimate. And she let it hang a little in the air if it was also her opinion, but it was with reference to a seminar. I want to distance myself from that kind of statement. I think it's a loaded way to describe criticism of what's happening in Russia, to say that the political system there is illegitimate. We meet Russia in a wide range of contexts, in the OECC, in the Council of Europe and in the UN, where we hold each other responsible for the values and principles of membership. If you're going to start drawing the legitimacy of political regimes into doubt, depending on whether they follow all these rules, we're going to get a very broken list in international cooperation. In my view, it is important to take as a starting point what was said in the debate, that one thing is political structure, another main challenge lies in the area of political culture. In this context, I believe that through close cooperation with Russia, a close presence, Norway has many ways of interacting with the civil society in Russia, supporting that development, pointing out what is missing, and stressing the rights that the Russian people actually have. As far as Belarus is concerned, we have had a wide-ranging debate on this in the Chamber. Norway's position here is clear. We have joined and cooperated with the measures taken by the EU countries. And now, as the leader of Nordic cooperation in the Nordic Council of Ministers, we are working closely with a main channel of support for the opposition in Belarus, namely the University of Vilnius, the Free European University, which is in a difficult financial situation, and where the Nordic countries, on the Norwegian initiative, have a discussion on how we can assist the important university. With regard to the free trade agreement issue, it has been stressed in the past that we have not applied for a free trade agreement with Belarus. We have started negotiations with Russia. This is important for Norway. The chairman of the Committee was also concerned about whether it was worth breaking because a free trade agreement could legitimise the political regime. I think that's an honest position to take, and it's an interesting debate, but I think having a free trade agreement that makes trade possible and predictable cannot be taken in that context. If we were to withdraw all the free trade work with countries where we have a different view of the regime, it would also be a very broken list. Belarus is not a country with which we need a free trade agreement. But it is Russia's grip, when they have chosen to conclude this agreement with Kazakhstan and Belarus, which have put us in this situation, and which Norway is not only in alone, but also with Switzerland and our other EFTA partners. It would be my opinion that we are well served to conduct the negotiations and also use it as a channel to express the criticism we needed. We have done so, in relation to all three countries with which we are negotiating. I think we might get more channels in that context. The leader of the left was concerned that we should have solid MR competence at each embassy. I can reassure her that we have. It is a priority part of external service training and, in all respects, guidance on how the embassy should act, both bilaterally and multilaterally. I also remember the big message about corporate social responsibility, which we presented a few years ago, which I believe was – and still lies – very much in front of the international debate on corporate social responsibility and in the ongoing debate we have with the social organisations in Norway to inculcate the responsibility of companies to respect international human rights and conventions. The representative, Høglund, was concerned about Iran, and that is a good reason. He well formulated it as if the Minister for Foreign Affairs almost regretted the EU sanctions, even though Norway joined them. That's not right. But I'm not enthusiastic about a development that is moving towards almost all contact and dialogue being broken down, because then it's almost predictability that this is moments of conflict and dangerous military confrontation. Norway has joined international sanctions because, in the current circumstances, it is believed that this is the political signal that international society can give. But I still think it is important to look for opportunities for this regime to engage in a political process – out of the confrontation that comes. What Norway can do from or to that point of view is actually secondary. But I therefore support Catherine Ashton and the decision of the EU countries to continue to stress that the negotiating table is open. The representative of the Højbrätten thought there was a lack of balance in my briefing on the Middle East. I disagree. We'd like to elaborate on that. We have had debates on this in the past. I just want to read a short sentence from my statement, where I say: ‘We expect any Palestinian government to respect agreements already concluded, including the Oslo Agreement, which obliged the parties to find a peaceful solution to the conflict and to recognise Israel.’ It's a loaded sentence, because the Oslo Agreement already includes mutual recognition. There is an obligation to negotiate outstanding final status issues. There is also the obligation to use policies, not violence. I still believe that the core of the conflict is the occupation. However, a solution to the core of this requires significant involvement of both parties. So I am in favour of the statement given in this area. When it comes to the statement of the turbulence, I have said in a different context – and I can repeat it here – that Norway was clearly distanced from them. We did that directly – based on the statements. He himself believes that he has been interpreted out of the context in which he gave his opinion. We're going to have to take note of that. But we have expressed our views to President Abbas, the President of the Palestinians. He's taken it further, also directly to the mufteria, and we've asked that there be a creation of those statements. There are many strong statements from different sides in this conflict, and I fully agree with the representative, Højbruten, that this makes the conflict – the suspicion – deeper, and makes it more difficult to find solutions. Finally, I would just like to stress – as was done by several speakers – the importance of the EEA Agreement for Norway during the time we are now in. The crisis that has hit Europe is based on state financial conditions, over-indebtedness and over-indebtedness. In such a context, it is really alarming that Europe continues to keep a market quite functional. There has been no take-up of protectionism in the Union market. It has been established by the WTO when they observe it. This is because legislation is very much in common and there are monitoring mechanisms to follow it. The European Commission’s ‘Outside & Inside’, the recent NOU, shows that few countries have had a greater advantage of this predictability, long-termity and legislative equivalence provided by the EEA Agreement. Therefore, I believe that Norway has served with this agreement. 265 of 287 decisions in this Chamber concerning the rules of the EEA Agreement have been unanimous. I believe that in the time we have now, it is all the more important to stress that we are calling about the agreement and the obvious benefits it brings to Norway, even though this agreement – like all other agreements – has sides we might want differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e460	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e464	The representative of the Højbrätten came with clear criticism when it came to a possible imbalance in the Middle East question. That's what the Foreign Minister has responded to. But it could be interesting to hear how the Foreign Minister feels that Israel is looking at Norwegian balance on this issue. Does both parties — especially Israel — experience that Norway has the objectivity and balance necessary to appear to be a neutral party to the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e471	Let me first say that Norway is not neutral. We adopt clear positions, we support UN decisions, we support international principles that cannot be called neutral. For me, the definition of neutrality is the International Red Cross Committee, not Norway. But we want to have access and contact and respect in both camps. I can see that we have that. I don't think I'm going to go to one or the other party and hear if they think we're balanced. The important thing for us is to have access and respect for what we stand for. I experience that when I have up to several times a year in Israel, where I meet the entire leadership and opposition and have the opportunity to exchange views, and where there is always quite clear speech – both ways. What is important for Norway now is to stick to the mission we have to lead the donor country group, which is to have its next meeting in Brussels at the end of March, and to ensure that a standstill in the political process and a more tense situation does not lead to the cessation of efforts to secure the Palestinian institutions – which is good for Israel and good for the Palestinians. Interestingly, we note that many of the contacts we have on the Israeli side, especially on the defence side, are concerned that this work goes on and does not stop, because they see more clearly than some that this is also important for Israeli security. So I see that the important thing for Norway is to have a wide network and to have a realistic expectation of what we can contribute. So it's not to be neutral, it's to be clear in what we stand for, find the ways we can to promote those points of view and get the most out of them. We'll never get that alone. That is what we get when we can work with other groups of countries, such as the Nordics, the European – and other groups of countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e478	Syria is a member of a number of international organisations and UN sub-organisations. There's a case raised in a UNESCO subcommittee on Syria's membership there. I'm not going to go into the details here. But the principle is: Will Norway support any initiatives that come up to isolate and exclude Syria from the good international company, in response to President al-Assads and the Syrian regime's abuse of its own people?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e483	I'm not familiar with this that was mentioned when it comes to UNESCO. I believe that the advantage of Syria being a member of these bodies is that they meet the broad side of criticism when they put up there. I guess I'd be pretty reluctant to think that a line here is going to be the exclusion of special organizations that might be concerned with health or education, or other issues due to political, dramatic conditions at home. What happens in regional organisations that have had the habit of excluding members who do not conform to standards set by regional organisations is a different matter. But on a general basis, I believe that the advantage we have of meeting Syria in the UN, meeting Syria in the Human Rights Council, keeping their representatives accountable, sending clear messages, is a major road we should follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e490	I interpreted, as I said, the Foreign Minister's statement on Tuesday and to the extent that the end of his speech here today is perhaps beginning to become a little bit concerned about the EEA-creature that is beginning to break far into the Workers' Party's own ranks and far into the trade movement. As I suggested in my post, we see a clear tendency that strong forces in the government are now running a kind of ‘brinkmanship’ against the EEA Agreement, where there are constant threats of the use of the right of reservation, where the use of these in government is constantly threatened, etc. The question is whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs considers that the signals now coming from the government – a government which has as its formal governing basis to govern on the basis of the EEA Agreement – are appropriate to underpin the confidence of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e499	I'm very much in favour of that agreement. I am in favour of this directive, and I oppose the use of the right of reservation against it. But I agree with other representatives here who say that there has been no flood of reservations. There has actually been one marker, on the Postal Directive, which is still quite silent in the process. It is true that the debate on reservation does not weaken the EEA Agreement, because it is part of the possibility of the agreement. So I can't see that it's essentially something that weakens the validity and significance of the agreement. What I'm very skeptical about, and disagree with, is when you want to cancel the EEA Agreement, or when you act in a way that is such that the real purpose is to weaken it. It's been said very clearly. I have been at No to the EU national meeting a few years ago, which said that let us go by directives with a view to weakening the agreement. It's a legitimate goal. I disagree very much with that, because I believe the agreement is important for Norway, and that is something we have to ring around. But debates and disagreements and those who argue for reservation, I actually respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e506	In the statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘Norway regrets the situation that now characterises political relations. We are well aware of the position of the Chinese authorities, we take note of their views on both the peace prize and the prize winner and have taken note of this. We want to move on from here – along with the Chinese authorities. We do not want to see such freezing occur in the future." The Minister for Foreign Affairs goes on to say: ‘We extend an open hand and emphasise that both countries have a common responsibility to move forward in mutual respect and to benefit both countries. This approach is firm, and we are ready to take responsibility.’ Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that Norway has a responsibility for what happened to China and the worsening diplomatic relations we have with China, or does the Minister of Foreign Affairs say that Norway only has a responsibility to participate in improving relations with China?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e521	I would like to thank you for the new presentation of this good section of the statement. It didn't get any worse from being read again! We have been clear about the role of the Norwegian Government and the role of the Nobel Committee in explaining the context in which awards are being awarded. I believe it has been a Norwegian responsibility to explain it. It's e.g. not so that the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs shares all opinions about that price in the Norwegian debate. It is not the case that the various representatives of the Nobel Committee, who express their opinion on the prize, speak on behalf of the Norwegian Government, the Norwegian authorities. There may be submissions and emphasis in what we have a different view of, and which is another part of Norwegian foreign policy, given what is happening in China. But it has been important for us to say that when such a conflict occurs, it is wise to give both parties responsibility for moving forward. We do so in a way that I believe preserves the integrity of this committee in Norwegian society, while also maintaining the integrity of the Norwegian government. We stand for what we have of opinions, and then other positions that have emerged in that debate – attitudes that I do not necessarily share – are on their account.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e528	To the debate on one-sidedness or not: in the case of the Middle East, I just have to say that I have not attacked the Foreign Minister for unilaterality in his instruction on solutions to the Middle East conflict in the presentation this time, but his analysis of the core of the conflict. If I could find a new reading or a new lecture on the foreign minister's statement in his description of the core of the conflict, I would be happy. But I haven't found it. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs goes to Belarus. In the evening post on 5 February this year it was said that human rights have not been a topic in the negotiations with Belarus and the others with which we are negotiating free trade. It surprised me, because it has always been a matter of concern to the Stortinget in connection with these free trade agreements that was taken care of. Can the Foreign Minister say that that is the case, and reassure the Stortinget that this will be a topic if it has not already been?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e535	First of all, I never need to lecture the representative, because we're talking about things, and we're pretty much coming up with the areas where we agree, and where we had to disagree, also about the Middle East. The EFTA Free Trade Agreements shall emphasise that trade is more important than trade, that they are also linked to societal, development and labour objectives and human rights. So that means in these negotiations, too, those issues are going to come up. I can confirm that. It is important to trade in a context where trade is important beyond trade itself. It will contribute to something, and it will set certain social objectives. There is no doubt that there will often be among the most sensitive issues in negotiations with countries that have a different view of human rights than what we have. But the more important it is that we also come to those chapters. There I can only stress that we also need to take some debates on our own, in-house in EFTA, where there may be different views on how much to pay attention to those questions, and with the parties we are negotiating with. But it belongs here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e542	It would have been very tempting to follow up Belarus, but I'm in a liberal campaign in all European parliaments this very week, so I'm going to ask for something completely different. The left has a liberal sister party in Armenia, a country described as a overthrown democracy – that is, no democracy at all. Our sister party, AMN, reports through our European umbrella organisation, the ELDR, on widespread violations of human rights. Following the 2008 elections, the peaceful protests organised by the opposition were brutally defeated. In May, there are elections in Armenia again. What all of us Liberals are asking about, in the same week, in all the European Parliaments, is how the foreign ministers see that countries can contribute to the free and fair implementation of the forthcoming elections in Armenia, in line with democratic principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e557	It is an advantage that these are countries that are members of organisations in our region, which have important principles to which they have joined. It's a very important channel when we deal with these questions. I did that when I was in Armenia in October. I had the opportunity to talk to the President-in-Office and also to the opposition, and it was important to say to both parties that the countries around will assist Armenia in its path of development and further democracy, hold the country responsible for how it respects these fundamental rights. We have addressed this through a separate bilateral foreign minister's visit to Armenia. We took it up when the Armenian Foreign Minister was in Norway, and we use the multilateral channels we have to get to it. Then Armenia is in a tense region. They have difficult relationships with many of their neighbours, and that is something that is often used as a reason why policy does not evolve as it should. We are trying to strengthen that they should nevertheless develop the reforms, because it will strengthen the country and its own integrity, even if the region is difficult. So I can confirm that we're dealing with these questions where we have occasion to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e564	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e567	I want to draw some defence and security policy perspectives on the deep crisis in Europe, which a number of speakers have been involved in this debate. As many have pointed out, the economic trends we are now seeing are the starting point for widespread social unrest. This is just about people and not just numbers. People get desperate, and people look for other solutions. We see a serious crisis in the political legitimacy of several European countries, and we see the development of a deep crisis of confidence. There is an open question about the many sensible measures that are being sought to resolve the crisis, before this crisis of confidence has become so deep that it undermines many of the institutions that in their time are needed to resolve the crisis. This has become a theme that now also includes defence ministers. At the recent Minister of Defence meeting in NATO, there was a completely different seriousness and a completely different focus on Europe's own crisis than one is used to in those circles. Until recently, the norm was to talk about how we could possibly contribute to helping elsewhere, assuming that in this part of the world, security has been achieved once and for all. Now, the question that is being asked is whether that is actually true. This is a crisis that affects many of our closest allies. It hits them in a pretty deep way. It has direct implications for defence policy. A great many of our countries, with the exception of Turkey, Norway and one or two others, are now cutting heavily in their defence budgets. There is a significant risk of not just cutting but cutting uncoordinated, so that the overall reduction in defence capabilities is even greater than the numerical cuts suggested. It is very easy to maintain bases, but it eliminates operational capability – that is, the opposite of what we have been trying to achieve for many years, and also succeeded here in the country. This, in turn, will lead to a reduced capacity for collective defence. But it will also lead to a challenge to what over many generations and decades have helped to bind the alliance together. I believe that when history is once written about what NATO contributed to, the greatest emphasis will still be on avoiding the Third World War – and helping to overcome the Cold War, then reaching out a hand to former opponents, who could then become allies. But the second most important contribution the alliance has made is the ability to think together about defence and thus defend us all against the renationalisation of defence and security policy, at least among the countries that are in or partners of the alliance. I still think the alliance will do that, but it's again important to ask questions about to what extent we have the ability to do it. We've seen a real reduction in the alliance's ability to deliver on the alliance's core area, Article 5 defense, not least the conventional Article 5 defense. Norway, together with a number of other Member States, has for several years been concerned with lifting that capacity, raising the focus on the core tasks of the alliance, not only in a geographical sense – that is, with regard to the neighbouring areas, whether it be the Baltic Sea, the Mediterranean or the North, but also the initial focus of the alliance, that is, the capacity for collective defence which, by being there, deters others from challenging our security. There are actually some dark clouds over this, although there is an increasing understanding that this must be a main focus. All of this, of course, inspires me to help keep a proper order in our own house, that we have order in our own budgets, but most of all that we use them so that we get more and more defense out of every penny. We are working very intensively on that now. We're working on a new long-term defence plan, which I'm coming back to Stortinget with in a short time. But this also has a different dimension, and it's the whole problem around what the new term "Smart Defence" is all about doing more together, finding common solutions both to new challenges, as we just did by investing in a common drone system, "Allied Ground Surveillance" and by meeting old challenges in a new way through closer cooperation. The Nordic countries have gone ahead. There's a lot of interest and respect in NATO for what we've gotten into the last few years in the Nordic region in that way. We must also bear in mind – this has been referred to both in the Foreign Minister’s statement and in several comments – that our biggest and most important allies, the United States, are now looking a different way. They do that with good reason, because, from Washington, the trends in Asia and around the Pacific have become even more important than they once were, and in many ways it makes sense that they are now taking some kind of dominance in the idea of security policy. I want to stress that it is not just in the American world that Asia is becoming important. Since it's the same world, Asia is also becoming more important in our world. We also have to deal with this. But of course it has some implications for the capacity of Americans to contribute here in Europe. Some Europeans are concerned that Americans are reducing their physical footprint, reducing the number of bases in Europe, so that Europeans have to contribute more to themselves. For our part, this change can actually have a positive sum, because the Americans say they will replace a static presence with an increased dynamic presence – in other words, understood as an increased exercise presence in Europe. Few sites in Europe are better suited to practice than just in Norway, not least in northern Norway, and there is a great deal of interest in doing so. There is also a fundamental reorientation of security policy in the United States, which I believe will spread to other NATO countries. It is said very clearly that the focus that has been on the long, tough land operations for nation-building purposes, as we have seen in Iraq and Afghanistan, is now on the way out, and has been given a new focus on the seas – hence sea and air battle forces, good intelligence and action in the cyberdomain. I believe that this is right and wise and, moreover, very much in line with the thinking that we have been doing here in Norway for several years, in our own priorities. But it's clear that this is drawing a different picture from what we thought was just a few years ago. It is very important that we – in our own work on how we put together our defence – remember that the defence consists of more than basic choices and where to put the individual capacity. We also need to remember why we have this defence, and we have simply summed it up as follows: we need to build a war-preventing threshold, both alone and together with our allies through Article 5. We should be able to contribute to it in our territory and in the territory of our allies. Moreover, we now need international co-responsibility, but the order of these two is that Article 5 and the defence of our own and allied territory come first. The international co-responsibility is derived from it. This means that the challenges we have pointed out for a long time, both in terms of having a good and far-sighted foreign and security policy and in organising defence in line with it, are becoming even more important in a time of crisis among our allies. And our responsibility to participate in the debate with our allies – not least in NATO, but also in the Nordic and other contexts – on how we can meet more challenges together and in that way move money, not out of the defence budgets, but into more operational capacity, becomes more important than ever. This is how our defences and our allies can become a good piece in a sensible and preventive foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e596	The Minister of Defence draws a picture in which we have a reduced capacity for collective defence on the European continent. This is a serious picture, because we know how difficult it is to rebuild capacity once it disappears, and Norway is a country that has largely based on this ability. What consequences does the Minister of Defence see with this for Norway, and what can the Minister of Defence warn that Norway may need to do differently in order to meet and compensate for this loss?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e603	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for the question and would like to begin by referring to a very concrete initiative that I took at the previous meeting of the Minister of Defence. It was to offer our operating headquarters at Retan as a pilot project to see how national operating headquarters can be connected more closely to NATO's command structure. It was well received by our allies and was also used as a basis for follow-up. This is about making better use of existing national resources in the NATO framework. The second consequence is that we must constantly think about that, in addition to basing ourselves on the Article 5 support we will receive for others when the crisis becomes big enough, we must have a relevant and present ability to face a threat until it reaches the level of need to trigger the Article 5. This just requires a further conversion of the Defense in the direction we have been working on for several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e610	Afghanistan was also part of the presentation. Our military presence is about to change, and there are challenges on many levels. One of the challenges is Pakistan. Recent reports confirm what has been reported in the past that Pakistani intelligence also supports Taliban forces inside Afghanistan, or in particular in Afghanistan. How do you meet this challenge in a NATO framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e615	I think Norway was one of the countries that first focused on the difficulty of understanding the challenge in Afghanistan isolated from the region. A number of measures, not least in the field of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, have been aimed at improving regional dialogue on the challenges — including, of course, dialogue with the most important neighbour, Pakistan. There is no secret that environments in Pakistan are engaged in different aspects of the conflict in Afghanistan and that it is part of the picture. It just proves that solutions need to be found that Pakistani political and other forces are involved, and I would say that the NATO alliance is considerably more aware of now than you might have been when this operation started in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e620	I also thank the Minister of Defence for a sort of mini-declaration. I fully share the perspectives that come there. We also have today, from the Right, a meeting with the Conservative Group in the Nordic Council, precisely on security and defence policy, which is a good venue for discussing the Nordic perspective. However, recent signals from the United States, France and other countries that, although the timetable for withdrawal from Afghanistan is fixed, there has been some desire to delay the withdrawal. Someone is talking about the summer of 2013 as a possible goal for this. At the same time, commitments have been made to reduce the number of security forces currently being trained in Afghanistan. The challenge is that this can contribute to the actual undermining in the final phase of some of the results that have been achieved, both in terms of security and military, and to the early release of the ball. What can Norway do to help keep attention up at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e627	I share the concern of the full representative, Eriksen Soreide, for this. There were some recordings at the recording of the previous NATO meeting that could give the impression, at least in the media, that someone had intended to leave Afghanistan before. This was – in a good way, I believe – sorted out in the meeting by a joint stress that we are running out, we are on the Lisbon commitments, but during this period we will shift from a main focus on leading operations to a main focus on supporting Afghan-led operations. It is important to know your visit time for when it is replaced. I think it's right that the change takes place during 2013, but all the time with a look at us being there together out of 2014, and that the Afghans both get the message that the time has come to take more responsibility themselves, and get the security that we won't travel the day after this transition takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e633	In the light of NATO’s adopted strategic concept, the neighbourhood principle and the clear statement by the Minister of Defence here, is there a risk that Norway will be left standing alone to exercise close-up surveillance and control — with the backstop that was just given? We see that the Chinese have an ambition to double their defence budget by 2015, Russia is increasing 20 pst. per year, Europe kisses accordingly. The United States has to cut $487 billion. dollars for a decade. Will we be in the situation clearly presented here by the Council of State that the alliance will not be able to exercise what is the prerequisite of the entire concept? Are we faced with an isolated existence in exercising surveillance, authority and presence?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e640	This is a question of both ability and will. As I said in the post, I'm concerned about the reduction in NATO's collective capacity – which is not evenly distributed, but larger in some capacities than in others. When it comes to will, I mean it's on the side. It is also important to stress that, in parallel with the economic challenges facing many allies now, there is an increasing interest in the Arctic, for the seas in general, in emerging major acts, as the representative just mentioned. That's why I imagine we have a significant potential to further develop and actually increase our allies' interest in our neighbourhoods as well. In concrete terms, I have invited both my Canadian colleague and my Dutch colleague to the Cold Response exercise that we are going to carry out in March, for two different visits. It's part of a work that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I are doing to show the challenges and opportunities we have to our close partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e649	It was an interesting account, to call it that, of the economic challenges facing not least NATO. Some of us have just attended a parliamentary meeting in NATO context, and our American colleagues were then partying by saying that while from the American team ten years ago 63 pst were standing. Of the total expenditure of the alliance, 77 pst is now in place. There is no doubt either that the action in Libya pointed towards the fact that some of the major powers on the European side may not be on the capacities that you should have, once you are a very strong supporter of that kind of action. My question is: in the broad security policy picture – does the Minister of Defence think this will have any meaning in relation to the balance between the United States on the one hand and Europe on the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e656	The representative Syversen asks a very timely question. Now, almost regrettably, the balance will change because the Americans are facing considerable cuts. But that means that we might get a better balance, but at a lower level. It doesn't make the matter much better. What we learned from Libya was that a number of NATO countries — not least NATO countries such as Norway and Denmark — had a significant capacity to contribute to the operational situation. But the infrastructure, command-line management apparatus that must be behind such an operation requires a significant American footprint, and if not present, Europe has less ability than many might have thought. That's one of the reasons why we're now going to think "Smart Defence," do more together and just look at these things that bind us together. It's not buying more fighting media that's the main challenge, but it's making them work together in a good and sensible way that's NATO's big challenge now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e663	In October 2010, just before the NATO summit in Lisbon, I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a looping message in relation to the work on NATO's strategic concept, in view of the desire to reduce significant nuclear weapons and Norway's concrete contribution to that process. In his statement on Tuesday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norway notes increased support among NATO countries for the desire to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons, but that Russia in particular is a challenge in this regard. What I want to challenge the Minister of Defence is what concrete impact Norway is doing on these issues towards the NATO summit in Chicago in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e670	Firstly, our line is all the time that we're going to have an open door and a will for dialogue with Russia, but without giving Russia any veto over NATO's decisions. It's an important principle, and we're on it, both parts of that line, even in times when we can admit that the challenges are pretty big in terms of finding a common understanding in Chicago of what we had an initial understanding of in Lisbon a few years ago. Secondly, we have been given the impression that the strategic concept says that NATO joins the vision of a nuclear-free world – that is, the first time NATO says – as a very long-term vision, but that one should see its own work in the field that is compatible with what is happening in the Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT. So I want to share the slightly positive experience that one of our best allies in the work to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons is now the Americans, and that there might be other allies who are more demanding in getting focus on just that side of the work in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e679	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e682	Since we had similar debates about a year ago, dramatic things have happened in Europe. It has been a difficult year, and it is a difficult situation in many countries in Europe. First of all, I would like to dwell on the picture we often get from the situation in Europe in Norway. To my great amazement, a picture has taken place in Norway: that the Greeks are lazy people, they work little, they retire early and have a good time to thank for the misery they have ended up in. The latter is probably partly correct, but with some insight into Greek everyday life, I think we'll find a rather different situation than the tabloid variant here at home. The Greeks are hardworking people, many of them have more jobs and are in a very difficult working life. I'm one of thousands of Northmen who are often in Spain, spending a lot of time in Spain. There is a very difficult situation, the everyday life of people has been dramatically worsened, youth unemployment was on record 48 p.m. – i.e. unemployment among people under 25 years of age – and now it has increased further and is about 50 pst. It's so dramatic, it's hard for us here at home in Norway to imagine it. Is it so important to us what is happening in Europe – in Greece, in Spain, in other countries? We are not in the European Union and we do not have the euro. Is it really that important? Yes, when the Europeans get in trouble, we also get in trouble. When Europeans buy fewer cars, Raufoss is less likely to do. And when Europeans get less advice, they buy less stress-less from Ekorenes. It is in our interest that there is order in Europe – Norway is dependent on Europe. In this picture, some of the time debate on the EEA Agreement becomes difficult for me to understand. For Norway, the EEA Agreement is very important and essential for Norwegian business. In fact, I partly agree with the committee chairman in her reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In fact, I'm a little worried about attitudes that are gradually spreading in Norway about the EEA Agreement, that it's kind of just giving up. I believe it would have been a disaster for Norway and Norwegian business if we had not had the EEA agreement. It also brings me to the very current debate on the temporary agency directive. For me, it's a very difficult debate to understand. I have read with interest the Young Right in today's Evening Post, where a Young Right-Member says: ‘It is surprising that the NHO, Frp and Right go out and celebrate a proposal that makes it more expensive for businesses to employ inexperienced labour.’ Yeah, that's how the right-hand side of Europe debates. I was at the same weekend meeting as the representative Syversen was at, the president was there too, and I used the opportunity to talk to parliamentarians from European countries – party traps from me – who say: in our country it is the right side that is against the Services Directive – sorry, President: the temporary agency directive. We need to see the context of what we do, and what we debate at home in Norway. I'm going to leave the Stortinget immediately, not because this debate is not important, but I'm going to do something even more important: I'm going to the health centre with my 15-month-old daughter and take the vaccine. Norwegian children are lucky to participate in the Norwegian vaccination programme – eight times in total from three months to 10th grade. All the children of the world should be as lucky as my daughter. I am therefore pleased that efforts have been speeded up to increase the vaccination of the world's children, and will here bring forward the global vaccine alliance, GAVI, for their brilliant work with the director, Dagfinn Højbräten, in the head.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e704	I think the Foreign Minister's statement is good in terms of both Europe and the EEA, and partly very good in terms of the importance of Europe and the EEA for Norway and the Norwegian economy. Our trade with Europe is significant. The EEA, without membership, is at the heart of just that trade. I just hope that the members of the government parties just as clearly understand and want to understand the clear message served by the foreign minister. But I want to spend my allocated time talking about areas I think were far weaker in the Foreign Minister's presentation, especially related to democracy and democratic development and human rights. At the same time, I would like to commend the Foreign Minister for the powerful work that Norway is doing in the fight against the death penalty and religious freedom. It's excellent, and it has Right-Crystal-Clear support. But I want to focus on Syria and Burma, even though it was very tempting to have Belarus, Ukraine and China in mind. The situation in Syria is like a civil war to count. At least 7,000 people have been killed so far in the conflict. It's a regime that doesn't scold any means to cuddle its own population, which is currently using heavy weapons against civilian targets, and where there is a conflict in densely populated strata that is the norm. Our two brighter goals must be to put an end to the violence and that President Al-Assad must go. Until that happens, I believe that there are three measures that need to be taken and that we must help to implement. The first is a unified, or at least a cooperating, opposition in Syria, the second is that safe areas must be established in Syria, and the last is that there must be a greater degree of international interference. On 4 February the UN Security Council had a mild text of resolution under consideration. The UN Security Council, through its resolution, wanted to distance itself from the use of violence and made clear that the pre-conflict errors lie with the Assad regime, and that President Bashar al-Assad must leave. The resolution was met by veto from both Russia and China. Russia's desire for a strong alliance with Syria goes back to the cold war. It actually goes back four decades. Russia currently has a maritime base in Tartus, Syria. It's a formidable Russian arms export to Syria. Just a short time ago, a fighter plane was 550 million. US dollars sold to the regime. It was while the regime was in the conflict it is today – with its own inhabitants. At the same time, Russia says that they are uncertain about the alternative to an Assad regime, and that they think it can be worse than today. I want to be clear on that. Firstly, I believe that Russian arms exports to Russia are morally reprehensible and that it should have been subject to international sanctions. Unfortunately, they're not in place. Now, what you've seen is that with Russian help, you get to develop the violence even more clearly. To use Qatar's prime minister's words, the Syrian machine of violence is rolling. And with my words at the end: with strong Russian help and assistance. Syria is, as I said, dependent on a more unified opposition. Sunni Muslims, Christians and Kurds must work together, not only now during the uprising, but also when the uprising is over and crowned with victory. At the same time, you must be clear to the alawets that you do not want revenge. Turkey wants – and can – to play a significant role. If safe areas are to be put in place, they must be at the border of Turkey, and Turkey must, together with the Arab League, be responsible for protecting civilians in the areas. Norway must support Turkey and the Arab League to do so. We must continue our condemnation of the regime as we do, and we must continue to strongly condemn Russia, not just for their attitude, but for their involvement in the conflict, which makes the conflict worse and not better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e723	Living in the north, the world as a workplace, solid roots in the Center Party – it's actually a very nice starting point. I must first of all just praise the representative, Mr Höglund, who today put the problem of environmental toxins on the map. However, not only China is responsible for mercury emissions, it is also linked to climate change, which will bring about drastic changes in exposure. I want to start with arctic conditions and climate in the first place. The Arctic is currently exposed to some of the fastest and most extreme climate change on earth. It affects the entire planet, but it also has great consequences for the health of the four million people living in the Arctic. We have a commitment as a nation. It's just a few generations since we were a poor country. Now we're doing with solid resources that have to give us an international commitment. I would first like to point out the situation of indigenous peoples and ordinary people living in Arctic areas. We talk most about emissions in our climate debate and how we can sort this out internationally and globally. But what kind of consequences does this have for people living there? It's a reduced and changed food supply for indigenous peoples and common people in these areas that are not so well known, because it doesn't come out very well in the media. Both reindeer — caribu, as it is called on the other side of the Atlantic — and freshwater fish are eradicated. It disappears polar bear, it disappears. All of this means that the food supply for people in the north is going to be completely different. As a result, they have to import our Western diet. And what does that mean? This means that we get a completely different disease situation for people. We get more cancer, we get more heart disease, we get sick overweight, we get diabetes. All these are things that actually have a great impact on our situation in terms of peace and interpersonal relations. When we talk about infrastructure in Siberia, there are things that should come out in the debate. This has to do with our relationship with Russia. In Jakutia, there are cities where over half of the buildings are destroyed because the permafrost is changing. In Anderma, for example, there are 90 p.m. of the buildings in the process of sinking due to the permafrost. There is a great risk of accidents and infectious diseases, and changes in the environmental situation mean that children's growth – we will come back to that in the context of our communication on global health, which is now coming – is actually threatened by this changing pattern. They're the most vulnerable. What does this overall health situation entail? Well, it's that we get a mental health that is getting worse acutely and chronically for people living in the north. What does it mean that people get mental problems, it's alcohol abuse, abuse? In Greenland we now experience that half of the population have experienced violence, and that 25 pst. by the women have experienced sexual violence, while we now find oil off their coasts. What does this mean? Well, we have to take into account sustainable development for people living there, when we're going to take care of the natural resources. I am very pleased that the Høybråten got hold of the global health message, which we will discuss later. Vaccine programmes are good, but it is actually the way that the vaccines and vaccine programmes are now also affected by climate change. We have studies that show that the effectiveness of vaccines changes when the environmental toxicity situation changes as well. We have to think completely here. I'm not going to go into the discussion about the global health message right now, but we who are working around this are very happy that the discussion is coming. Finally, I would like to withdraw to the north: our challenge for sustainable development, when a close-up swims in oil, gas and minerals, is that we must not participate in an overrun of the indigenous peoples of the north. We must contribute together to sustainable development. We have a culture and tradition that is a necessary corrective factor for the other nations that are involved. First of all, when we don't take the defence debate now, that means we have to have a clear presence. This applies in the form of housing, infrastructure and defence. Finally, my concern for Russia is not that it is the ones that will be the problem if we act. On the other hand, I'm more concerned about the other actors who can now get into the picture, like China and the other Asian powers with growing economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e751	Last night's revision, we saw the report on Spyros. Spyros is a young man in Greece, educated in higher education and now gets to cut the salary for the third time – this time by 22 pst. But he's still lucky because he has a job. In a country where unemployment increases by over 7 pst. In a year, he's lost his dream. Yes, he has even lost faith that he can dream – the politicians have taken it from him, he says. Some far east continues what some now call a civil war, in Syria. According to the UN, 5,400 people have been killed, many have been executed, by the brutal regime of al-Assad. To continue the sweep around the world: we heard today that media censorship is increasing in China, while in neighboring Myanmar we can enjoy a very positive development. Women, children and disabled people face discrimination all over the world. In Afghanistan, 2012 and 2013 are critical years to ensure that the results achieved do not disappear and that we are able to plan both the withdrawal of military forces and continued development assistance in a good way. In Norway we will soon have our citizen no. Five million. It is likely that there will be a work immigrant from some European country. Siv Jensen thought Tuesday that the Arab spring should instead be called the Arab winter. Firstly, with the external budget of the Progress Party, it would not be very much resources to contribute to peace building and stability, but now it is just that. The point is that it is important not to have unrealistic hopes of how lasting peace and stable democracy are built in North Africa and the Middle East. Looking at our safe Norway, it is easy to overestimate positive developments. I want to remind you of how, for example. Europe evolved after World War II with a two-part Europe, east unfree and isolated, where the Berlin Wall could exist for 40 years. I disagree with the Centre Party and No to the EU that the development of Europe and European cooperation have subsequently been an elite project. What happened from 1990 onwards increased integration and cooperation internally in Europe, and it became significantly closer based on a political and popular desire for peace, stability, solidarity and economic progress for all. Now also give North Africa time to find its way without judging north and down development based on perhaps unrealistic and naive notions, but also demanding that it should happen in a short time. Norway should be a support and a partner, if they want, on their premises and if we can make a difference. The development of Norway in the last 120 years — the struggle of the working class for social rights and the development of the Norwegian model — has given us citizens freedom. In the world context, the situation in Norway is unique. We belong to a small, exclusive club of nations where political choices make us reasonably good. In the United States, it's still like losing your job, you lose everything. The middle class in the United States can no longer afford to send their kids to college. If you get unemployed and sick at the same time and do not have insurance, you may be really bad out there. Working poor is a concept in the United States, but also in the United Kingdom – although people have jobs, they are equally poor. Differences are increasing in these countries. The financial crisis leads to poverty, social unrest, the emergence of right-wing populism, right-wing extremism and national governance at the expense of international cooperation. We also see it in Norway. We hear these voices in Norway, in Europe and in other parts of the world. For the Workers' Party, it is important to warn against such developments. The answers to the challenges we face, whether peacemaking, financial crisis or climate problems, are more international cooperation – not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e778	In such a debate, it often turns out that there is more disunity than what gathers, so that it should not be said that there is only disagreement in the debate when I take the floor now, I make it clear that we from the Christian People's Party agree with much of this statement. But as it is announced, we have different views about the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the government's description of the situation in the Middle East. The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about the fundamental core of the conflict — the occupation. I am convinced that there is another moment that needs to come in if we are to talk about the core of the conflict, and there is a reluctance on the part of very many people on the Palestinian side, and on the Arab side for that part, to recognise at all that the State of Israel will exist. This was also expressed by the representative Højbräten by saying a few words about what was said – not at any meeting, but at an important meeting – at the marking of the 47th anniversary of Fatah recently. Muftia, and I remember that he is the highest religious leader of the Palestinian government and is appointed by Mahmoud Abbas, came up with the words that the representative Højbrätten referred to. I add that the manager started this meeting by saying the following: ‘Our war with the descendants of apes and pigs is a religious and religious war.’ [[i.e. the Jews]] Then the sheik got the word, Mufti Muhammad Hussein: ‘47 years ago the revolution began. What revolution? The modern revolution in the history of the Palestinian people. In fact, Palestine as a whole is a revolution, since Umar came [[Kalif]] [[(to conquer Jerusalem in 637 C.E. (cr.)]] At Fatah's anniversary, Ismail Haniyeh has been in company with Ahmedinedjad in Iran and told them that to them there is never anything going to be called the State of Israel: ‘...on behalf of all the people seeking freedom of the world, I say that we will never recognise Israel.’ I also have to say that something that disappointed me when the Palestinian Prime Minister, Fayyad, was here this fall, was when our own foreign minister used torturma to describe the economic situation in the Palestinian territories by talking about waterboarding against the economy. I do not think this is a positive contribution from the Norwegian side to the conflict at all. So to the last thing that I want to bring up with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That's what Norway did during the UNESCO General Conference this fall. I stand here with the speech of the State Council Kristin Halvorsen held on behalf of Norway, where she says: «Norway would argu that these issues» – i.e. membership for Palestine – «should be dealt with in New York first and before tournament to specialised agencies or UN bodies.» So voices, despite Kristin's words in the general debate, Norway to take up Palestine as a member of UNESCO. I want to challenge the government on what happened in those days, hours or what we are talking about between this speech – from an SV leader to an overture, asking that you not go to the admission of Palestine – and that the Foreign Minister has obviously intervened and made sure that Norway votes in favour. And what has the consequence been? UNESCO now has a broken back, cannot implement any of its programmes as they should be, and people, who have been there for ten to twelve years, are cancelled. The entire organisation is in fact destroyed, as it is now in UNESCO. And I ask, is it this procedure that you want to use in other contexts when this question comes up in UN bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e808	I thank you for a good and interesting presentation and also an interesting debate so far today. There is no doubt that the Afghanistan issue will be high on the international political agenda even in the time to come. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has made it clear that there will be a new statement on the issue in the Stortinget in May/June. Nevertheless, we are in a situation where time is catching up, and where it almost looks like it's going to be crowded at the exit gate from Afghanistan. One ISAF nation after another proclaims that one wants to get out faster than previously planned. The message has been collected and collected from Afghanistan. It was stated in the statement that Norway leaves Faryab before the summer of 2013. The backstop is, of course, also the economic situation among the NATO countries, throughout the alliance, which bears the mark of being in bad shape, to say it mildly, which was honestly and very clearly pointed out in the Minister of Defence's speech here earlier today – a description of the fact that the alliance is almost unable to carry out its core tasks. It will ask the natural question: what happens when ISAF, when the alliance releases the military ball in Afghanistan? How should we be able to transfer security responsibilities to Afghan security authorities in a robust manner? The Minister of Foreign Affairs has explained the donor meeting that was in Bonn, but I am concerned that, although it refers to positive prospects in political meetings with the Taliban, after recent events among Afghans, working for French partners, and also Norwegian partners, we have seen how this can end up in a bloodbath if we do not get a transition that is controlled and robust, as everyone wants. This will be a transition from a military to a civil task, and will be the central issue in the future. I think we're all looking forward to the statement that comes in the month change of May/June, where the question to us all will be if we just literally, literally, release the ball too early. I fully agree with what the Christian People's Party's representatives Høybråten and Syversen have expressed in terms of the Middle East. I don't think the core of the conflict is the concept of occupation. The core of the conflict is the concept of ‘security’. It doesn't last year that we're leaning to say we're going along with the United Nations system. If this continues, we will see that more of the UN's organisations will be less financially able to carry out their task. It is clear that when support for Palestinian UNESCO membership will provoke – to the extent that it will – part of our former and current partners, this will also have financial consequences for the UN organisation. When we listen to what is being said and what is being done by Iran, with terrorist attacks just now in Tbilisi and New Delhi, and when we hear at the same time – and we have no reason not to believe in Hamas leaders, including Fatah leaders – that they will never, under any circumstances, approve the State of Israel, this must also be taken up by the Norwegian Government to a greater extent. I think we need to be more able to make stronger demands in connection with our gigantic money contributions to the Palestinians in this conflict. If we do not make stricter demands to also have a security solution that can provide for the future recognition and protection of the State of Israel, this will remain a powder barrel that we never see a political solution to, and where the Norwegian giant money contributions indirectly can almost help keep the conflict going.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e823	This is a debate that I've been looking forward to, because that's how the public change of words in Norway can often become a bit nauseous when you look at the world and look at it. That's what we're doing here today. Because even though Norway is a small country, at the same time we are part of a big world, and it is a world that faces a lot of challenges, and then of course the question is, What is the best we can do to solve these challenges? In the foreign policy statement, the minister was on most of the important issues we face in the world today, and that is one of those that I would like to say a few words about, namely the conflict between Israel and Palestine and their way to peace. Unfortunately, as the Foreign Minister said, the parties in many ways work longer from a peaceful solution now than they did in the past. It means, in my opinion, that it is more important now than in the past that Norway contributes to ensuring that the road to peace remains on track. This is a difficult conflict that has left deep wounds on both sides. But I think it's important not to lose focus on the core of the battle, and it's that Israel is an occupying power that constantly expels Palestinians from its own country by allowing illegal settlements. This, combined with the occupation, prevents the introduction of essential goods and services in order to build up the infrastructure and maintain its own economy, makes it all a desperate situation for many. This continuing situation has led several Palestinians to turn their backs on diplomacy, turn their backs on the negotiating line and join movements that do not follow democratic rules. Some would use this as an argument to cut off our commitment to the peace process and more or less allow the Palestinians to sail their own seas until they have settled their own affairs. This is a mentality that I think is fundamentally wrong. The fact that the Palestinian people are divided is undoubtedly the factor that makes the peace process considerably more firmly established. I mean, on the contrary, that such a situation speaks to increase our commitment. The Palestinians must know that they are not alone in this. Just so it is said: I mean, of course, in line with everyone else, that nothing can excuse acts of violence against civilians from any party in a conflict, nor the Palestinians. But this cannot mean that we should turn our backs on a population in distress every time extremists take the law in their own hands. That's why I thought it was very good to hear that the Minister's statement stressed that we should continue to contribute to the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian self-government authorities, and that Norway, as a nation, is ready to recognise Palestine as a state. I think that's an important signal to send to the Middle East. I think it can help give the Palestinians the self-confidence they need to create reconciliation within. Because there is no doubt that one of the most important contributions to peace at this stage is that the Palestinians do not remain divided. It's like this thing that with all the other things that are taken up in this room, it's about people. The people who live in these occupied areas do not have good lives. I don't think we can sit here and pull the shoulders of it, and I feel even more confident that we are going to do what we can to improve the situation of the Palestinians, after hearing the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e836	First, I would like to thank you for an exciting and rich account, with a lot of concentrated information in many fields and from many countries. I keep to this post in the north and the government's most important strategic area. Norway is a major power in the energy policy sense, and the recent developments in the Barents Sea reinforce that image. The region is rich not only in oil and gas but also in large, unused areas for wind power generation and in large mineral deposits. All these areas require a better developed grid for the supply of electricity, both in and out of the area. These are major and time-consuming issues, but it is nevertheless important that the State and the State network provide for the development of lines to the extent practicable. It has been decided to extend from Balsfjord to Hammerfest, but it is essential for further industrial development that the line is also built from Hammerfest to Varangerbotn. Without such an extension, half of Finnmark will still have too poor access. We have great opportunities to exchange electricity also with our neighbouring countries Finland and Russia, but then the capacity needs to be expanded. We now have a visa-free zone between South Varanger and the corresponding area on the Russian side. It will mean increased exchange, increased people-to-people cooperation and opportunities for increased nutrient development on both sides of the border. It will be exciting to follow this work closely. We've had a steady increase in border crossing Storskog, and with this grip, the passage makes it much easier for those who live in the border area. I record that the population of South Varanger is looking forward to this innovation. The sharing line agreement cannot be praised high enough. It was a diplomatic and political victory that has been cleared up after 40 years of uncertainty. In this area, I have to say that one can use the popular term ‘good work’ – both to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to the Prime Minister. We have recently received reports of increased radioactivity in the air above Finnmark. It was not within the danger limit, but it is quite clear that there is still something that needs to be improved in the alert procedures between our two countries. It is not fun for the Finns when nuclear submarines burn in Murmanskfjord. I feel convinced that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is following up all such incidents and helping to improve routines. The Russian border area is highly industrialised — to put it mildly — with high sulphur emissions. Murmanskfjorden also houses a large part of the Russian nuclear submarine fleet. There are many diplomatic tasks here to ensure predictability and safe and correct alert procedures. Increased use of the north-east pass and extended ice-free areas increase the risk of oil spills and other types of accidents. A joint agreement between the Arctic countries on search and rescue is a long step forward. Now there's a new agreement related to joint action on oil spills. These are important common challenges, where the countries involved have common interests, but where we are coastal nations, of course, have the greatest interests. Research on oil spills in ice-cream areas should be stepped up in order to ensure the current and future activity. The work of the Arctic Council is important for the nation of Norway, and I look forward to the continuation, both in the Council and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So for the discussion about the agency directive. In the fishing industry in Finnmark, last year we saw some very bad examples of social dumping. Our great export industries, fisheries and aquaculture, cannot be ashamed of social dumping and unworthy pay conditions for temporary workers hired from EEA countries. I myself have seen examples in my own municipality of why we should include the agency directive. This also gives decent pay and working conditions for workers in Norway, and we cannot close our eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e857	I want to use my speaking time to comment on the situation in Myanmar – or Burma. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points to the clear signs of positive developments that we have seen recently, which are very promising for the people of Myanmar. At the same time, we know that political prisoners are released with clear conditions that, if they commit the same insults to the regime, they will have to pay the penalty to which they have already been sentenced. We know that until recently, there have been and continue to be serious violations of ethnic minorities by the regime, and we do not know whether the regime is actually willing to give up power on the day when the people use their freedom. Nevertheless, there is no doubt: Myanmar is inside a development that hardly any of us had ventured to hope for just a few months ago. It promises very well, and the signs are clear, the signs are clear: here it goes with relatively fast steps in the right direction. The question then arises: how can Norway and the international community contribute to the greatest possible progress towards democracy and human rights? The answer to that is by continuing to use carrots and whips, and it's a question of dosage and timing of the tools we have. There are two important issues that we must consider. Firstly, we must assume that the references for President Thein Sein and the regime when driving this process forward are not necessarily Norwegian and Scandinavian democracies, but that there are also perhaps neighbours and friends in the ASEAN area, in other words countries that are sufficiently open to deal with the outside world and have normal relations with the outside world, but still commit gross violations of human rights every single day. Secondly, we have to assume that large parts of the international community are approaching Myanmar with great, heavy geopolitical interests and economic interests, which are driving the major international players in their relationship with Myanmar. Both of these two conditions point to the relatively rapid stabilisation of the situation, and thus the international community must release pressure when developments have come to a point close to several of the other neighbouring countries in the region, where neighbouring countries and countries with great interests can enter, act and have both economic and geopolitical benefits of it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentions that the elections on 1 April are an important test that can trigger the removal of sanctions again and that it is the current position in the EU and the United States. Yes, we also need to compare our use of instruments and our policies towards neighbouring ASEAN countries and similar countries elsewhere in the world in view of violations of human rights. At the same time, there is one important difference between the other countries and Myanmar, where we are now, and that is that Myanmar is moving. Now there's a process that gives us a historic opportunity to drive this development forward. Then it is important that we do not let go of the roof too early, because the goal must be freedom, democracy and human rights for the Burmese people. As regards the question of further facilitation of sanctions, the Foreign Minister points to current positions in the EU and the United States. At the same time, he points out that Norway has had a special role in relations with Myanmar because of the arrangements we have made. Then it's important that we use that role to work for democracy and human rights, and not let go of the roof for the greater interests that others can be driven by.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e874	Now that it's coming to the end of the debate, I think it might be appropriate to thank you for what I think has been a good debate, and for many important, overall and partly detailed issues that are important. It was also useful, in my opinion, to have the Minister of Defence present, precisely because he so clearly speaks of NATO, the importance of NATO to Norway, as the cornerstone of our foreign and security policy anchoring. I believe that the debate has largely confirmed the agreement on the long lines. This is the tradition of a long tradition in Norway. At the same time, some themes have also been drawn up, some areas, where individual parties or parties are grouped, want to see a clearer Norwegian marking – or what you disagree about. Let me just first say that I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a rather unreasonable interpretation of my rendering of what was said at that seminar yesterday. The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell – who is not here anymore – was also present at that seminar. So the whole point, as I stressed, was that these Russian MR activists and researchers were concerned that regardless of who is sitting on the top of the pyramid, the problem is the pyramid itself. So if you replace the top and insert a new one, there will still be a problem with the system – so it's the system that lacks legitimacy. I allowed myself to repeat that, because I believe that the voice of active oppositionists, of MR champions in Russia, is important to pass it on. When it comes to the question of free trade agreements, I may not think the Minister for Foreign Affairs was fully aware when I spoke. I did not call for Norway to suspend the negotiations, but I pointed to a real dilemma, namely that we are in a situation where we can help legitimize a political line that conflicts with the political achievement of both us and our allies. It might be tempting to ask why the government parties did not have an overall opposition on a rather crazed note about human rights in the nutrition committee when we dealt with the Free Trade Agreement with Ukraine, where we also pointed to the serious concern for Ukraine's development. We stressed that a mutual opening to Norway and EFTA through a free trade agreement makes it particularly important for Ukraine to demonstrate that its obligations in relation to democracy, human rights and legal certainty are being taken with the utmost seriousness, and not least that the implementation of this free trade agreement requires an active effort to reduce the possibility and scope of, among other things. corruption and lack of transparency. The notes were actually a way of expressing this particular dilemma. Finally, the issue of the EU and the EEA. First of all, I must thank the representative Sverre Myrli for his full support in my reply. But I think it probably expresses something more, namely the consensus there is among at least some of the parties in this room about the importance of the EEA Agreement. Svein Roald Hansen said in his speech that he warned against the attacks on the EEA Agreement, and Morten Højlund mentioned in his introduction that there was a high game of Norwegian interest – that, I had almost said, ‘brinkmanship’, or to borrow a word from the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten in a previous debate, this bulwark against the EEA agreement that he saw from some teams. It is important to stress once again the importance of the EEA Agreement — and has had — for Norwegian business, for Norwegian welfare and for the possibility of developing Norway in line with what is happening in Europe. It is our continent, and we must – and must – be concerned with the development of our own continent. That's why it's so important that we participate so actively. That's why the right of the opinion is that we should apply for full membership when that opportunity affords. But until we do, our EEA agreement is and will become our lifeline to Europe. We're gonna take good care of that. At least from the Right, we will help the Foreign Minister as best we can, and prevent that lifeline from being broken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e889	I would also like to thank you for a good and broad debate, which has established a broad consensus – and deepened some nuances on some points – and perhaps a little more disagreement on some points, not to devalue what someone has pointed out. The representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, raised the question of whether we should not be able to discuss both the EEA Agreement and certain directives in particular. And of course we're going to do that. But now we have an investigation into the EEA Agreement, which is knowledge-based and research-based, and I think it would have been an advantage if the debate had been based on the same knowledge and insight – both in the hall and outside. I believe that when we use terms such as not believing that the EU is blackmailing us if we are going to use the reservation option, we are outside what I would call a substantive debate – then we are over in what we were doing when we discussed EU membership. It's not about that, as I said in my post, it's about a reality, that there's going to be a hole in the deal. Then we must not just discuss the consequences of a directive in Norway. We also need to discuss the consequences of a reservation for Norway and Norwegian enterprises – Norwegian people – in the European internal market. That whole thing has to be in it. Solhjell was concerned about the EFTA Court in the case of the Temporary Agency Directive. I am not concerned about that, as the directive is designed. On the other hand, I am very concerned about what another majority in this Chamber might think about dealing with the Working Environment Act. When we implement the Directive, the principle of equal treatment between hired and permanent workers in terms of working conditions and wages cannot be removed by a majority in this Chamber. It is then protected by European law. And if the employer is now trying not to respect that, you can go to ESA, and you can go to the EFTA Court and get some support. There is a perspective in this directive which is completely out of debate and which I believe is the core and an important basis for implementing the directive. Another example: The representative of Battle Violence Vedum talks about crisis in Europe and uses expressions such as that the only EU can cut now are wages and pensions in Greece. The EU is not cutting anything in Greece. Greece has survived and borrowed over the pipe, and it is only Greek politicians who are responsible for – no one else. It is those who are going to borrow Greece’s more money – which they are unlikely to be able to repay – that requires Greece to pursue an economic policy that makes it credible that they can pay their loan. The EU is assisting Greece in this direction. It is brutal what they have to do with cures, but it is not the responsibility of the European Union or of the European Union. So I just want to say that the problem-setting Bård Vegar Solhjell traveled, about how we're going to relate to the gradual movement of interests east, not only commercial but also purely social, is a very interesting challenge, which is important for our ability to follow in that movement. There has been a debate on the free trade agreement negotiations with Russia, which began as a debate with Russia, but which has become a debate with the customs union Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus. Just one additional element to the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: EFTA has assumed that we do not enter into free trade agreements – do not implement them – with countries that are not members of the WTO. Russia has now become a member of the WTO. Kazakhstan may be able to do so before we finish the negotiations, but Belarus has a long way to go – not to say a rather demanding wall to climb over. They must have implemented reforms. So I don't think it will be the launch of any free trade agreement with Belarus, even if we were to conclude negotiations with Russia and Kazakhstan and start. Only to Hans Olav Syversen, who repeated what Dagfinn Høybråten said about the muftien's statement at Fatah's anniversary. That's what the Foreign Minister has reacted to, it's gone. It is clear from the Labour Party that the recognition of Israel by the Palestinians is a prerequisite for a peaceful solution. We also assume that a Palestinian-side assembly provides a basis for respect for Israel's security needs and for Israel's existence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e906	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place in the Chamber. I've been listening for a while, and I want to say it's been a very interesting and very good debate. I also think the Foreign Minister's statement was very interesting and good. I want to try to draw up a couple of issues that show that although the statement that has been made is a foreign policy statement, it is quite obvious from Norway that both industrial policy and foreign policy are intertwined in very many areas. I'll start with EEA. An evaluation of the EEA Agreement — how this agreement has been applied to Norway — has just been submitted, which has had both positive and negative effects. I have been to several of the presentations – both by Sejersted and by Sverdrup – in this case. It was particularly interesting – it was probably last Monday in Brussels that we were presented with this report – that we, among other things. In the light of what we are doing, what is called ‘non-voting members’ in the EU was referred to as ‘non-voting members’. When we look at the number of directives we've implemented, when we look at how involved we are in these processes, without being with and voting, I think that's a proper assessment. But what worries me a little bit is whether we as an organ, like the Storting, are really aware of the extent to which we are actually involved. A number of agglomerations, including: The Progress Party has been presented to the report and presented to it. I hope all the big groups do the same, but I also want to encourage the committees to take this very seriously. I am very pleased that I got the nutrition committee today to invite to create a seminar on this evaluation to try to get involved in these things and what this involves for us, and to what extent we are involved in and not least affected by the EEA Agreement. I also challenge the other committees to do the same, because we have to take these things seriously. I think the more information we get, the more we get into this, the more understanding we get from the importance of this agreement for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian companies that depend on exports. Furthermore, I would like to address the ongoing free trade negotiations with Indonesia. Last week some of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to the EFTA/EEA were in Indonesia and discussed and were informed about this. What I think we need to review by the government is how comprehensive these free trade agreements are and can be in the future. Of course, I am fully aware that initially it is the Minister of Industry who is responsible for the Free Trade Agreements. But when we see, for example, on the part of Indonesia that, in a meeting with the delegation, the Minister of Trade pointed out quite clearly that a purely free trade agreement with EFTA, which was based only on the free trade agreement, was completely excluded, and that other things had to come into the picture in order for it to be put into place, through capacity building in the country, it is obvious – at least for the undersigned – that this is no longer a matter for the Minister of Industry alone, but must involve both the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Grand Duchy and other bodies with a much wider pen. I believe that if these things are to become more and more relevant in the agreements that EFTA is making, we must also be involved in this matter and put down a number of posts. Because it is clear that if the free trade agreements are to introduce ever new things, this should have been discussed on a broader basis. The representative of Morten Höglund was also involved in this in his article. Some of these things may not have to be done through the Free Trade Agreement, but, where appropriate, through bilateral and other agreements. I hope the Foreign Minister will look at these things and consider how to grips with this in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e921	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a rich, good and interesting presentation. In particular, I want to focus on the development we are now seeing in Nordic cooperation. There is a strong cultural community between the Nordic countries. This good community needs to be further strengthened, and I am concerned that the work is taking place, among other things. in the Nordic Council and in the Nordic Council of Ministers, must be strengthened. It is ongoing, for example: Here's a job of removing barriers between the Nordic countries, and here I think it's going very slowly. There is little progress, although fortunately Norway is also an active driver here. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his speech that Norway holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2012, where the main focus is on the challenges facing the welfare state in the Nordic region. The Presidency programme is divided into three parts: work and sustainable well-being green growth, knowledge and innovation Nordic cohesion The chapter on work and sustainable welfare states: ‘Knowledge and education are in themselves well-being and essential to enable individuals to pursue their goals and realise their abilities.’ There are major challenges here, and school dropouts have evolved into a major societal problem. It is a paradox that young people in Europe are ‘longing for’ education and work, while many young people in Norway are dropping out of school for various reasons. The Christian People's Party, in its work on the Northern Territory Communication, has shown examples of this challenge of school dropout and demand a knowledge strategy that makes the communities of the north better equipped to seize the opportunities and meet the upheavals that large national and international companies create in their wake. The drop-out in high school for boys in Finnmark is 70 p.m. Several young people need to be motivated to complete secondary education and to obtain further education relevant to work in the oil, gas, mineral, renewable energy, fisheries or tourism industries. North Norway has a great opportunity, but also a major challenge, to ensure that local youth is trained and equipped to benefit from the ring-fences that increased future activity in the north will bring. The business organisations, such as the OLF and the NHO, have long expressed concern about the lack of locally competent labour. Early response and practical variety of training at all levels of the education system contribute to the prevention of non-response. For this reason, it is positive that during the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Norway focuses on preventing exclusion, which can start already in kindergarten, and will take the initiative to increase the number of children in preschool age on the agenda of Nordic cooperation. In a situation where Europe is struggling economically and we are experiencing uncertainty and unrest, Nordic cooperation is more important than ever. The North is under pressure. Norway has now chaired the Council of Ministers, and Minister of Cooperation Rigmor Aasrud is doing an excellent job that is driving this work. I also hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have a full focus on Nordic cooperation in general and also on the important work being done within the framework of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e958	I am pleased that both human rights and respect for democracy have been given a central place in this debate. I want to use my last post to talk a little bit about Burma and the development – the very rapid development – that has now been witnessed in Burma, especially from August last year. I fully share the joy of the Minister for Foreign Affairs associated with the development of Burma. These are unusually rapid changes — much faster changes than one could hope for and believe in in advance. It is now – let me do a list – a number of things that have happened: Many, but far from all, political prisoners are released, and Aung San Suu Kyi, the informal head and leader of the opposition, is released from his house arrest. Her party, the National League for Democracy, NLD, is sheep and will be present at the supplementary elections in April. Armistice has been established with several ethnic groups. On 30 September last year, Parliament in Burma was informed that work on the huge hydropower project in the Irrawaddy River, of 6 000 MW, has been suspended – at least out of this period, which will end in 2015. It is very gratifying, all the time this project would have driven 10,000 people, most of them from the Kachin population – and exports would have gone to China. So what you've achieved in this change was to break free from the Chinese team and control of the country. You put your own people up higher, there's something completely new about today's military junta. The environment was also put on the agenda; it is also relatively new in Burmese context with the military dictatorship. But much remains – and I think that to some extent is missing in the Foreign Minister’s presentation. The country is still a dictatorship. There are a number of political prisoners who are released, but there are many more who are in prison. Those who have been released – a great many of them – have been clearly informed that if similar crimes are committed, they will have to pay not only their remaining punishment but also receive new punishments at the top of the whole. There is no respect for general human rights in Burma, even with these changes. Media is still – and will be, as it looks, for a long time – in the hands of the regime. I would like to point out that perhaps some of the worst problems are related to ethnic minorities. Half of the country's population are Burmese, while the other half are different ethnic minorities. Some of the minorities who have suffered the worst have normally lived at the border with Thailand. There's a truce, and I'm very happy about that. At the same time, there are those who now have the biggest problems, on the border westward. I had visits from, among others. A representative from one of the ethnic minorities of the week who was, and he told me something that I would characterize as a genocide, that an entire population is at risk of either assimilation in the society that is, being pushed out of the country, or standing without rights – and thus the only opportunity now is an armed uprising. He said that for this population it was quite a short time if they were to survive as an independent tribe. That's an argument that I think it's important to keep going. The world's eyes are now focused on the supplementation option that takes place in April. If we get a clean election and a clean election, this is a very important milestone for a better future for Burma. I think it is important that we support the process that is taking place. I would like to commend several, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the dialogue that has taken place, especially in recent times. I think you've been out too early with praise, but now it's very important to give carrots in view of what's happening. Penalties need to be eased if the Burmese prove they're worth it, and we need more diplomatic contact. Burma also needs membership in international forums, but only if Burma is worthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e972	I think there has been a rich and good debate with many good contributions. My good colleague, Svein Roald Hansen, couldn't stop getting into my post in his final post, and I have some comments on it – because I can't help not having it either. I would like to refer to a statement by Mr Hansen on the crisis in Iceland. Svein Roald Hansen said: ‘When the Icelandics get firm ground under their feet, they will conclude that the Icelandic krona is unsustainable.’ In the same article, the claim was that Iceland would apply for membership in 2011 and that Norway would follow swiftly. That claim has probably fallen on its own unfairness. It has been seen, in the current financial crisis, that Iceland has had a completely different freedom of action than many other European countries that have experienced a fundamental economic crisis. The fact that Icelanders have had their own currency has enabled them to introduce capital controls, have allowed them to devalue and have a completely different competitive power, and have been able to rise in a completely different way than has been possible in many other European countries. Now we see, in 2012, that it has been an advantage for Iceland to have its own currency – not a disadvantage. That freedom of action, all indications, will still be enjoyed by Icelanders, and there is nothing to suggest that Norway will give it away. What's the big challenge, and I'm surprised that not the strongest Euro fans see it, is that a country like Greece, which is on the brink of bankruptcy, and a country like Germany, where it goes, laughs, has very different challenges in terms of its currency. Once the currency is adapted to the speed in Germany, it is not a good thing for a country that is going bankrupt, like Greece. In the United States, there is also a large continent with a single currency, but there are large, strong federal budgets that also finance public expenditure, and the federal budgets have the power to implement measures in areas and states that are struggling. There is no such thing in the European Union. What's my point in the post, and what's the Central Party's point, is that when you introduce a single currency without a common fiscal policy, you make yourself very vulnerable in times of crisis, and we see that now. Therefore, this trend in the EU is moving towards more and more federal governance, more and more federal control and more towards a United States of Europe. If it had been a great popular wish, a great popular will or a common language, it could have been a democratic project – if that were what was desirable. But that's not what you wanted, and it'll only be the elite who can participate in such a democratic change of words. We have 80 different languages within the EU zone, and there is nothing to suggest that we will not have many different languages within the EU zone in the future. So it surprises me that the strongest yes supporters here in the Chamber do not see what fundamental democratic problems the EU zone is facing, not least because they introduced the euro without political support for it. You've now come into a coercion that means you have to centralize even more power, even though a great public opinion doesn't want it. Fortunately, the Norwegian people have said no twice, and we can thank them for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e992	The economic situation in the EU is challenging. The Financial Committee has travelled and visited both Germany and Italy. The Progress Party has met with ambassadors from several of the other EU countries to hear about the situation. This concerns Norway to a large extent. The EU is our largest export market, both as a customer and as a neighbour, we should be committed to helping them get out of a difficult situation. I think we should respect their challenges. Some debates in the United Kingdom and in the social debate give an impression when, for example: The Prime Minister goes out and says that if all countries had done as Norway, this would not have happened. He said that when he visited Sauda a few years ago. The budget debate in November gave the impression that they can thank themselves in the EU, because they have believed in a dynamic tax policy where they would only increase tax revenue by cutting tax rates. None of the countries we have visited have conducted such a policy. To the extent that there have been changes in the level of taxation, there has been a slight increase in the years before the financial crisis, not a decrease. By making such a black-and-white picture, and when you talk about the economic policies of the countries, I don't think we're giving the respect we're going to have for our neighboring countries that have problems. The debt crisis is due, inter alia, to: Measures that we also support in Norway – a counter-cyclical policy – where some countries have had to borrow money in order to pursue a counter-cyclical policy, because they do not have large oil revenues. Keynes is strongly in government, so they should have respect when some countries conduct such a policy. But in some countries it is because they have had too large public sectors; they have given themselves up for good welfare arrangements. Sees one, for example. in Greece, one sees that only 20 pst. of the population over 55 years of age at work, while the same figure in Norway is more or less around 65 pst. Then it's obvious to many people who live on public funds without contributing, and they have to do something about it – but I'm not trying to apologize to them. Poor tax access is a problem, more than the level of taxation. The fact that people don't pay their taxes is a bigger problem for Italy than the fact that the tax level is too low. As a percentage, Italy has higher tax pressures on income than it has in Norway. The problem is that there are a lot of people who actually make money, who buy Ferrari rather than go to the tax collector to pay their share. They also have to clean things up. But I think we're going to make this debate more complex than just pretending that if they'd only done like Norway, everything would be fine. We also need to respect the fact that the EU project is quite complicated when it comes to the introduction of the euro. It is extensive when so many countries go from having different currencies to trying to do something together, because they aimed to improve the production of business and hence the well-being of the country. This led to their being given a single currency and a fairly common level of interest rates, while they had different fiscal policies. There are some countries that have borrowed too much, because they used to have more expensive loans. When they suddenly received cheap loans, they were unable to limit how they inflated the public sector in the form of welfare schemes and in the form of other goods. When one cannot relate the risk to each country, through interest rate setting, an unpriced risk gets the right one. Now it's happening right now, because you've become aware of this. Then the extreme results, for which some countries now have to pay a lot. It is therefore in our interest that the European Union should get out of this situation. Therefore, the Progress Party is also positive that Norway is contributing IMF loans, as long as we do not take too much of a share in relation to the other country. We're going to have respect when the United States, Japan and other countries sit a little bit on their backs in this connection. We are not going to take an unnecessary risk of helping other countries, but we are going to try to contribute to the greatest possible share of the risk. We also need to take a discussion about the oil fund, which should have a broader investment base than it has today. The share is too high. That makes us take too high a risk, and the European share is too high. This means that we also invest too much in high-risk shares in areas that are at high risk in the economy. The Norwegian Bank's capital adequacy legislation in banks must also be in line with what is happening in the EU. It is important and right that the Basel III rules be introduced, but we must avoid further stringent requirements for Norway by the Financial Supervisory Authority than they make to competitors. This means that Swedish and Danish banks can operate in Norway and win at prices above Norwegian banks, without meaning that the risk of Norwegian economy is lower. We also need to use the action space provided by the Norwegian economy to invest in infrastructure in times like this. There is considerable available capacity in many of our neighbouring countries, and then we can solve some of our infrastructure tasks without costing taxpayers in Norway particularly much, which allows other countries to get their economic activity going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1015	Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1018	I have not tried to deny the challenges of introducing a single currency into twelve and eventually perhaps 27 countries linked to their ability to conduct a responsible economic policy. That is what has happened, that we have not complied with the limits of the Stability Pact. And as others have said, the euro has undoubtedly given Greece access to cheaper loans than it would otherwise have received. So here, too, the market has failed, which in the past has not seen these major imbalances in the protection of the euro and more reasonable loans. But what I put down in the first article of the Battle of Vedum was the expression he used that the EU cuts in Greece. It is the responsibility of Greek politicians that what they have borrowed is irresponsible and that they have not led a responsible economic policy. Now they have to have loans, and then those who are going to lend them demand that they are able to repay that loan. It's painful, but it's not the EU's fault.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1025	Thank you again for a good debate. There were some questions about my post that I would like to comment on briefly. First, to the representative, Mr Olsen, who was concerned about the situation in the northern region on the environmental side. She was also concerned about the situation in Russia. When it burns in a submarine, we're worried. There's extra reason to be alarmed after what we've heard in the last few days from official Russian speakers, that there may have been weapons on board that submarine, while it was once stubbornly claimed that it wasn't. I have therefore today instructed the Norwegian Embassy in Moscow to address a specific request to the Russian authorities for an answer to this, so that we follow up what we believe is the clear commitment in the 1993 Alert Agreement between Norway and Russia to have full transparency on such cases when a crisis occurs. Then I would like to thank you for the debate on the situation in Myanmar, Burma. I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Håbreek, who is the head of the Burma Committee here in Stortinget, with whom I have had useful contact along the way. The two representatives of Skovholt Gitmark and Håbrek pointed out many of the challenges we are facing in further development. But what both saw, and as I think we all see, is that something is going on. We have to try what I hear my colleagues now say, to lock in that progress, so that it does not get backwards. And then is the long list of where Myanmar can go wrong in democracy, capacity building, implementation, implementation of the law that has now been passed, and the management of the very dramatic ethnic conflicts. But what I think we're observing is that it can hardly get any worse than it was, so we're on some proper course. Then the question is, do we have any responsibility to participate in that course? And then we can use terms like "pice" and "carrot" – like for me. I think we understand what we're talking about, but it's about giving encouragement to the right development and discouraging the wrong development. We look forward to close contact with Stortinget about this. Then I listened to the representative of the Syversen, who put forward views that I believe are legitimate. I agree with much of the criticism of statements. I've said that before. But if it was an expression to show how to have a balanced approach – it might not be the intention of the post – it was a purely one-sided review of one side of the case. Fair enough! It was Norway's position that the Palestinian self-government authorities should have passed their resolution to the UN General Assembly, not to the UN Security Council – I have been open to it – last autumn. It was also our advice that they should pursue the case in the United Nations in New York and not take it to the special organizations. That's what the State Council Halvorsen said on behalf of Norway when she spoke in UNESCO. When they went to UNESCO anyway, we wouldn't deny them the right to do that. It is worth saying that a large majority of UNESCO's member countries, very large, voted in favour of that membership – a majority in the world, a majority in Europe and a majority in the Nordic countries. So that's what the company Norway was in. And now, when UNESCO has financial problems, I'm going to distance myself from the claim that they're lying with a "useful back" and are a "damaged" organization. And now, for the most part, don't give the Palestinians responsibility for it, because it's because of something the representative didn't point out, that's American legislation to cut support for UNESCO as a result of a country being accepted by the majority of the members there. There could also be reason to ask some critical questions about it. 23 pst. So the budget is being cut, and that's obviously dramatic for an organization. But I don't think we're going to play it by saying that they're lying with ‘used back’. The Palestinians are welcomed by the majority of UNESCO's member countries, and then one has to find a way to develop that cooperation. To the representative Nesvik: I think he pointed out something very interesting about the visit to Indonesia. I have heard other representatives who participated in that visit, say the same thing: they discovered the extent of the relationship with the very important country in Asia. The representative, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, was concerned that we now also need to gain greater understanding in that region, and what it means that Norway gets more contacts that way. The Free Trade Agreement will in many ways regulate matters which are quite standard in free trade agreements, whether they are agreements with Colombia, Indonesia, or those we have mentioned in the Chamber today. It is not unlikely that the free trade agreements will change their character in terms of content, but I think they will have a quite standard WTO-inspired legislation in the bilateral. But it is absolutely right that we now have an extent in our cooperation with Indonesia, from logging to free trade to comprehensive political dialogue, among other things. a very interesting human rights dialogue, which makes it appropriate to look at the overall agreement on how we cooperate with this very important country in this region, not least in view of issues related to Myanmar, where Indonesia is an important state in ASEAN, and where Myanmar will be chaired in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1042	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1056	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1065	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives for promoting this matter, after the involvement of those affected by it. Although the position of the committee is shared, I think it is important that the matter be raised. I think it's time to raise the issue and raise the debate. The dialogue with all the parties in the committee has also shown that there are many who have thought about this and that there are many who would like to discuss it. In particular, the dialogue with the organisations concerned, the Information Society's Fund and the KS, as representatives of the housing owners, and the Church's organisations, in relation to associations and employees, has shown that everyone has an involvement in this respect. The proposals in the case are also reasonably similar, although there is probably some difference in the progress. It is important to consider what is the intention of the housing scheme. I think one should remember that, first of all. The most important thing is that this was introduced in order to ensure good services to the communities and accessibility to the pastor. The second was to ensure applicants for the positions of performance and to ensure the opportunity for the priests to change their place of employment in a good and easy way. The experience is probably slightly different, but it is also said in the report of the Housing Committee of the Preste Association that this no longer works after the intention. It has been an exciting thing to work with, which involves many. What's going on is that everyone suggests that there's a need for a change. There are different reasons for the change, and everyone I've been in contact with has challenges and concerns. It's primarily because you don't know what the alternative is. How is one to meet the intentions behind the housing scheme? Then it goes to look at who is applying and not applying, and where they are applying, and it turns out today that there is one group of priests applying for housing, and another group applying for non-residential housing. So it does not work according to the intention – that performances should be able to change freely and properly between positions. This is a challenge. There are more and more applicants for exemption. It is a challenge for the priests who are going to serve, and not least it is a challenge for those who are owner-occupiers. In the event of a change in the housing scheme, there are some things that become absolutely essential to be in order before a new one starts. So, first of all, you still have to keep recruiting. One must deal with the question of the proximity of the priest. Does the pastor have to live in the field of duty? Many of these dwellings are valuable cultural memories, to be managed and preserved, and the option is often not that simple, because they are usually located until church buildings and in such close proximity that it is not so easy to detach them. There are clergymen living in homes today, and they will need transitional arrangements. In particular, it will trigger tax challenges for those living in dwellings. At the moment that the residential obligation disappears, it triggers completely different arrangements. But, as I said, everyone has the same basic attitude: some changes have to be made. It does not work after the intentions, and then we have to dry to grips with it. The party of progress will immediately remove the requirement for the parish priest. When the Right has not wanted to agree to it, it's because you feel that there are challenges that have not been resolved. That is why another proposal has been put forward. The majority will wait for what the Preste Association says, and it's great, because it's important to have respect for the employees. But when we remember that the main interest is the best of the communities, and what can ensure good services in the community, it's also important to take it with us. The right has therefore proposed – and had hoped that we could get together on this – to initiate a process involving all stakeholders. I am sure that the matter in any case initiates a process and will thank you for the good input from everyone I have talked to in connection with the matter. Then I hope the Preste Association gives the necessary signal. I think this is almost a first-time treatment, or the start of a process. I hope the government parties and the council will follow up. If not, in any case, the Right, along with the Advance Party, make sure that the matter does not end with this. Finally, I address the proposal from the Right in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1099	The representative of Svein Harberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1102	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, who has done a very thorough and good job with regard to the case concerning the cancellation of the place of residence. He had an unusually good presentation of the matter. I think that's absolutely worth mentioning. The discussion on the lifting of the dwelling obligation is far from a new date. The housing obligation has been a theme and a repetition at the Preste Association General Assembly several times, without finding out how to solve it. A little bit of history, I would also like to include: So the obligation to live back to the Middle Ages, as the operation of the precincts constituted the main income for the priests. There were two main reasons why one had a place of residence: the presbytery was a place of service with an office and a meeting place for church work. It was supposed to ensure recruitment. Today, the church council in the respective municipality is responsible for the church office. The pastor has also received nearly the same working time and wages as other employees. In many cases, the obligation to live is actually the reason why performance refuses to take up service. For some, it is an advantage that there is a dwelling and waiting for the newly appointed pastor. This can be solved by the municipality being helpful in getting the local priest housing if he wants to. The housing obligation is an antiquarian scheme that has expired a long time ago and prevents the clergyman from living in owner-occupied dwellings. Some clergymen feel that living is a burdensome duty that interferes far too much with the private lives of the clergy. An example of how the dwelling obligation is experienced is described as follows: «I saw in our stova – our stova! We've moved in our own house for the first time, at the age of 60 plus. We've come home, home to Skår! For 27 years we've been bidding in Masfjorden Presbytery, and we've had so much fun there! But even if it was our home, it wasn't our home anyway. Every year, a flattering thought has lurked, what if something happens to the priest? Where should we move if the family has three months? on the move? Luckily, we've done well, and we've had a'steered' move. The duty of priests is special, at good and bad. We've been booked in a staunch old pastoral building with history, culture and many square meters and it's been in many ways a privilege. The minus for us as a pastor family has our uncertainty about the future, that the dream of owning a nest can only be realized when we are almost retired.» This shows that the obligation to live is not just a good thing. There is consensus in the Committee that there are several aspects of today’s housing obligation regime that should be assessed. Unfortunately, there is no political will to get hold of the old system, which leads to great uncertainty for foster families, and which means that the priests who have their own home, or who want to get one, have to rent it out. The majority will rather wait until the Preste Association has dealt with the matter, and wait and focus on input from the civil servants' organisations before doing anything about the matter. If all parties believe that there must be changes in the place of residence, I don't think it is unreasonable if today there are signals about how a person looks at a future arrangement, so that the general meeting can take it into consideration in the debate they are going to have quite soon. The propulsion party believes that it is, and should be, in the interest of the municipality to be helpful in providing the local priest with housing if he so wishes. The Progress Party also believes that today's housing arrangements are not in line with the requirements and assumptions underlying current performance or employer policy. Therefore, it should be wound up, as has been the case with housing for other groups, such as state officials and defence employees. "My Home is My Castle," they say in England. We also say that here in Norway, and then it's a terrible sin for all the priests who don't get the opportunity to get their own living because we have an antiquarian system, which has actually expired many years ago. So the priests should also have the opportunity to say, ‘My Home is My Castle.’ With this, the Progress Party promotes its proposal in the case and asks for the vote to be put to the vote so that the Progress Party can subsidly support the Right proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1132	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1135	Obliga was historically part of the clergy's salary. She is defined both in the law and in the Services for Priests. I allowed myself a little history: It was not until 1955 that the priests in the Norwegian Church were state salaries. Until then, the priesthood was a necessary part of the clergy’s wages. Obstacles were not lifted, even if the provision of the prestige was no longer the main income of the pastors. The 1957 Geistliche Wohnungslaw, § 9, contains a clause on the obligation to pay the priests. This home was replaced by a new – § 33 – in the Norwegian Church Act of 7 June 1996, which is in line with the remuneration law of 1957. But we're going to notice that in that law, there's nothing about duty. Obligation is governed by Section 19 of the Service Arrangement for Collective Performances, which is determined by the Crown Prince's Resolution of 19 October 1990, under the terms of Section 16 of the Constitution. This shows that the service facility has been, and is, part of the clergy's normal conditions of addition. According to this scheme, the priests have not only a duty, but also a right to stay in the service building that has been added to the position. This means that the repeal of Section 33 does not remove the obligation of professional secrecy, but only the municipality's obligation to provide housing for the priests. This, in turn, will lead to major economic and administrative consequences for the state. It has been a consensus on the obligation and the obligation of our intentions. The overarching purpose of the obligation to provide services has our need for: to have the clergyman resided within his own borders, based on the proximity, security, visibility and functioning of the local environment in the service provision scheme to contribute to the recruitment of national performances to contribute to the mobility of the performance; Societies and communities are constantly changing. We have to take this over. New schemes often need to be adapted to these changes. This may also be the case for the priests and their orders. For other professional groups in our country, the obligation to provide services is essentially lifted. As you can see, it is enough time to look at whether the clergy really work according to their intentions and what should be passed on. In my view, in line with developments elsewhere in society, it should develop a practice that is good both for the pastor and for the parishioner. It is too easy to deal with the issue of conscripts without taking into account the large geographical differences related to the housing market, housing prices, housing standards and recruitment to the performance profession. Therefore, it is wrong to be completely or completely contrary to the obligation principle before several aspects of this matter are more thoroughly dealt with. We are aware that the Preste Association is going to deal with the issue of conscription at the General Assembly saying now in the spring. In the Labour Party, we find it natural to await this General Assembly. We would like to see recordings from service staff organisations on the right before we take a final position on this matter. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left support the government party in this vision. I think it's strange that the Progress Party, a party that is usually occupied with holding up with the Church, suggests such a radical measure as removing the entire consecration arrangement overnight, without discussing this with those who owe it – the priests of the Norwegian Church. Finally, I would like to thank the case spokesperson for his good cooperation. We'll probably get more possibilities to talk in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1175	I would also like to thank the proposers for reminding us of an interesting debate. I would remind you, because this is a debate that is going on and to which we are now, through the change of words here today, making our contribution. Most of it has already been said. Here it has been good presentation and a lot of good articles to get wise. A further reason for this debate to arise, or rather to start, is that in connection with the whole of this state-church debate – this is the gradual separation of state and church – not least the Church itself must, in an offensive way, address this as an employer and look at how, in all possible areas, it is possible to facilitate its ‘employers’ in order to use that concept. Just on that basis, on the basis of this employer's justification, I think it is so very important what is in the proposal from the majority here, and which is absolutely also in the proposal from the Right: this must run a process on, it is a process, and it should just be lacking that we are not running a good process on it. This is the case, as others have said – and I am also a little surprised by the Progress Party – that there are different views out here among those who benefit from/be hit by the current system, for very understandable reasons. To the extent that I'm going to say something about what I think is going to be the solution here, it's that I both believe and hope that the new system will be a flexible system, where those who are going to benefit from such a dwelling have the opportunity to put in their wishes and thoughts about this. So I don't think at least the individual parish and the individual municipality will also act a little different here, among other things. based on how best to recruit people for performance positions, and on how one can at all stand out as a most attractive employer. So I look forward to an exciting debate further, both in itself and as part of the big debate that we are going to have in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1186	I also want to join those who have thanked for keeping the debate warm. I think it's very important that we have such issues up to discussion at regular intervals. The system of consecration for parish priests has a long history. The obligation to live was historically part of the remuneration of the priests. The Presbytery was therefore often a farm with a large building and with work for several linked to the farm itself. In the book Norse Presidiums Jan E. Horgen writes: "In the middle of the village was the precinct. A garden among the largest in the village, with large houses, with species-rich garden, with fields and meadows that often, but not always, were among the most well-driving. Everyone in the village knew where the priest lived. Everyone had an errand there once in a while. The road to the vicarage never grew. Yours wasn't just looking for villagers for church or secular affairs. Also the passerby searched there for nightly or a little longer stay. The priesthood was a small center where many roads and many people met." The main rationale for the scheme has been its proximity, safety, visibility and functioning in the local environment. The housing obligation has acted as an important tool to ensure recruitment for performance positions throughout the country. In the old service arrangement for parish priests, a provision was made to the effect that the priest could not live outside the care allowance without the agreement of the department. Such a provision ensured that the pastor lived in the pastor’s debt/debt, which has been central to the justification for having a place of employment for the pastors. In a new service arrangement, this has been changed to prevent the pastor from living outside the service district, i.e. the prosthesis, without the ministry giving his consent. The scheme contributes to the maintenance of mobility in performance. The idea is that changing the position is easier when one can go from one rental relationship to another rather than having to look for and rent the dwelling itself, or alternatively buy and sell the dwelling in connection with the move. Historically, then, the needs of the assembly or employer are at the centre. Obviously, not all of the reasons of the past are valid for the congregational performances that are still bound by the dwelling obligation in their congregation. At the same time, there are still arguments in favour of a scheme to ensure the pensioner's housing at the place of employment. In today's society there is no need for any farm or large building to serve its community. The pastor has got his own office, and no one expects him to look up the doors of large rooms for the parishioners or passersby who needs nightly. What was considered to be the most important means of ensuring performance coverage today may have a sharp contrast: it may appear to be a barrier to recruitment. Lack of maintenance, large and draftable houses with additional large firing costs are mentioned as some of the reasons why the clergy hesitate to accept a job. While workers in other professions are free to raise their own capital by owning their own housing, the same opportunities do not apply to their own. In this way, the obligation to live is a commitment that limits the economic freedom of the pastor and his/her family also for the future. If a pastor wishes to change his pasturage after several years of pasturage, he will start far after the others who are otherwise on the housing market. In a situation where, for example: The pastor dies, suddenly the rest of the family will also be in a very difficult situation. The obligation to live has been discussed internally in the Church several times. A selection set up by the Bureau of the Preste Association has looked at today's housing scheme. The housing arrangement, after what I have heard, is to be held at the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Association this spring. As with similar surveys in the past, the clergy are divided into the question of whether the scheme is a good or not. However, if they were able to choose freely, they would answer 72 pst. that they would prefer to live in owner-occupied dwellings. Nevertheless, we also see that there may be many advantages that municipalities have a duty to provide suitable housing for the pastor or the prosthetic. For the Centre Party, the importance of recruitment and ensuring performance in the country is crucial. A scheme established, inter alia: in order to take account of these considerations, it thus appears in some cases to be able to stand in the way of its own purpose. The centre party is to remove the dwelling obligation in the long term. At the same time, however, we see that the winding-up of the scheme raises a wide range of questions – which have also been explained by the rapporteur – that need to be considered and that require a number of considerations to be taken into account. In this case, it is important that the parties concerned have their hands on the steering wheel. Then we will consider further the proposals that may come. I refer in this connection to the setting and comments that affect this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1225	As we hear here in the hall, and as many have been through, there has been long-standing agreement on the housing obligation and intentions with it. Many have said something about the criteria that have been important, and what has been good about living. Let me mention three: One is the need of the congregation. It has been a clear assumption. Having a priest who is close and present means much too many. The priest is often present in the nearest ceremonies of church members in connection with weddings and in connection with funerals. Then it's to have closeness and knowledge important to many. Understanding the community you work in as a priest is important. Now, the Proste reform and some changes have made the distance to the very close local community more significant, but the question is whether removal of the housing obligation leads to a further distance. Other arguments have been that we must have priests throughout the country. Whether this works positively or negatively, yes, the learned are fighting—or the spiritual, we can almost say in this context. There is no doubt that having mobility from residential areas with expensive dwellings to less expensive residential areas would be difficult. If you start your service in a location with low housing prices, without housing and housing in place, moving to a larger press area may be difficult. Then you can see that within a number of professional groups you move less today than you did before. Someone has been inside the defense as part of it. Changing jobs, not only going from a pastor to a pastor, but also going from a pastor to another profession, will be a challenge. I believe the great lack of living has been that the consideration of the pastor and the pastor's family has not been mentioned as the good intentions with it. That, I think, has been one of the reasons why the Preste Association has repeatedly been concerned with addressing this discussion. From the 2000 general meeting – we had this up in 2006 and will have it up in 2012 – many had believed that at these junctions the priests would have gone to cancel their place of residence. It's a signal to us that the priests with a rather presumptuous majority have repeatedly stressed that they want to keep this place of residence. So many people, and there's a lot of people here, that it's also about living satisfaction. Those who are satisfied with the obligation to live are often the ones who are satisfied with the dwelling in which they live. Those who are dissatisfied with the obligation to live are those who are dissatisfied with the level of housing in which they live. It can be about maintenance. Then I think, if there's bad maintenance that's the challenge, it might be possible to solve this by doing better maintenance instead of removing the obligation to live. We have to answer the questions that the pastor and the clergy actually have. In 2012, the Preste Association again had a long investigation. I hear that several people have picked up their posts from that investigation and have gone through a lot of what the Housing Committee has now presented to the General Assembly. I think it's incredibly important that we wait for it. I am, like several, amazed that the Progress Party is ready to wind up this arrangement today. I also have to say that the recording that we could be a consultative body of the Presbyterian Association General Assembly is a strange way to think about it in this room. We are not a consultative body, we are a decision-making body. It's usually the other way around, that it's the priests, the employees, the Church that comes to us with the results of the hearing, and we have to make the decisions. That's the way it should have been in this process as well. And then more people have been into it with pay. I have tried to look for what the representatives are really saying. There is no doubt that if the Stortinget now cancels the living obligation on its own without looking at the general salary level of the clergy, but unilaterally cancels the living obligation without this becoming part of the employee's ability to take it into consideration in a discussion about pay and employment, it will surprise me. I am also very surprised that the Progress Party is ready to wind up the system today. I also think that the right hand point a little too much towards the abolition of this scheme. We want adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1246	The case rapporteur, Svein Harberg, has gone through both the legal situation and the dilemmas of this case in an excellent way. There has been a focus on both the provisions of the Church Act and the service system laid down for community performances today. Let me stay a little on another side of this case, because in addition to the general provisions of the service system, the place of residence is also based on the individual's contract of employment with the State. Occupancy is part of the conditions of employment. Therefore, the obligation to live is included in the appointment of the post and in the contract of employment with the pastor. Therefore, a pastor who has a post of residence has an obligation, but also a contractual right, to remain in the place of employment for as long as he or she is in the post. Therefore, the State has a contractual obligation to ensure that a dwelling is provided. The starting point must be that the State cannot unilaterally change these individual employment contracts. In that case, it would be quite perceptive and far from the way we tend to deal with that kind of question here in the country. It is not a place of residence for all performances. In some cases, performances are published without accommodation, even today. If the vacancy is not filled with a residence permit, the pastor has neither the right nor the obligation to live in a place of employment. Some clerics have also been exempted from a specific assessment, for example: due to old age or health conditions. Today it is approx. 920 vicarage homes in Norway. ==References== 430 of the dwellings are owned by the Information Service's fund and approx. 490 of the municipalities. The figures will vary slightly over time, as dwellings are purchased and sold according to specific estimates. The management of the nursing home is an essential task of the Information Service's fund, both financially and in practice. Since 2002, the Fund has also been responsible for the financing of municipal presbyteries. A regulation lays down rules for the calculation of municipal expenditure by holding pensioners. The amount of the reimbursement to municipalities includes a capital grant for the remuneration of the purchase price of the dwelling, a maintenance grant and a subsidy to cover municipal expenditure. Since the adoption of this regulation, approx. 40 pst. either have been rehabilitated or replaced by municipal precincts. It has led to a significant standard raising of these dwellings, and it is such that two thirds are satisfied with the standard of the dwellings they have today. A repeal of Section 33 of the Church Act would remove the obligation of municipalities to provide housing for the priests, but would not alter the contractual obligations of the State towards the priests who already live in the ministry. The fund will not be able to compensate for the loss of municipal housing during the night. A change in the law now could therefore have a major economic and administrative impact on the State and, where appropriate, on the Fund. One could, for example: imagine that existing municipal dwellings had to be bought out, new dwellings had to be purchased or costs of rent had to be covered. So I think it's important to think that this case is not just about the priest's work. The obligation to live has long traditions, and it would be alarming if, in this case – as in many other cases – we did not refer to what the democratic bodies of the Norwegian Church believe. The churches are significant in relation to what was the intention of this arrangement, and therefore I believe that unilateral abolition of that obligation by a decision in the Storting would also amaze many in the councils and in the councils. So, as many have said here, it is an interesting debate to go to the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Association, where a matter of housing and housing is to be discussed. The report shows that there are different opinions about housing in the Preste Association; some want changes; others do not. Then there are also more employee organisations than the Preste Association that it is important to hear if you are going to go further on this matter. So I believe that it is natural to await the treatment at the Preste Association General Assembly before we decide how to proceed with this matter. But of course, I'm going to both follow up on what's going on at the Preste Association, and have a good ear for what's going on at the Church Meeting and the Council when we're going to decide how we're going forward in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1270	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1273	The Council of State was very concerned about the term of office of the priests and finding a solution there. I am quite sure that it is fully possible to obtain a solution, both with a clergyman and with a congregation that can be satisfactory – as was done with the lifting of the obligation to live in the defence. The majority are also clear that changes need to be made to housing and that it is an old-fashioned system. The obligation to live has also previously been a theme of the Preste Association General Assembly without reaching any conclusions. If they do not make a clear recommendation this time either, will the Council of State take action which will give the priests, in line with others, the freedom to choose housing themselves and not be tenants in public housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1280	It is not only the term of office of the priests who have to change if they are to make changes here — the entire contract of employment with more than a thousand priests must then be renegotiated. I think it's right, as the representative Dagrun Eriksen says, that it would be alarming if this happened without a claim for compensation. So I think it's important to take the possible changes in close cooperation with the Church's organs, and I think it would be wise to listen to the Church's organs also in this matter. Then I think it is right that we wait for both the Preste Association and possibly other organisations within the Church before we decide how we proceed. So it's not like a majority of the clergy want a different order. Most people are satisfied with the arrangement as it is today. But there are others who want different arrangements. So I think a future way is to find more flexible solutions than today's organization, although here and now I don't want to be quite sure about how such a system can be designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1287	The Council of State was clear in its statement that it is not only the Prestige Association that is an important party to the case, because the arrangement is also – perhaps not least – intended to serve the congregation and its members. As a follow-up to this case – regardless of the Preste Association’s decision at its national meeting – will the Council of State actively involve the others in the Church’s organisations in a dialogue to hear what they think about the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1292	Yes, both the employee's side, where there are several organisations that organise performances, and the different other church bodies should be an interaction partner with us in this matter. We are in the middle of a church settlement, and I think it would be unwise if we did not consult the Church's organs in a matter that is important to – of course – those that concerns, the priests, but I believe that the churches and the Church's organs are also so important in this matter that it would be natural to discuss the matter in the forums we have, and the discussions we have with the Church Council, and, to some extent, with the Church's employers' organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1297	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1302	I can reassure both the representative Gieleth and other representatives who have spoken, that the Progress Party is very concerned about having a good relationship with the Norwegian Church. We are also concerned about having a good relationship with the priests and with their families, and with the background of that, we want the priests themselves to have the opportunity to decide where they want to live. If then there are rules regarding distance and such things from the congregation, it will become a matter when that time comes. It has been said a lot now in this case, but what is quite clear is that it is a terribly difficult case for the priests. This is something they have discussed for 10 to 20 years and have had on the agenda on a regular basis. It's not just simple. It is also not easy for the municipalities to make this dwelling available if the bishop grants exemption from the pastor. This applies more than to the pastor and to the community, it is also a challenge for the municipalities, who have to sit with vicars for whom they do not receive full compensation because the pastor has been given the lifting of his place of residence. But the most important thing for us in this case is actually that we believe it's a human right to decide where you want to live. It is strange that it should be so terribly difficult for the clergy to be allowed to live where they want to, when we have seen that other professional groups are able to carry out their duties in an exemplary way, without being further humiliated by living conditions. As far as proximity to the congregation is concerned, the representative Eriksen was in on it and claimed that proximity has already been reduced today. But in the Progress Party we actually believe that the priests themselves are interested in having closeness and contact with their congregation. Why else do they have to be priests? That's what's in the pastor's office. I think this is going to be problematically much. It is not to go forward in this matter to see ghosts behind each corner. It's amazing. We can also say that the priests have actually come so far today that they have introduced new technology. Maybe that's something new for some people. They actually use IT to keep in touch both with the congregation and with individual members, etc. In fact, they also have a mobile phone that allows them to contact and accept enquiries just when it was necessary to fit the congregation and the pastor, who also has a duty period from 9.00 p.m. 8 a.m. until 8 a.m. 5 o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1315	I have to say that the more I work on this matter, the more difficult it has been for me to draw a conclusion in the individual areas, because there are things that speak for and against about all the issues we have raised in the matter. There are challenges that have to be met for the Church, and there are challenges to be met in relation to the clergy. In terms of availability and proximity, as Bente Thorsen was just inside his post, it seems to many to be important that you can get hold of someone. SMS, Internet solutions and web-based solutions may be what we use most today, but sometimes it is that when it comes to that, you have to sit face to face with one or feel a hand on your shoulder. This also needs to be solved. Here we see the tensions in the challenges we have, and we have to find good solutions. The same thing about economics. Yes, of course, this must be part of the dialogue with the performance organisations. We have also noted that in our comments on the matter; it is absolutely central. Some people apply for exemptions because they think they lose money using the scheme, some think it is important to keep the scheme because it is a good economy. Here, too, there are major challenges to finding out what is real and how to solve it financially. There's one point that you've been little about, and that I want to raise. Priests also have families, they often have children who go to school, who are engaged in a local environment. I have to say, I wish that there would have been more flexibility, greater possibility of dispensation to care for children's daily lives in a situation where father or mother might change positions within a relatively close area. Then I just have to comment on Dagrun Eriksen who thought that the Right went a long way to cancel the whole thing. Then I think that I will quote our proposal, because we are therefore asking the government in cooperation with church organizations to initiate a process to liquidate all or part of today's system of housing for spiritual officials, and to promote a case for the Storting with a new system. [[...]] Thank you for a good debate that underlines the consensus on the need for change. I hope the Council of State accepts the challenge, that the matter needs to be further worked on no matter what happens at the Preste Association meeting. I think that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1330	It was essentially the lines that the Progress Party had with the Council of State, which made me take the floor. I think that if the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Association would again end up saying no, it is alarming that the question from the Advancement Party was whether the Council of State would overrun the priests, when they subsequently made a flaming statement that it is the priests we must listen to. It's not quite in the jump. I think someone should look at the story here. Now I took this paper up with me to read the following: In October 1999 there was a housing committee that produced a comprehensive report. This was voted on at the General Assembly. 152 delegates voted to maintain the scheme, while 78 delegates voted in favour of winding up. Then a process was launched in 2003, and in 2004, the conclusion was that the Governing Council would have an impact assessment, somewhat like what we are talking about today. In 2006 one should also have this up. Then a decision was taken not to change the place of residence or to cancel it, but to adjust it. Then there were five points you would like to have: it was to achieve a uniform arrangement for all the service homes, it was to ensure a housing standard that is in line with the Preste Association's demands on the retirement homes, it was that the employer manages all the service homes, it was to ensure a housing scheme that seems to be recruiting, and there were uniform exemption rules for housing in all the dioceses. This received 141 votes, while 71 voted against. Now you have a new sample, and it's going to be treated in ours. The priests see many of the challenges they face, daily. I think that's why so many people, although there's a negative impact on it, still think it's important to maintain the housing obligation system. For the Christian People's Party, it's going to be important what the Presbyterian Association will achieve at its General Assembly. When Bente Thorsen says that we can handle the achievement here by SMS and new media, I do not believe that in some areas, closeness is perhaps the most important thing. It is the priest who carries the death message to many members of the congregation. Priests who are going to work in a youth community need to know something about the challenges that are, they need to know something about the conflicts that are – they need to know something about the drug challenges, they need to know something about the leisure opportunities and the challenges that young people live and work in. I think it's this that makes so many priests refuse to cancel their place of residence. But they strongly stress that we need greater freedom and greater flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1341	Bente Thorsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1344	I simply feel the need to explain something to the representative Eriksen. I have to say it amazes me – I actually thought the representative was fully aware that the most important task the priest has is the deaconal act he has to perform. Then it is very good that I had enough time left to remind the representative Eriksen. In fact, I think the vast majority of us who are a little adult have experienced that a priest can either mean a good shoulder to cry on or a good hand to hold on, or that good words have been said. I think the level at which the representative takes up this debate is rather low. If it was for information about the duties the pastor has, I'd rather thank you for that, but I think most people know about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1352	Dagrun Eriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1355	I do not know which of us started to lower the level when the text messages came into the picture. I think we all agree that the pastor has strong diaconal problems, and that was probably my point when I challenged Bente Thorsen in close proximity. But I also want – unfortunately, the representative cannot answer – to challenge this hall to some formal realities in the matter, namely whether a unilateral can terminate employment contracts without entering into an agreement. Is this room to be the hearing body for a general meeting, or is it where the decisions are taken? We still have not received an answer to that, but we know that the Progress Party is ready to do things, no matter what the Church Meeting, the Council of Churches, the KA and the Preste Association would end up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1362	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1378	The background to this interpellation is deep concern and concern about the development of part of Oslo I live in and am happy in. The starting point is in the Evening Post on the extent of the attack in the areas of the Centre and Greenland Police Stations in Oslo. In ten years there have actually been 6,000 people in this area. There's a little bit more than half of all of this stuff in the whole country. And so: more than one round every single day for ten years. According to the police, the number of people in public places in Oslo increased by 44.7 p.m. from 2010 to 2011. Oslo also has half of the country's seizures, most of which are central to the city. The same area along Akerselva is also the country’s largest trading venue for drugs. The intention of the interpellation is not to draw a negative picture of a really great part of the city, or to scare, but to invite to debate and raise awareness of a problem that affects many people, directly and indirectly, and that is largely influenced by decisions we take here in this room. Sturla Nøstvik is sitting at the gallery today. Thursday, September 22nd, last year. 21.30. He was on his way home from a gambling job for the municipality of Oslo at the event Elvelangs at Akerselva. After transporting the musical instruments back to the practice room, he went home the short five-minute walk. He spoke to the roommate on the phone and told him that he was home right away. One minute from home he got a rush and quite unexpectedly a gunshot turned hard into his head. While the blood ran from a wound in the forehead, herring two ranes with Nøstvik for almost an hour. He was dragged to a forest and put in the ground. The racers spoke poor Norwegian and poor English, but were threatened with the codes from several mini-bank cards with a gun. While one racer kept watch, the other ran to a kiosk to clear the accounts. The racet was brutal and carefully thought out. They have done this before, Nøstvik has told us that he was thinking. When he came in contact with the police the same night, he was received by nice and understanding policemen. They confirmed that they were familiar with the rane method, but could also tell that there were only two patrol cars out in the center streets that evening. We have lost the city, was the message Sturla Nøstvik – Ransoffer nr. 351 in the Greenland police district in 2011 — got. ‘We’ve lost the city.’ It’s a shocking and unacceptable statement – not because policemen shouldn’t say what they think, the problem isn’t that it was said, the problem is that they experience it that way. Overall, Norway is a safe country and Oslo is a safe city. However, the brutal crime of violence in parts of Oslo is a major problem for everyone living here. It creates uncertainty, insecurity, and abstinence. It affects people's choice of place of residence, means of transport and other things, and it helps undermine the trust of the police and the institution of asylum. Unfortunately, it is a fact that many of those who commit crime in Oslo's inner east are in the country as asylum seekers. Last year, the police reported that asylum seekers from West Africa dominate the lower Grünerleukka, while young Somalis dominate and sell cannabis on Greenland and asylum seekers from North Africa and Afghanistan have taken over much of the shell sales around Oslo S. The misuse by individuals of the asylum institution of organised criminal activities in Norway is problematic for many reasons. It is gross exploitation of Norwegian hospitality. Activities in Norway are part of a global problem of organised crime and contribute to attitudes that particularly affect asylum seekers with a real need for protection. The review problem has been elucidated in the media many times. The record belongs to a North African who has been arrested for 54 criminal offences, which have been expelled from Norway four to five times, but has returned again and again. The size has adopted new legal frameworks aimed at making it more difficult for criminals to exploit the asylum system, among others. by providing for the possibility of imprisonment and the imposition of a specific place of residence. I look forward to the entry into force of these provisions on 1 March. It's hard to understand that some embassies are guarded by the police 24 hours a day, so there are only two patrol cars out among ordinary people at some point in the day and in an area where we know there is serious crime of violence every day. The Oslo police district has 2,500 employees. I am not alone in asking questions about whether it works smart enough and is given the right priority. At the end of October last year, after many assaults, the police strengthened their preparedness on Greenland. Nevertheless, when a hit was made on Bislett, the police cars had to go there. A new assault was committed on Greenland. We can't be anywhere, said Oslo's chief of police at Dagsrevyen. I think everyone understands that, but why can't the police give priority to being where they know that people are the most vulnerable? The causes of the violence in Oslo are complex, but it is a fact that a small part of the city bears a large proportion not only of the city but of the entire country's burden. Imagine if Larvik had half the country's violent crime – or Arendal, or Ålesund! The three cities all have about 40,000 inhabitants, about as many as the area we're talking about today. Police report that most of the violence occurs within a radius of less than one kilometer from Oslo S. There are many people living in this area. Here people go to and from work. Here, children go to school and kindergarten. At the same time, the probability of being subjected to violence is many, many times greater here than anywhere else in the country. If we think of Norway divided into units of 40,000 inhabitants, this part of Oslo will, for example, be divided into units of 40,000 inhabitants. have more than all the other 125 units in total. In the debate on the place of residence imposed, we felt that many should have asked that asylum seekers be required to stay at the reception they live on. It was produced as if this were sending criminals to rural areas – understood, they belong more in Oslo. When Stortinget dealt with the state budget for 2012, I noticed that the Minister of Justice decided that the 30 billion we spend on the justice sector should be used to get the most police force out of every penny. And a lot of things are going the right way. The admission of police high school is more than doubled, and on 1 May 2010 there were 1,637 more annual police and prosecution works than in the autumn of 2005. We have put in place stricter penalties for violence and abuse, and in many areas we are doing well, for example. is the clearance rate record high and on the way up. Criminals are given priority when returning persons who have received a refusal to apply for asylum. Last year more than 1,000 convicted foreigners were transported out of the country. That's good. I am sure that the opposition will take advantage of the opportunity to criticise the government's judicial policy. They have to, but the results of this government's work are very good, compared to the previous one. The opposition has a bad case. Either way, we're there. Let's put party politics aside for a moment and discuss: what do we do now? How do we solve a problem that destroys the lives of many people? Fighting crime is about more than police. Oslo Municipality must take greater responsibility. It is about prevention, drug policy, urban development and other issues. But visible police are also important. We must have the most police where there is the most crime. We need a police force that has the ability to prioritize and control the resources where they are most needed. In New York, they cleared the city from below. Do we have anything to learn? Sturla Nøstvik's case has been clarified. The police have arrested those who were behind the raid, and in May the case comes up to court. He's one of the 15 offended. It is good to see that the legal system works, and that illegalities have consequences, but we also have to take the city back. I look forward to the answers of the Council of State and to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1424	I would like to start by thanking the interpellant for the opportunity to discuss the security of the central areas of Oslo, especially with regard to research development. Oslo shall be a city that is safe to live in. Assault of people on the open street disturbs us all. This applies to both robbery, violence and rape. I am therefore concerned that this type of crime should be prevented and resolved. There were 976 reviews of the ran in Oslo police district in 2011. In 2002, the corresponding figure was 970. So the figures have remained at the same level over the ten-year period at a time when the city's population has increased by approx. 100000 more than 600,000. There have been fluctuations in the ratios from one year to another within the period. On a national basis, 1,792 reviews were registered last year. Developments over the last decade are also relatively stable at national level, despite a population growth of almost 500,000. Oslo police districts regularly analyse the development of the city. These analyses give an insight into where and when the ranes occur, the circumstances under which the ranes occur, and who is the victim and the perpetrator. The analyses show that most of the ranes happen, as was just pointed out, in the center areas. There are most cases of rain in the evening and at night during the weekends. Most of the rants happen in public places, most of the time in open streets. There is an overweight of men under 30 years of age among both victims and perpetrators. The stripes are usually performed by two or more perpetrators together. A relatively high proportion of perpetrators have a non-Norwegian background, i.e. that they or their parents were born outside Norway. About one third of the cranes use some kind of weapon, while the remaining ones use other forms of physical power or verbal threats. The representative Haugli refers to an article in the Evening Post on «Ransoffer nr. 351, Greenland’, date 21 November 2011. This story makes an impression. We have also been able to read about the matter today in the evening post. Here it was told of the strong experiences of a ransack victim who was threatened with firearms and held back as a hostage while the mini-bank card was being misused. This is an example of very serious crime, which must be taken with the utmost seriousness. I have been informed by the Police Directorate that the Oslo police district has investigated the matter in question, and that the involved perpetrators were linked to an environment that was behind several cases. A total of nine young men associated with this environment were apprehended, and they are targeted at a total of 16 different countries. Based on a very negative trend in the Oslo Centre in 2008, reporting a total of 550 cases only in the Greenland Police Station Circle, Oslo Police District took action based on a survey and analysis of the research problem and police routines. The clearance of the gran was made into a bet area. Action was taken to ensure better coordination of efforts. The goal was to identify the relationship between cases and perpetrators. Greenland Police Station set up its own law enforcement team in 2009, both proactively and reactively. Close cooperation between own teams, other sections of the Oslo Police District and external cooperation partners was established. The Oslo cases were grouped together and coordinated, where this was implemented. The bet gave results. The number of branches in the centre of Oslo has fallen slightly, while the percentage of clearance has increased. It can be mentioned that since 2009, Greenland Police Station has been apprehensive. 200 different perpetrators. Increased efforts to combat ran in Oslo Centre are also continuing in 2012. Greenland Police Station will continue to have a strong focus on fighting rans. Among other things, the review team will continue to cooperate with the unit working towards open drug users and drug-trafficking outlets. In fact, the use and trafficking of drugs is another factor that contributes to creating insecurity in the Oslo centre. In addition to drug crime, other types of crime are also taking place in relation to these environments, including: ... andviolence. Police have increased their presence in the relevant areas of Oslo Centre, both to combat open-air crime and to prevent recruitment into the environment. The use of mobile police posts outside Oslo S, increased use of expulsions and enhanced cooperation between police and local authorities, as well as between police and foreign authorities, are examples of actions undertaken during the summer and the last half of last year. The police inform us that this has produced results. Some perpetrators are non-residents. There is close cooperation between the Oslo Police District, the Police Foreign Unit and the Foreign Directorate. This cooperation ensures effective proceedings against active offenders and rapid return in cases where a final refusal of residence has been made in the country. The figures from the Police Department show that there were record sentences sent out of Norway last year. Over the course of the year, 1,019 convictions were carried out — an increase of approx. 50 pst. compared to the previous year. The representative Haugli also refers to the extent of assault violence in the city centre of Oslo. I'm glad that the interpellant also addresses this issue in its interpellation. In order to prevent rape in the open street, Oslo police district intensified efforts on weekends months before Christmas. The reinforced efforts of the police to prevent rape continue. Rape is a very serious crime. In order to strengthen the fight against rape, the government will also develop its own action plan against rape. This will build on the 2008 RAC investigation, from words to actions, the Oslo Police District Report entitled Violence in the Global City, and the Oslo Police District Strategy Plan against Rape, as well as the knowledge and experience of other police districts in preventing and combating rape. Police are not only responsible for creating security, but they depend on engaging closely in dialogue and cooperation with both public, private and voluntary actors. In the government's crime prevention action plan, Good Forces, cooperation and coordination are one of the cornerstones. The action plan runs for the period 2009 to even this year and contains 11 measures to strengthen precisely such cooperation. One action is enhanced cooperation between police and local authorities through the Police Council and the Coordination of Local Crime Prevention Measures (SLT). Police have started police cooperation with most of the country's municipalities. In addition, about half of the municipalities have organised prevention work against children and young people according to the SLT model. The government will continue to stimulate such local cooperation. Oslo Police District works from the Motto To work for a safe capital. The goal of the police is to make Oslo safe for everyone who lives and travels here. As I have mentioned, action has been taken to show good results. These measures must continue. The goal must be to reduce the number of incidents, so that we do not get new cases like ‘Ransoffer Nr. 351, Greenland’ in this or subsequent year. I will follow developments closely. I would like to see a reinforced effort against violence, violence and rape, where the specific challenges of the city centre in Oslo are still being taken seriously. We need all the good forces, the municipality, volunteering and the police, to ensure the security of the inhabitants of our capital. The government will continue to work to ensure good framework conditions for the police, more police force and resources in Oslo and in the rest of the country. I expect the police to constantly assess both the impact of the efforts made, and to take any new action, including on the immigration side, to improve the quality of life of crime. It is the government's goal to create more security and less crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1462	I would first like to thank the Council of State for its response, for which I am very pleased. Greater efforts in Oslo are necessary and correct, and I fully agree with the Council of State that this is more than a police matter, for example. what the municipality and non-governmental organisations can do. But it is good to hear that more police force and resources are also a clear objective. Both the brutality and the scale of the attacks indicate that police force and police action are necessary. Oslo Municipality also has an important role to play. It shall be exciting to hear the statements of the representatives of the parties governing there. Specifically, I hope to hear something about what they think can be done locally to develop the area in a way that reduces the possibilities of crime and provides greater security. The Crime Prevention Council has made a number of recommendations, and the Municipality of Oslo has so far not taken them up to date. These include: to avoid popular areas, to ensure good lighting and maintenance, to clean up apparent hiding places and to create attractive meeting places. The Workers' Party, through several cross-sections, has proposed funds for a crime-preventing urban development project and, unfortunately, has been downgraded in these cases. However, the traditional methods of preventing crime are only too little to meet well-organised international criminal networks. They have to meet with police resources and law enforcement agencies that enable the police to deal with the problem. These are things we're going through in this room. Once again – I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice gives an answer that gives hope, and as she herself says, that the ambition is that we do not get any more cases as case number. 351 in Greenland in 2012 and the years ahead. I look forward to the further debate and will finally thank Mr Nøstvik for giving this problem a face.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1480	I also look forward to the debate, because this is an area where the discussion must go. The debate needs to focus on what action should be taken, what impact and what might be less effective than hoped. The government is committed to strengthening the police. We want a more visible and present police force, which is also more public. We want an increased presence in the center, which I also referred to in my post. The increased presence in central areas has produced results, which we have also debated in this Chamber before. This bet must continue. It is essential that the police work knowledge-based. This is one of the reasons why a workers' party government in its time also carried out the college reform in the police. But of course this must also be linked to the development of methods, the use of new technologies and other ways of strengthening police activity. We need to ensure that police operational teams are present not only when the need is greater, but also meet with the expertise they have in order to prevent and combat crime in the best possible way. I am also interested in the cooperation established with the Municipality of Oslo, both through the Police Council and the SLT, where we can discuss which overall strategy provides the safest streets, the safest areas, and which ensures the best possible prevention and effective fight against crime. So I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1493	It's a very important theme the interpellant Haugli has addressed. I have myself looked closely at how people can be hit very strongly, even personally, after as threatening and frightening experiences as those described in the case that were the starting point for the debate here. It is true that this crime has not increased sharply in recent years, as the Council of State described, but it is at such a high level in these parts of Norway as it has been taken into account here, that we need to bring it down sharply. We can't see that it's on such a high and serious level. The number has been reduced by a separate group of probes that were launched. There were 562 cases of ran in Greenland in 2009 and 486 in 2011 — a slight decrease, but above all, the percentage of clearance has increased and almost doubled. That's good. However, when you put pressure in one area – as the Council of State said, there is now a lot of police resources around the Central Station and the neighbourhood there – we see that for example. in the streets where almost 60 pst. In January, there were only three of them, while we saw that they appeared more in the outer parts of the city. So the sweeping episodes will move as the pressure is inserted by the police. When we come to what should be done, I think we should think about how the police can best use the resources they have to do a better job here. One experience we now have from police operations around the country is that building coordinated projects that gather resources to combat evil shows very good results. I just want to mention the project we've had against mobile profit criminals, concerning villa invasions, of which there have been waves in the Oslo area, in Westfold and elsewhere in the country. These own projects against mobile profit criminals have produced very good results, e.g.: In Oslo, we've had almost a half of the house invasions. We have also had a rendezvous project in Oslo that has been shown to be equally successful after working urbanly. What I hope you'll think about here will be implemented, to take a more fundamental approach to the problem of the Oslo problem, is to create a common urban research project using the same model as the urban project against mobile profit criminals, where you can see the wires, see how the environment is complex, and manage to work constantly with it over a long period of time, so that you really get a high level of competence and eventually know the ones behind it, because there are a lot of repeaters in these environments. The second thing I wanted to mention about measures that we need has been announced in the past, namely having a mobile police post in the lower Grünerløkka–Akerselva–Greenland, which has been the most vulnerable to violence and other things, such as assaults, which the interpellant addresses. We've seen that there really has been some of this police post at the Central Station. But it is also important that what was supposed to be a mobile police post in the area I mentioned, at lower Akerselva, is also more often present and can be moved around, in line with where we have most episodes. The third thing I want to mention is that the resources of the Oslo Police must be increased in the years to come in order to be able to solve the problems I mention, as a joint research project and a lot of other things that we know to be done. The Oslo Police have 41 new posts this year, which are included in this year's budget. They got 22 new ones in the last six months last year, which has a full-year effect this year, so they get some sixty new jobs this year. It's a stepping up that's significant. But it must continue in the years to come if we are to deal with these major challenges. It is also important to take seriously the situation of the victims, because there are many who do not get rid of such a problem in their heads, even if you are being cured about physical damage. You need follow-up from the municipality, from the city districts, and you need cooperation with the police on the follow-up of the victims. So that part is also important to take more seriously. Otherwise, I would say that my experience is that those who work with this in the police, take it very seriously, are very engaged and just want support from the Stortinget to do a better job, and that we are helping to get a pressure on this effort, as this debate today can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1512	The interpellant has addressed a very important topic. He said in his statement that he expected the opposition to take advantage of the opportunity to criticise the government's policy. I'll give the interpellant the brilliance for this interpellation. For what is the representative Håkon Haugli here doing? Well, he makes exactly the same arguments that the opposition has made here in the last six years, and they have not received much support from representatives of the government parties. So this isn't any criticism, it's bragging about the interpellant to focus on a very important topic, a topic that is absolutely crucial to creating security for the people of Oslo, and thus getting a good city, which we all want to have. We want to create a good and pleasant city with security, and then this is about stopping crime absolutely crucial. To be exposed to this type of crime, which has been illustrated so far in this debate, is one of the most traumatic things we humans can experience, and especially when we are exposed to not being able to feel safe in our own neighbourhoods, where we are to thrive and have fun. The situation in the inner east of Oslo is well known. It has been presented many times in the media for many years. There's been a theme here in the main hall. Of course, the situation along Akerselva has also been a theme. I am in the situation that I have commuted the train into Oslo for over 20 years, from Akershus and from the neighbourhoods to Oslo. The situation around Oslo S and the lower part of Karl Johan has amazed me in all these years. That one has been able to allow itself to have the kind of situation in the area of foreign tourists — and others who come to the city — the first meeting with the capital of the country. The first people you've met there are heavy drug addicts, prostitutes and beggars. I'm not saying that to hang out these groups. These are people who have it hard, but they should get a completely different offer than staying in this area. Then I have registered that action has been taken in this area, and that is probably also what needs to be done in other parts of the city that experience the same thing. There is considerable involvement of visible police, so that these groups have now become more or less away from the area. It shows one thing, and that's what it takes to create a safe city is more visible police, as we see in other big cities of a completely different size than Oslo, but where you feel safe because there's visible police everywhere you go. Then, of course, I'd like to point out the Senior Patrol in Oslo, which is a very good move, and mobile police posts, also a very good move, where the police can move quickly and also offer an offer to the audience who is calling. The police have to look at their resource use, among others. we need to get more resources for investigation. We have to have zero tolerance, and we have to, as I mentioned, give an offer to vulnerable groups. With regard to the problem of asylum seekers who are staying here illegally and who are involved in crime, I understood that the interpellant, like the Progress Party, also wants them to be admitted to closed asylum facilities. Then you're going to have to reduce this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1529	I also want to start by thanking the inter-pellant for raising a debate that is actually important to the entire nation's population: how we politicians can help create safe communities. I think it's a very strong story about Sturla Nøstvik and his experience with violence and ran to which the interpellant refers. I would like to use this article to address a major threat to youth security, particularly in cities, namely drugs. The use and trafficking of drugs contributes to the insecurity of many of the fine living environments in Oslo’s inner east. There have been civilisations and initiatives by the desperate population to increase police patrols and prevent drug-related crime along the Akersleven. The city must be safe for everyone – 24 hours a day, all week, all year long. Then the police must be there. Now I am pleased to hear that the Council of State signals that she understands this, and that more resources are now to be put in place to meet the need for police presence to combat drug crime, among others. The municipality of Oslo has also contributed well to increasing the safety and security of its inhabitants in the inner east of Oslo. Oslo has deployed weights to patrol high-trafficking areas of drugs, thus helping the City Council to remove open areas for drug trafficking. Many parents today are concerned about how easily available drugs affect and sometimes tempt young people. We know about the extensive sale of drugs at schools, and many children have their school path through areas characterised by drug trafficking. In this respect, I allow myself to give four advice to the Minister of Justice and the Government on drug prevention in order to provide more security. The first is to reject the proposal to refrain from criminal prosecution of persons brought with drugs for their own use. The second is not to accept that Oslo has an open light market place for drug trafficking, such as drug trafficking. Plate or the widths of the Akersleven. These areas need to return to the urban population. The third is to increase the presence of the police, as we have been faced with, in areas where there is a lot of drug trafficking as an immediate measure to increase access to resources to the police. It may be about compensating for the means used by the police districts for the central ICT upgrade. The fourth is to support police resistance to drug injection rooms, because it requires illegal spaces that help to maintain a special injecting culture among Norwegian drug addicts, and a concentration of the problems of some of our capital’s strokes. In this respect, I think it is interesting that former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget recently called for the liberalisation of drugs for his own use and perhaps a lesser degree of punishment in the fight against drugs. This meant that the police would spend less time than they do today and less resources to stop drug use and trafficking than they do now. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice if she thinks this would be a suitable measure to ensure the security of the inhabitants of the inner urban areas of Oslo – and elsewhere, so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1555	It is beyond doubt that we have major challenges in some areas of Oslo in the inner East, and it is good that the representative Haugli addresses this matter and also personifies it for us, so that we see what it really is about. We can't accept that people don't feel safe where they live. The interpellant addresses the problem of rands and rapes, and I, like the representative Skogrand, want to focus a little on drug traffic. We cannot ignore the obvious drug traffic in the area. The image created when the turnover is made transparent and appears to have no effective effect gives a very negative signal effect. Young people growing up in the area are looking at the obvious drug turnover just outside their children’s room, and drug salesmen are also on the school road. It is said that this has an impact on the recruitment of drug abuse and on respect for the law, the individual and thus each other. The problem of punishment, rape, drug abuse and trafficking is related. It gives the same effect: people feel unsafe where they live, and they are afraid to use their neighborhoods. People are startled from going alone and using the amazingly beautiful areas they have in their neighbourhood. We can't have it that way. It's obvious that we need to focus on how to get rid of these challenges. At the same time, I want to turn around a little bit about the problem: what can be done so that the residents can help to take back the areas where they live? The centre party is committed to strengthening the neighbourhood police — it will prevent all crime in the area, including robbery and drug trafficking. Privatisation of security through private weighing instruments is wrong. This is the task of the police. Oslo's inner east is a popular area both to live and travel in. We have to look at measures that allow people to move in the neighborhood all day. The Central Party believes that mobile police posts in Oslo's inner east are a good solution. Police have to decide where to stand in the area and move them around where you think the need is greatest. Weekends and evenings should be given priority. Targeted actions over time are the solution, not individual actions. Combating violence is also a matter of creating attitudes, and attitudes are created while we are young. In the growing up of young people, we must dare to be clear how unacceptable it is to attack other people. This is highly challenging in the case of attackers, to which we refer in this case, who may have grown up in a completely different everyday life. But that crime can happen as openly as it is now, and that it can continue, doesn't make it easier to do mind-provoking work. In fact, adults applying for the drug purchase area also assume far greater responsibilities than their own drug use. They're role models. Oslo's inner east has a fantastic combination of being in the middle of the capital, having great living areas, an excellent outdoor life and café offer, an exciting cultural and industrial history and beautiful natural areas. It's totally unique. In the fall, me and the interpellant were both in New York. We were part of the UN delegation. The interpellant sail made me aware of something called The High Line Park in New York. I'll use that as a good example. A closed railway line that was due has now become one of the most exciting parking facilities in New York. The population has taken the area back again. The previously seen dark and abandoned railway stub is now a park with fantastic design, exciting lighting and not least a number of cultural offers. The parallel to the area along Akerselva, which is almost folklore in the evening, is obvious. The centre party is concerned that people should thrive and take responsibility for their communities. More police fix symptoms, but may not remove the whole problem. In addition, long-term action, new and exciting ideas and creative ideas are needed. Urban development must be focused. Bright, welcoming, creative and innovative environments provide housing and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1576	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for a good and important interpellation. That it comes from one of the government parties, I think describes a little how challenging and important the situation is. But I will also be allowed to praise the Ransoffer No. 351 in Greenland police district, in order to have stood up and in a way could be a good example of the situation. I want to start talking about prevention, because the best tool against crime is to prevent it from being committed. The Christian People's Party, therefore, deliberately commits itself to crime prevention measures in all its alternative budgets and policies. Cooperation between different sectors such as police, affected families, child protection, conflict councils, schools and municipalities: everything it says is central. A criminal career often begins in childhood and youth. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to provide good leisure opportunities for children and young people, and we want increased support for non-governmental organisations engaged in such work. Voluntary night-time outreach work in cities is important, for example: through the work of night nurseries. Visible police have a clear, preventive effect. We should therefore have sufficient police coverage to make the police visible both in the cities and in the districts. One of the challenges has been that police posts have been kept open when officials stop, because money has to be saved. There are still students who have not received a job. The Christian People's Party has prioritised the police in all its alternative budgets because we want more policemen and more visible police. Strengthening the basic staff of the Oslo Police is a prerequisite for maintaining the security of Oslo. The Christian People's Party wants the Oslo Police to have an acceptable response and process time, and like many others, we have faith in mobile police posts. Without adequate funding, the capacity of the Oslo Police to fight crime will gradually be weakened. Police must at all times have the means to enable the tasks to be resolved with the necessary degree of speed, precision and safety. After July 22, the crew in Oslo has increased considerably. Unfortunately, at least an equal proportion of the incoming crew has been locked to proceedings relating to the terrorist case. This has gone beyond treatment in moral matters and available ground crews. In most people — to use a popular term — there seems to be an increasing advocacy over the Norwegian judiciary, not least in relation to issues of rape. We just got numbers and statistics for 2011, where one sees that there were 1,022 rapes, and only 120 men were sent to the courts. There was a drop from the previous year, despite the number of rapes reported increased by 16.6 p.m. If you start from all the rapes that are believed to have been committed, there are 8 000 to 16,000 rapes. If a little over 1,000 people get reported, it's less than 10 pst. And if 120 ends up in the courts, it's about 10 pst. 10 pst. by those who are notified. How many of them finally end up with judgment, I don't know, but it's a serious concern. We also need a greater focus on the prevention of rape, so that more people are convicted, so that more people dare to report, and that one can see that rape is not a ‘safe’ crime, as many see it as it is today. The burden on the victim is great. Both during the investigation period and during the trial itself, they may be stuck with a feeling that the case is not being taken seriously enough, and that is a bad process. I see the time is running out. There are many points that should have been included in the debate, but I would like to make a few points that the Christian People's Party has repeatedly made various types of proposals, in particular a Document 8 proposal on safe cities. There we point out that giving time and control are an important element of this debate. The Christian People's Party has gained in the City Council of Oslo many important measures to gain better control of the donation. We didn't get there when it came to a reduction in shift time. But we ask for bags and bags and encourage the government parties to take a narrower stance on the tipping policy at national level. Then we've raised zero tolerance and quick fines on petty crime, because we think that if you take the little ones, you can prevent later crime. We have proposed more open and brighter cities, which could be measures that would work. Then I am very happy that more people have talked about drugs and drugs — and that more people are receiving treatment, being followed up and getting proper aftercare — are good measures. Finally, I want to say it's about caring. Each of us has a responsibility for our fellow human beings, and we can all do something when we see situations where action is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1600	Thank you very much for an important interpellation that concerns the area and part of the city that I go through every single day on my way to Stortinget. Fortunately, I have never been exposed to anything in the area. But there is no doubt that there is uncertainty that some of my friends have been subjected to either high-level attacks or have discovered people who are lurking in the bushes, and who look like people who can well commit rape. People can read in the paper that there has been an assault violence 30 minutes before they even passed the place. It's clear that all people who have been near, or experienced, a rane, are kind of sowing a seed inside that creates an insecurity that I think is hard to understand. Maybe they'll be able to understand how ransoffering number. 351 in Greenland police district, although the attack on him was in a separate division. I believe that fighting for the security of people in a city like Oslo is one of the most important things we can do. But I think it is important, as the previous representative – Ropstad – was about, to look at what we can do, what important steps we can take to combat crime. Then I would draw it up a little loud and say that in countries where the differences are small, there is less crime than in countries where the differences are large. Norway is one of the least criminal countries in the world. There's no doubt, when you look at the statistics, that we have very little differences, that contributes to just that. I remember on one occasion I asked Rolf B. Wegner – the time the police officer in Bergen: what is the most important thing you can do to combat crime? His answer was clear: good growing-up conditions for children and young people. It's undisputed among people in the police profession. I think that these two things are important to take with us when we're going to discuss how we can achieve a good policy for this capital – our city – in which we live, and have our work in every single day. This is also one of the cities in the country with the greatest differences. In addition, I believe that what we have to do is to use and prioritise the police resources that exist, in a good way. I always get a little worried when the police go out and say that they're going to have an extra bet on combating pocket thieves and some types of profit crime, as long as it's the way we feel that we might not have enough resources and enough force to fight violence and assault. My advice to the police and the Minister of Justice is perfectly clear: prioritize what people experience as the most serious violation of their own lives! I think the experience of assault, robbery and rape is in that category. This is where I believe the priority of the police must lie. Then I would like to recommend to the Minister of Justice not to receive a single advice from the representative Elizabeth Skogrand – advice on putting in a lot of police and judicial resources to court-martial and penalise people with drug abuse in the Norwegian prisons. It's going to be completely wrong for me. We need to use the resources and forces of the police for what are the important police tasks, and use the health care resources to provide proper services and social follow-up in housing policy and drug follow-up policy, in line with the Stoltenberg Committee – and Carl I. Hagen, as a member of the sample – recommended us, namely to ensure that we support drug users instead of filling Norwegian prisons with drug users. I would also say that one of the things that has made the strongest impression on me was sitting in a courtroom and listening to a human being who had been subjected to an armed robbery, telling you how strongly it was that the ransack later returned to the crime scene and apologized to the victims. I believe that using the conflict councils in matters involving violence is important in order to give people who have committed an assault or assault, an understanding of how serious it is for those who have been affected, while at the same time the victims must find peace and get some of the security back by meeting their attacker or assailant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1617	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing dramatic and important issues relating to the security of Oslo. It's an important task for us as regulators to create the highest possible level of security for the inhabitants. The stories reported in the media show that many raids and assaults are carried out with a crude brutality. Privates and their families are left as victims, with psychological stress that must be heavy to bear. The loads to which these individuals are subject cannot be tolerated. When we see that the vast majority of people happen in the capital, there is reason to call an alarm. I must admit that it is surprising to me that the situation has become so serious in Oslo. The whole country needs police resources. Nevertheless, we see that Oslo has special needs. Ransbowl we've seen in the city, given that in the media and in crime statistics, Oslo shows that there are specific challenges to violence and crime that are frightening. We see in the media examples of gross electoral rants, where ordinary people are threatened, frightened and degraded. This creates insecurity. We are forced to take action to take back the city and create security. Oslo as the capital is central to the whole country. Talking about the open street shows that Oslo has challenges that are different than finding anywhere else in Norway, nor in the other cities. So this is going to be our common challenges. Of course, we cannot guarantee ourselves against this crime. Even if each event is too much, we shouldn't be naive and think we can stop it in each context. But the presence of the police in the oslogatas must be increased. The police must have a capacity, especially in the evening, which makes the audience feel cared for. Furthermore, we see that crime is linked to a smaller environment that carries out a lot of crime. We also see the case of young people with foreign origins doing so. It may seem that inside the environment is a culture that makes selection and attack ‘infective’. We know this from other countries. It is therefore useful not only to think about police and punishment, but also about local community work, networking and integration. Here the municipality has a very important responsibility. Human beings must have something sensible to do, an honest way to spend their money. There are many social measures that should be targeted at these environments, and not least providing and requiring participation in work and activities that provide a meaningful everyday life. But at the same time, we have to deal with the situation that is precarious. People are exposed to power. It creates insecurity both for victims, for the population or for the environment. This is not acceptable. In the short term, we can hopefully get results by having extraordinary police efforts in the oslogata.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1634	Interpellant Haugli deserves recognition for putting on the agenda a topic that is difficult for the government he himself supports, difficult because fighting crime is an important area, since it is our basic experience of living in a safe or insecure society, and not least politically difficult because the government's results are discouraging. The statistics tell us that there is not only the number of cases — and not only in Oslo — but also the number of other crimes that are growing in size and not only in numbers but also in severity. The majority has previously dealt with an interpellation by the undersigned on the rape wave through 2011. The debate on the evolution of crime continues to show that there are no good answers from the Minister of Justice to why it is no longer possible to combat the most serious crimes known to society. Of course, it is generally acknowledged that a big city will have special problems only by its size. However, it is not acceptable that Oslo should be a less secure city than other cities in Scandinavia that are larger. No matter what level you've learned to live with, it's not acceptable that evolution doesn't go forward. I noticed in the Minister of Justice's first post that she said it is not so bad – that is to say implicitly – because the figures were about the same in 2001 as they are today. But the question is whether you have no direction to fight the problem, or whether you just ask the population to live with the level to which we have unfortunately become accustomed. I ask questions about the correct distribution of the police force between our 27 police districts. The presence of the police must be inserted into areas that are experiencedly vulnerable to crime and which have the concentration effect that the interpellant has perfectly described. It is a defeat for the rule of law when residents in some parts of the city have to organise their own civil protection in order to increase security, because the police are not visible or present. An internal police report by the Oslo Police Chamber, presented in the World Gang, also shows something as fundamental as the security plans are set up so that there are fewer police officers on watch in the evening and night on weekends, as most of the street crime unfolds. This does not apply only to the most serious offences. International experience has shown that when the police are interested in more trivial crime, when several crimes are prosecuted, cleared and corrected, the frequency of the more serious crime cases is also lower, both because it gives signals that the risk of detection is increasing and because a relatively limited proportion of the population is carrying out a large proportion of the crimes. This will mean that by taking more people at an earlier stage of a criminal career, they can precisely correct them at a level of seriousness that is less dramatic for the victims and for society. Then I also believe that we must dare to take a debate on the part of the crime caused by the free and unhindered entry of persons who have come to the country for no other purpose than to conduct the crime of profits – stealing, robbing or trafficking drugs. Of course, prevention and growth conditions will fall outside what can be affected by the Norwegian authorities. We must carry out a non-naïve control and a closeness check at our borders that must become more systematic than it is today. The Council of State was concerned that more and more resources were being deployed. That is certainly true, but the decisive thing is what results are achieved. Governments should ask themselves questions of the kind: Are resources used for primary police tasks or for administration? Is there anything that can be done to alleviate the administrative burden more and more? Is the Police Chamber in charge? Should there be consequences if a police district over several years has weaker development than can reasonably be expected? I would also be so bold as to suggest to the Minister of Justice to consider: a probationary system for a municipal police in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, a new statute for local police regulations that may allow local elected representatives to influence some of the priorities of their own city that such a law also provides a basis for the City Council to impose an absolute knife ban in defined centre areas and, finally, to strengthen the enforcement and prosecution of persons who possess illegal weapons and, where appropriate, to assess criminality;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1688	The debate on municipal police is also going to the Right National Assembly, so we'll have a good opportunity to discuss it there as well. It's an Oslo Right proposal that we're going to review in the Right as well, but the government would like to assess it at the same time. Being subjected to violence or rape is a huge burden on the person concerned, but the pressures it is for society afterwards to try to repair the people who are exposed to it are extreme. So every penny we can spend on caring or getting the police to prevent is an investment that's going to save society too much. 80 pst. For the reasons for this interpellation, I could have actually written myself, and I would like to praise the interpellant to describe a real situation in Oslo. I also fully agree that we should put party politics aside. We have a common political responsibility to re-establish the security that many do not feel. We have a common political responsibility, because if we do not succeed in this, I think this is an area where people will have increased political contempt. That's why it's important to underline what the interpellant did. But when the opposition criticises, it's not to criticize us, but because we haven't got any real answers or real numbers to deal with for years. After 22 July more openness and democracy were the review tone. But we're now experiencing the opposite from the opposition. We're trying to get real answers, including through Storting's own agencies and offices, but we feel that access to information is being strangled, and it's clear that it's a strategy that you need to know less about the real situation, but rather control it from above. The Minister of Justice has said earlier – and Haugli has also agreed – something that I fully agree with, namely that it is not just about more money for the police, but about spending the money as best as possible, and the police officers have to take responsibility. But as politicians, we have to make it possible for the police officers to have a framework of responsibility within. They don't. Unfortunately, it seems that there are only police officers who have a very short time left before they go off, who take the chance to say the same thing in the public room as they say in some other meetings. That's why we've been asking for a cross-political settlement over several years based on real net numbers, not press releases where everything is merged into one pot to give the impression that what's happening is a real growth, while we see a real decline. In all the police districts I've visited recently, they're notifying me of redundancies in 2012, not redundancies, as they said in a press release that was sent out last November. We've asked for our own ICT case for Stortinget. It's not to bother the government, it's to make sure that the police officers get the framework to take responsibility within. We have also proposed a strategy for improving and increasing the use of civil servants. But we're very positive from the Right that we now actually have a government council that seems to be more able to take reality into account, and not come up with lots of new promises and projects. I have to say that the representative Holmås really takes a little wrong when he criticises the police for not being able to make a priority. It's we in this room here who don't manage to prioritize what we think is most important, and what should not be prioritized. The priority signals followed by the police have been adopted by the Stortinget and passed on by the government and the Police Directorate. So we need to have a basic debate about what kind of police it is that we really want, what the police can do, and what the police can't do. Finally, I would like to mention a very specific case in parts of Oslo East that both the representative Haugli and I have been concerned about. There's something that's not the police -- it's the moral code. There has been very little in the media about it lately, but there is also part of this debate how young gay men with Muslim background experience extreme situations of violence and harassment and are refused to shop. There has been no debate on this at all after a brief media outgrowth, but it is part of the unsafe urban environment that makes more, with the undersigned, choose not to be in those urban areas at times of the day. So it shows up a lot to New York. New York is an amazing city, but those who are very busy in New York should probably also look at the policemen who have a completely different education -- they have some short course, some of them have to pay their own equipment. I guess that's not the kind of police training we want in Norway. Finally, I think that the representative of Skogrand is misunderstood. Her focus was reaction, and so is prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1709	Let me first thank the interpellant for the initiative. Oslo is my town. Oslo is the city of 500,000–600,000 other citizens. Oslo must be safe, it is a task that the government and Oslo's own politicians take and must take seriously. Security is a public task, it's been spelled out by the government in the Soria Moria statement. It has also been followed up by the government over the last six years by pouring resources into the police in general, but not least in the Oslo police department. In short, I can mention that just two years ago, we sent 460 civilian posts to the Oslo Police Department. We've increased the number of students from about 300 to up to 700. All of this also benefits Oslo. But we're not satisfied with the situation. That is why I think it is good that this debate should be raised again in the national Parliament. Crime is, as many people have come to it, a cost that must be borne primarily by those who are exposed to it, whether it is pure crime or violent crime or sexual crime. It may involve considerable costs for him, but then also something society has to pay, first by repairing the personal, human damage, but also through the police, the judiciary, criminal justice, etc. It's a problem that we have to take seriously. But it's a task that not only the Minister of Justice and not just the government are responsible for. It is also the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo. All municipalities are responsible for being a strong and active actor in the security of cities. For example, bulwark policies are: an important part, both to prevent crime, and also to save police resources that we can use just to prevent, but also to investigate, crime. I've never heard from Oslo's bourgeois government that they want to enter this debate, that they want to think that gift times can be reduced, for example. Tighten up by an hour on weekends, and see how many hours of police force we save. I want them to be part of this debate, that they come in with a positive attitude to it. So to the school policy, which my colleague Heikki Holmås was in. The most important thing we can do to prevent crime is to ensure that young people thrive in society, that they thrive in school, that they come out of school as good citizens, that they are positive citizens instead of having to claim in the criminal arena. I visited Bjerke secondary school and Hellerud secondary school the other day. I've had frank conversations with the principals there. What they say is worrying – to me, and it should be worrying for those who run Oslo, and have a responsibility there. It is said that very many students, a worrying number of students, in high school have gone through primary school without mastering the language well enough. They fall off the syllabus, they can't hang out and claim in school. This is a responsibility that the Municipality of Oslo has to take. Otherwise, the costs will be great – for these individuals, but also for society. Better collective provision can and should be part of the solution. What does Oslo municipality do to give a collective offer to Oslo citizens late at night and on weekends? It's an offer, but this offer needs to be reinforced all the way, so that people can go straight home, that they don't stay in the center unnecessarily, but get home safely. This is a responsibility that, in my view, both the government and all other actors in Oslo, especially Oslo's political leadership, must take.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1724	I think this has been a good debate, where we have mainly discussed concrete measures and the problem I think we are all concerned with solving. There have also been many good posts. The representative of Bøhler refers to good results in project work in the police, for example. mobile profit crime and recriminalism are examples of problems that have actually been solved through project work. I agree with his wish for a city-wide research project. The representatives of Skogrand and Tingelstad Wøien made very good contributions to the relationship between drug crime and other crime. It is both right and absolutely necessary to address underlying reasons, not just ask for more police. Without a drug market, we would have been spared problems such as: violence resulting in the wake of drug sales. I would also like to thank Mr Tingelstad Wøien for her commitment to urban development. A good and attractive city to live in makes people feel belonging and take responsibility. More police are absolutely crucial, but more police alone, increasingly more severe punishments and increasingly higher barrages provide neither a better city nor less crime. We have to get rid of the causes. The representative Holmås took up something important, and that is that the uncertainty in itself is a problem. It does something to people, and he's right about that. But then he also says that the attack on Sturla Nøstvik was in a completely 'own division'. Unfortunately, that's not right. Several of the 14 other insults in Nøstvik's criminal case have been subjected to even more serious violence. The representatives Tetzschner and Kielland Asmyhr believe the interpellation is a criticism of the government. The stable tests over a decade suggest that none of us should hit our chests and say that we've done enough. Not us, but not the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, which ran from 2001 to 2005, and which has run the city we are talking about now, since 1996. However, I am pleased that we agree that the crime of violence is a problem, and I think Tetzschner's input into changes in the laws on weapons and knife use is interesting. Finally, I would like to thank once again the Council of State for her clear signals and commitment and thank everyone who has participated in this constructive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1745	Once again, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important issue, and I note that there is a broad consensus on both the challenge and the diagnosis. Unfortunately, there are no simple measures and initiatives here that can change the situation. There is a targeted effort through enhanced police action, through cross-border cooperation and cooperation with the municipality, which applies. I therefore think it was very interesting to hear the comments from the representative Octay Dahl. It seemed like he had planned for me to make an article about the budget and the budget and the police high school and the number of students. I can live with the surprise that instead it has become a criminal policy debate and a debate on action that works. I also record that we need to work widely on the challenges, that we cannot look at research issues, violence issues, rape issues, drug problems and drug trafficking separately, but that we need to look at this in its entirety. The research team was established in Oslo, which I explained in my article. Cooperation was established across borders, and we need to have the goal of getting better and better at our actions. We have had an extra focus on the high number of criminals who have been represented in both drug trafficking and the number of drug traffickers. There is some background for us to focus on whether there is also a need for new action in this area. Among other things, we have also received replays from the assessed UDI. I registered that I was being challenged on the drugs policy. It is safe in a debate on such an important topic as this that we stand firmly together on the different parts, and that we also have a real look at this particular area when we are going to fight serious crime – it is blame, violence, rape or issues related to drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1758	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1772	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1788	National Cancer Plan 1999–2003 was adopted with a framework of 2 billion. kr. In May 2006, the Minister of Health, Brustad, presented a national cancer strategy for the period 2006-2009. It was extended in the 2010 state budget to expire in 2011. This means that now neither a national cancer plan nor a national cancer strategy is involved. The Cancer Association has been committed to the need for a new national long-term cancer plan. Already on 9 June 2009 the Kreftforeningen wrote a letter to the then Health Minister, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, stressing the need for a new plan. That letter was never answered. On 14 June 2010, the Cancer Association again wrote to the current Minister of Health that there was an urgent need for a new national cancer plan. It was not strange, since it one had, had already been degraded to a strategy and was extended, so that it actually worked overtime. The Cancer Association also has several occasions, including: in consultations within the Health and Care Committee, expressing the need for a new national cancer plan, and not least that the Cancer Association wishes to contribute to the development and implementation of such a plan. Why is there a need for a new national cancer plan? The last year has shown that this is an area where there is a very strong commitment, but where there are also many scattered suggestions – many reports that show good results, and many reports that show great shortcomings. There is a lack of an overall approach to cancer, which is one of our really major health challenges. Right-wing promotion in March 2010 of a comprehensive representative proposal, entitled ‘... enhanced response to cancer’. This proposal for a representative could be a good starting point for the development of a new national cancer plan, because it takes into account the whole spectrum that one has to work with in connection with such a plan. It starts, of course, with the need for prevention – prevention in the broad public health perspective. For example, one of the last days has heard that physical activity among 15-year-olds is on the level of 70-year-olds. It doesn't promise well. One also has alarming results related to the development of obesity — including diet. The more targeted prevention, for example: The discussion on HPV vaccines — the age groups to which it applies, whether it applies to boys and not just girls — is an important issue, which should be discussed in a broader context. In the past year, particular attention has been paid to the challenges Norway has faced in diagnosing cancer. In 2010, the Health Authority launched a report in which one had gone through many of the cases that had ended as cancer-related complaints and redress cases, in order to establish a picture of the risk situation related to Norwegian cancer treatment. It showed that in the case of diagnosis, there is a high risk of errors in the Norwegian health system, and there is also a high risk that the errors made lead to serious health problems — in the worst case, death. Norway has some offers related to it that might be called screening to detect cancer early, for example. through the mammography programme and through the pilot projects now being launched related to intestinal cancer. However, it is also important to have a discussion related to which strategies, which principles, should be used in the future with regard to the use of screening for early diagnosis. Diagnosis is also about the capacity of our healthcare system, both related to X-rays, laboratory activities, competence, the need for development and the training of more people who can work with diagnosis. One may not only adopt high policy objectives for good cancer treatment if one does not use the instruments at the same time and not least ensure that there are enough persons with the right skills. It is about organisation, and it is not least about the process – from the point of view of individuals to the symptoms to which we should pay particular attention, and when we should look up to determine the symptoms to which the decision-maker should respond. And not least, it's about the trajectory that happens in the health care system afterwards. There has been a lot of attention about the government's 20-day target. However, one of the challenges that has emerged is that our healthcare system is not prepared for a 20-day period, and thus a national cancer plan will also be able to demonstrate more fully the areas in which we have capacity shortages today, and – not least – where capacity shortages will be in the future in relation to population development. We have the discussion about new diagnostic and treatment equipment, e.g. related to PET Scan and PET/MR, which are currently applicable. In the area of treatment, there are exactly the same issues that arise: the possibility of treatment, the systems we need to implement new methods, such as: proton treatment, the quality of treatment, and the question of trial treatment. Fortunately, many patients find information about treatment methods used abroad, treatment methods that are new, and of course they want to use these methods in a fight for life. It's a great advantage if we have good public systems for experienced treatment, so people don't put houses and homes in pledges to try out treatments like that. has no effect. What is perhaps now a larger and more important area than when a previous plan and strategy were drawn up is the question of rehabilitation – the situation associated with many getting good treatment for cancer, many surviving cancer treatment, but they have nevertheless been through a life crisis that puts their mark on, in a situation where the environment may only expect one to be very happy and satisfied with that of a survivor, while one itself has great challenges associated with the stress of going through such a life crisis, both as a patient and as a relative, and especially related to children as a relative. These are only some of the areas to be covered by a national cancer plan, but in the view of the Right, there is no doubt at least that a new national cancer plan needs to be put in place. We have no cancer plan today, we have no cancer strategy today, and there is a need to approach this issue in a comprehensive and thorough way and not least involve the Cancer Association and the other volunteer organisations and professional communities working on these issues in the preparation of such a plan. I look forward to the response of the Council of State and the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1823	Good and equivalent cancer treatment is important. After all, cancer affects a lot of people. Nearly 30,000 people in Norway get the disease every year, and it is also a disease that is a great burden to those affected and to their relatives. New OECD figures show that Norway has very good results for cancer treatment, measured in five years of survival. For cervical cancer we are at the very top of the OECD, and for breast cancer we are best located in Europe. For intestinal cancer, we are also well above average. For all these cancers we are therefore also, naturally, best in Scandinavia. OECD figures show that we have improved significantly compared to 2009 figures. It is very positive that we have such good results. Nevertheless, we can become better, faster and more effective with investigation and treatment. It means a lot to a person's quality of life to get treatment as soon as possible. So we've set the goal of 80 pst. patients shall receive treatment within 20 working days, from referral received by the hospital. This goal is ambitious. But only in that way can we get better. We need to identify the bottlenecks and think again about how we set up the offer. National strategy for the field of cancer had a wide range of objectives and measures. Many of these still apply. In addition, we have developed new national objectives, and research has given us more knowledge. The government will continue to work to improve cancer care in all parts of the healthcare system, and I intend to launch a new national cancer strategy during the year. The aim of a new strategy will be to identify the direction forward for cancer work, so that we can meet the challenges in the field of cancer in a holistic and forward-looking way. Prevention was an important measure in the national cancer strategy. It is still important to pay attention to good prevention — which was also covered by the interpellant — in order to prevent and limit disease and injury. As is known, Norway also has a screening programme for breast cancer and cervical cancer. The effect of breast cancer screening is under evaluation, and we are constantly gaining new knowledge. There is therefore reason to continue to focus on this, and we need to use the new knowledge to adapt the offer. Cancer in the colon and rectum are the most common types of cancer for both sexes in Norway. About 3600 new cases are detected each year. Five years of survival is for approx. 60 pst. We've recently launched a pilot program to screen intestinal cancer. In the long term, this can save up to 300 lives every year. Studies may also prevent many cancer cases. The programme shall test two different screening methods. The method to be used for a national programme shall then be determined. 140,000 women and men from Eastfold municipalities and Asker, Bærum and Ringerijk are invited to participate in this project. As part of the national cancer strategy, national action programmes have been developed with guidelines for the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of different cancers. Eleven programs are finished, and they are updated regularly. Nine new action programmes are now under way. The action programmes shall ensure an equivalent quality of service throughout the country. This work shall continue. We need more research-based knowledge to decide what kind of action to take in the field of cancer. This applies to the whole process: prevention, diagnosis and treatment, and to further follow-up with rehabilitation and good care. A five-year national research programme for publicly initiated cancer clinical studies was therefore established in 2011. Norway also participates in several international projects. The aim is to find out why there is a difference in cancer survival between countries and to develop knowledge that can help increase survival. The International Cancer Benchmarking Project is such a project. Norway participates with, inter alia: United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark. The fact that more people get cancer also means that there are more people who cannot be cured. Some patients will need treatment for the rest of their lives to prevent cancer from spreading. Others will need relief at the end of their lives. It is important to develop the offer for these patient groups as well. Through the Interaction Reform, municipalities and hospitals can work together to improve the effectiveness of treatment in municipalities. It is necessary for doctors working with relief treatment to have formal competence in palliative medicine. We are now building up our competence in this area. The Health Directorate has launched a pilot scheme to approve doctors in the area of competence of palliative medicine. The aim is to provide a more coherent offer of national and better recruitment to the subject area. The pilot project shall be evaluated in 2014. In the autumn of 2011, I organized a wide-ranging conference where the theme was more rapid cancer treatment. One of the themes was how interaction between municipalities and hospitals can improve for people who have or have had cancer. I will follow up with a new conference during the spring. It shall deal with the good conduct and follow-up of people affected by cancer, with particular emphasis on interaction between permanent and hospitalisation. We're getting an ever-increasing knowledge of late effects. By following patients in a good manner, it is possible to limit late effects. Prevention and early diagnosis are important here. I want to use the recordings at the conference of spring as a basis for further work. Systematic work on quality and patient safety is central to the Interaction Reform. This year, we will present Norway’s first survey on quality and patient safety in the healthcare and dental care sectors. This Communication shall provide the basis for improving all aspects of healthcare in the years to come. National cancer strategy 2006–2011 has been a successful initiative. The content of the strategy is largely valid even after 2011. Through a wide range of measures, all cancer patients must be guaranteed equal treatment of good quality, irrespective of their country of residence. Many of the measures are in progress, and some I have mentioned here today. I have pointed out three areas where cancer treatment can be even better. We need to ensure better information and continuity in the investigation, facilitate faster diagnosis and, in particular, monitor complications and late effects that may occur in the course of the disease. Hospitals are working to improve these areas, including in cooperation with municipalities. Through a new national cancer strategy, the government will meet the challenges we face in the field of cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1859	I would like to start by saying that it is very positive that the Council of State announced that a new national cancer strategy will be presented as early as 2012. It is important, and it is true, even though it would be preferable for the Council of State to use the term ‘national cancer plan’ rather than ‘national cancer strategy’. In experience, there is a difference between the two concepts in the political world. It is that a cancer strategy is very much about direction and points to instruments, while a national cancer plan also contains commitments that need to be followed up in the annual budgets. But since we no longer have a current cancer strategy, I am positive that the Council of State says that a strategy will be put forward now in 2012. Then it is quite possible to work in parallel with drawing up a national cancer plan that can come into force at a later stage. Governments drew up the positive parts of the OECD report related to the results of Norwegian cancer treatment. That's the criterion for five years of survival. The second criterion used by the OECD, namely mortality, is a slightly more nuanced picture. If we look at cancer as a whole, Norway will have worse results than both Sweden, Finland and Iceland in the Nordic region. So here, the emphasis on performance criteria can be on how to interpret the result. An example of this would be that Norway will be very effective in breast cancer, as far as both criteria are concerned, but especially related to survival. This may include, inter alia: Because we have a mammography program that involves screening that allows you to detect cancer at a very early stage. Thus, a very large proportion of those present will be recorded in that part of the population that has breast cancer, and naturally also have five years of survival, while mortality could give a slightly different picture. This is the kind of situation that it is important to discuss in the context of a national cancer strategy. Then, of course, you will learn from the countries that are good, but you can also learn from those countries that have poor results and who have taken action to improve the results, and who may have found new ways of working. I am very pleased that the Council of State is expressing its desire to draw attention to the professional environment by organising its own conference related to the course, because that is a very important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1872	Numbers can always be problematized, I totally agree, but it must be allowed to rejoice that you are actually going up the list. From having mediocre results – with which no one was really satisfied in a health care system that spends so much public money on cancer, and on other parts of the health care system – it is good that we have come out better. Then there are different cancers in different countries. It's not that because you didn't have a strategy that lasted longer than in 2011, we don't know what to do in the cancer field, because we know that. This is particularly true in relation to the action programmes, in relation to the setting-up of lead-times, good treatment courses, good patient profiles. So when you get the brutal message that you have cancer, at least you have to have a predictable course. This is a very important goal that means a lot to patients, and where we see that we can get better, and where hospitals work actively to get better. So it's absolutely right that we want to involve all instances in the new work – of course, professional bodies, that's natural – but also for example. Cancer association, which is a driving force and does an important job in cancer. In its first post, the interpellant was involved in this with prevention. It is clear that there is a common responsibility that we have in society, how much of the prevention is taking place in sectors other than health. But in some areas, what we do – what we do in the law, what we do in our own legislation. This can be done, for example. on tobacco, which is factor No. 1 in the case of cancer in general. There is physical activity and obesity; we see that Norway — in a negative way — follows other countries that are worse than us or that have greater challenges. It is important that we do something about prevention, because we all want to live longer, have a good life, and if we are to cope without becoming a burden and a burden on the health care system, prevention is crucial. That is why we also have the Interaction Reform, which after all – even in its inception, with e.g.. the health profiles that municipalities have now received — give a good indication of where to start public health work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1883	I would like to start with a humble thank you to your President-in-Office, Andersen, for adequate assistance so that I am properly attracted to this debate. Cancer is a collective name of approx. 200 different cancers that all species differ. Cancer has many common features, but there is also a lot that separates them. This means that the pathology of cancers varies widely, depending on the type of cancer involved. Forecasts also vary greatly from person to person with the same cancer. As the Council of State was involved in its first post, about 30,000 new people are affected by cancer every year. The most common form of cancer among men, with about 4 300 cases per year – are prostate cancer. For women it is breast cancer, with approx. 2700 new cases per year. Cancer affects all age groups, but especially the elderly. Most of the Nordics who get cancer are over 50 years old. This group consists of more than 90 pst. More than half of the cases occur after the age of 70. For the interpretation of cancer rates, the development of cancer over several years should be considered. From the last five-year period, which runs until 2005, to the last period, until 2010, the incidence of cancer in Norway has increased by 7 pst. for men and by 3 pst. for women. Many cancers continue to die, and everyone knows about someone who has had cancer or cancer. This is also the reason why cancer is a major concern both in professional environments, in politics and in the media. The fact that you're going to get cancer yourself, or that someone close to you is going to get cancer, is something that worries a lot of people. That's why it's happy when we see a improvement in the statistics. This means that medical and technological developments, along with political priorities, lead many more than before to the survival of cancer, and many more than before to the rapid and good treatment that will restore you to health. This shows the OECD's October report last year, which measured five years of survival in breast cancer, cervical cancer and endometrial cancer. This report shows that in a few years, Norway has gone from mediocre survival results in these cancers to being at the top of survival. It shows first of all that a lot of good has been done. This is a good starting point for doing things even better because it provides a great deal of security that our health system can put new technologies and knowledge into practice effectively. And we're going to get better! As the Council of State said, in the coming days, we will continue to work to improve the care of cancer in all parts of the healthcare system. She will also launch a new national cancer plan during the year. Important elements to improve cancer treatment will be included in the new plan, but some of the elements may already be pointed out: more research-based knowledge of what to put in place, knowledge of why there is so much difference in cancer survival between countries, i.e. transfer of competences, better provision for good and relief treatment for those who cannot be saved, and working towards the goals set by the government for lead times, will obviously be some of the key elements. But the details about this are going to give us an opportunity to discuss when the new plan comes. There's one thing I want to address in this interpellation, and that's what we can do to help our people not feel unnecessary fear – of the disease, but also of our health care system. There is a lot of poor health in walking around being unnecessaryly afraid. What I am thinking first and foremost about is how we, as health politicians, can help nuance media storage. It has been a great store for the tabloids to play on fear for a long time. I believe that many of the essays you've seen in recent times, in essence, are only suitable for creating fear. I don't think we're going to push down phrases that have elements of a society-critical nature. But look-ups that lack both knowledge and information value should together try to contribute to making more knowledge-rich and with better information value. To give an example of what I mean, I can draw up TV 2's notice in the autumn about patients with prostate cancer, where it was produced as a breach of the passage times that you had set, when you did not receive treatment within deadlines. Here, for example, would be the case. a few details made the entries significantly better. First of all, prostate cancer was not part of the cancers that had been set up in the new eras. It was, as we know, lung cancer, colon cancer and breast cancer. Secondly, prostate cancer has several treatment options, such as surgery, hormonal therapy or radiation therapy. However, often the most medically wise approach is to wait and see, so that treatment is not initiated where the effects of the side effects and the disadvantages of treatment are greater than the health benefits of treatment. Of course, we know this in the Health Committee, but not TV 2 and not many in the population either. That knowledge could certainly have contributed to fewer people being rescued by those elements. I tried to give an interview, but unfortunately it was cut off. It is possible that opposition politicians tried the same thing, but it did not. There we have a job to do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1902	Thank you, Mr. Breen. His thanks shall be communicated to the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1905	Let me start briefly by thanking the interpellant for once again putting the cancer issue on the agenda. Cancer affects most families, and everyone knows someone, or has heard of someone, who has been subjected to too long waiting. Waiting times have consequences. Although good treatments are found and treated quickly, waiting time is before a diagnosis is made, a time that causes the disease to develop. There is today a long waiting time for radiological studies, and very many of those referred to such a study get cancer, although not the doctor who referred them, suspected it was cancer. They get reduced quality of life. Although we have good cancer survival, we should not forget that waiting times also lead to a lot of latecompressions that reduce quality of life and that are also precious to society. I don't want to say, like the Council of State, that these patients become a burden and a burden on the health care system, because the health care system is just for patients, no matter what happens to them, but it at least gives a very reduced quality of life for those who experience radiation damage or other damage as a result of having been treated too late. In recent years, the opposition has promoted a number of representative proposals to improve treatment for Norwegian cancer patients. Every proposal has been voted down by the government parties. Whether it's due to a lack of will or ability to improve the situation should be unsaid, or whether it's just an aversion to the opposition coming up with the proposal, don't know. But the patients are the ones who suffer, because it happens too little. Thus, despite ten different representative proposals to strengthen cancer care, this inter-pelling debate is necessary in order to give government parties and government councils yet another opportunity to give the Storting a positive signal that treatment provision should be strengthened and improved. The Advance Party shares the Right’s view of the need for a cancer plan where the entire treatment offer is seen together, but at the same time we call for more concrete action. The answer to tomorrow's cancer treatment lies in research, and therefore the Progress Party proposes to strengthen it every year. Norwegian research environment, for example at the Radium Hospital and Oslo Cancer Cluster, is a good research environment of international calibre, but we need to research more on cancer treatment and different cancer types. Furthermore, the course of treatment for cancer treatment is essential for the outcome. Too many wait too long, and – as I said – here the whole race must be included, also the time before the diagnosis is established. I am personally aware of cases where it took five months from the time he was at the hospital, until a diagnosis was made. It had serious consequences, even if he is alive today. The government's treatment guarantee has proved to be no guarantee at all. It's a little ambitious goal, I think. No timeframe has been established for when to be in place. I also think that only 80 pst. should be treated within the given time limit, is not ambitious. When we know that there are 30,000 new cases in the year, in other words, 6,000 of these will have to wait longer. There is no need for more waiting time than is needed to prepare the treatment to be administered. Every unnecessary waiting day is a great impression, both psychologically and otherwise – both for the family and for the person concerned. I think it's a little ambitious. Norway is well advanced in parts of cancer treatment, and this is good. But even if medical progress makes sure that more patients survive, we really don't have an idea of what damage they're living with. But there are also types of cancer, such as: prostate cancer, where we have a long way to go before we can say we're in the front. Several countries that have traditionally had weaker results in cancer treatment than Norway are working to find systems that provide rapid, effective and good treatment, and in Denmark they are now implementing a package in a number of cancers that lead to a decline in waiting time. Patients get faster diagnosis and treatment starts faster. This also increases the possibility that far more people can recover from their cancer. The government announces a strategy and a plan, but what we are calling for is action. Neither plans nor strategy – although of course you have to have both – will help, until there are proper measures that we can afford to put in place in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1924	Bent Höie has made a thorough presentation of the Right's proposal for a comprehensive plan for cancer care, so I'm not going to repeat it, I just want to elaborate on some areas. In several areas, treatment provision for Norwegian cancer patients is among the best in the world. However, with regard to the introduction of new medicinal products and treatments, Norway is lagging behind many European countries. Norway uses less of several types of cancer drugs than many countries in Europe. There is reason to consider new instruments to ensure that Norwegian patients are given better access to new treatment in line with medical developments. 65 pst. the cancer patients are alive five years after the diagnosis of cancer. Very many people need training and rehabilitation after demanding treatment, so that they can master both everyday life and work. It's not just about surviving, it's about living on. Good rehabilitation is essential for the quality of life of individuals, and it is a good social investment and will provide more opportunities for participation in the labour market and in society elsewhere. It is known to all that substantial failures have been documented in the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation in general, but also for cancer patients in particular. On several occasions in the United Kingdom, the right has proposed a stepping-up plan for rehabilitation, with earmarked means of strengthening supply in relation to capacity, quality, professional development and research. However, the proposals have been defeated by the government parties. Rehabilitation services for cancer patients must be part of the overall treatment and should be widely available in a new cancer plan. Every year about 130 children in Norway get cancer. Fortunately, we have developed good treatment arrangements for the children, where they receive treatment at the regional hospitals and are followed up at the local hospital or outpatient clinic near where they live. Most children survive cancer, but many suffer more or less serious injuries. We currently know too little about how many and the consequences, among other things. because little research has been carried out in this area, and because the damage only occurs after many years. This is an area where more research needs to be done. Every year, about 4,000 children and young parents or siblings experience a cancer diagnosis. About 15,000 children, often for several years, live in a family with a mother, father, or sibling who have a very serious illness — or they experience that a near person dies from cancer. They experience fear, anxiety, rest and great unrest. They also get their lives turned upside down. Then it's important that we see the children, see their reactions and needs. Children who are dependent must also become a theme in the new cancer plan. Parents with cancer are generally well cared for through follow-up, support and health care information. Children with cancer care do not receive the same follow-up. The Cancer Association receives feedback on the lack of routines in order to investigate whether the person who has been diagnosed with cancer has responsibility for care and how the children are cared for. Treating doctors and other health professionals feel very uncertain about what to communicate with children and how this should be implemented in practice. I think it's just an opportunity: communicating with the children needs to be integrated into the treatment system. Therefore, children as a patient of cancer care professionals should also be part of the cancer plan. I would like to hear what the Minister of Health thinks about it. This is about providing cancer with a guarantee that children will be cared for in such a serious situation. If we are to succeed in providing children and young people affected by cancer as relatives, the support and follow-up they need, multi-disciplinary cooperation and cooperation with volunteers are required, for example. through groups of the Cancer Association. Although much is good in Norwegian cancer treatment, we see that we are looking for important areas. So we can get better, as the Minister of Health also said. The key is to think in the long term and bring your efforts together in a comprehensive plan. The whole treatment chain must enter into a new cancer plan or strategy — at least it must be obligatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1943	First, I'd like to give tribute to the representative, Höie, for the interpellation. It's very good, very focused and very constructive. I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister, who responds in such a constructive way. The centre party does not want to create any new plan, as it is today. As a small greeting to the Progress Party, I would say that a strategy, to which it is now added, could contain a number of measures that are very practical. Instead of having ten individual proposals, it is much better to have a strategy that contains elements for action. Our main concern is that we have come into a situation where we are very good at treating cancer. We've become so good that we have to focus the search light at least as much on the other aspects of a holistic cancer care. First of all, we need to focus more on prevention. The good example is the President's smoking law, which I think the President got a lot of pes for once. It turns out later that even though the president was unpopular at the moment, the story shows that he's right. As politicians, we must dry to be unpopular in some of these measures. My great grief in working life now is that I cannot get Norwegian pregnant women to stop smoking. Had I made it – the last 10–15 pst. – we had increased the health quality of the unborn children even more than we have now. So we've talked a little bit about screening, where we're now proposing new measures. There are measures that really need to be carefully assessed before they are implemented. It's expensive, we can risk that there will be many false positives and false negatives, someone gets the wrong diagnosis, and someone doesn't get the diagnosis. What is coming must at least be thoroughly quality assurance. We have it on cervical cancer, we have it on mammography, and now we're trying it on colon cancer. It's very positive that we're trying, this has to be evaluated critically along the way. I don't want to go into the actual treatment, because there we are actually very far ahead. As far as research related to new drugs is concerned, we are at the top of the world. We try out what we see, but we have very thorough quality assurance before we put it into practice. What's most in my heart right now is the slow-tracked ones we have after treatment. In fact, there are so many people now getting fresh from cancer that we've made ourselves a societal challenge. I don't want to call it a social problem, because it's not a problem for us to save people. And we're not just saving people, we're saving families. The delay we can get, for example. of living with a stoma, living with a catheter, living with lymphoedema after cancer surgery, and not least the fatigue syndrome that follows a long-term cellular toxicity treatment, is very underestimated. When we're going to rehabilitate people, families, social life and work, we have a challenge. There are not as many people who have been through a long cell poison treatment, who do the same job as they did before they started the treatment. Here we have a big problem, which really goes far beyond the Ministry of Health. Here we need cooperation between different professional bodies. We need social services, we need not least Nav, we need close cooperation with the employers' side, so we can facilitate the good measures also for those who have undergone the hardest crisis of their lives. We need a cooperation here, between professionals. We have the side of medicine, the side of treatment, but above all, we also need to increase our skills on the prevention side. In the context of the Interaction Reform, we need to increase the competence of decision-makers when it comes to early treatment, early detection, but not least when it comes to being a resource for the individual and for the family when it comes to getting people back to social life and to working life. A big challenge is maybe also how we connect this to the Nav system. How can we get our systems to help the individual here? For all that we now, happily, are able to make healthy, we want back to a full life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1963	I also want to thank the interpellant Bent Höie for a good interpellation. I agree with all the proposals for the content of a new plan that he made. There is a need for a new national cancer plan that both reflects the policy of the government and is binding enough to be politically responsible for it afterwards. It will provide predictability, safety and security to patients and relatives who are often aware of the uncertainties of their own or their loved ones every day. We can discuss strategy or action plan, but for me it is actually that I agree with the inter-pellant that an action plan, at least traditionally, as we have perceived it, would be the best. An action plan drawn up in the ministries will often have a number of related actions. There will be deadlines set and there will also be those responsible for the implementation of the plan. Strategies that we have had, both the cancer strategy and the diabetes strategy, have been criticised for being overly committed in recent years, including from user organisations. So I'll now ask the Council of State to maybe think again. The most important thing may not be the name, but that there will be a binding follow-up to the new strategy or cancer plan to come. The government, too – I have to point it out – has recently been somewhat unclear to cancer patients. Then I think of the treatment guarantee, which is now a goal, which the government joined in the election campaign. There has been an uncertainty among many cancer patients today. Personally, I get a lot of requests from cancer patients about how this should now be interpreted, what rights they actually have. Then, of course, the opposition parties have also made a good deal of suggestions in Stortinget in recent years, I would say, also in the last. We also have things to deal with today. Among other things, we have proposed a binding guarantee of cancer, which has been difficult to get the government parties involved. We can measure, we can control and follow up, but it is now that if a patient feels that she or he does not have a real right to treatment, or that the hospital does not have a real obligation to offer it, unless the reference point is a rights-based treatment period that is held, then measurements and reports are useless. I agree with the Council of State that it is very good. We actually have very good professionals today. I also want to point out an area in which I think we are far ahead. They're cancer nurses in the municipalities. It should have been much more widespread. It's a fantastic arrangement. It provides an incredible security that I hope we can get into a new cancer plan/cancer strategy. This I think is important. Governments were involved in many research areas. I am very concerned about research and believe that it is incredibly good, what the government has started in this field, so I want to pay tribute to it. One area where the interpellant was not in, but which I want to raise, is that we read some concerns about the huge investment needs we have in the specialist health service. We have equipment that breaks down, systems that don't talk to each other, poor building mass – of course not everywhere, but too many places. Some hospitals are now almost dependent on private contributors in order to access all the equipment they need. This also becomes unpredictable. I hope this will be part of a new plan/strategy. Numbers and statistics are important and can be read in different ways. I think it's absolutely necessary that we look at the positive and take credit for it, but we also have to go into what is negative, or that doesn't work. We know, and this debate has also shown that we have a lot left. That is positive, and I also thank the Council of State for giving us a new strategy or plan. So I just want to refer to the many proposals that are from the opposition parties, and I hope to get into what is going to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e1986	Thank you to the interpellant who is raising this important debate. In Norway today, many are still diagnosed with cancer. Even if we're good at both diagnosis and treatment, and much more survive, there are still many who get this diagnosis, and at least as many who don't get the treatment they're entitled to in the acceptable time. Of course, we should brag about what we have – it's important. Many people get treated, they get healthy, and they have a good health experience, and we're not going to forget that. I want to tell two stories that I've been away from, and I think it's important to include them in my brain when it comes to cancer. Anna is 40 years old and in full employment. She goes to her doctor because she finds a ball in her chest and is shown further in the system. Time goes by, and she is finally, after several reminders, called in for hospital examination. Then it had been five weeks since she had been at the firm. It went on in cell poison, surgery and radiation. In addition, when complications occurred, there was a different treatment in the system. This took on, not only physically, but also mentally – not only for Anna, but also for her family. Then there was a waiting time for breast reconstruction – a new waiting time. Anna has now come to the conclusion that the sick pay from Nav has been reduced to 66 pst, and she has switched to redundancy money. It's actually the health service that's a great help in putting Anna in this situation. She is in one way receiving an extra diagnosis of economic concern, which has been added by the Norwegian Health Service, in fact with the support of the governing government. I didn't like this. I actually thought it was unworthy. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal for an extended medical report for this group, as we cannot sit still and see that the government imposes such unworthy extra impacts on individuals. Kristian is another patient who wanted prostate cancer. Looks like he moved on, and the time passed. Kristian is a small man and calmed himself that it is probably common with such a long wait. Finally, the doctor called for a new call. They couldn't find the assignment to Kristian, he had to be reintroduced, and then it had already been six weeks since he was with his settler. Time ticks on for him too. The time from first referral to final treatment was over 20 months — too long. I could have continued with such stories – stories about people who are sick with cancer, where waiting time is life and death. It doesn't make any sense in good words that we've treated so many more, and that so many survive cancer, even if this is good. Yet this is not good enough. In addition to Anna and Kristian, there are several who are, or will be, in such difficult situations – situations such as the system, organisation and not least the right priority of the governing bodies. For the Progress Party, such simple stories – or a single story – are enough that we don't want to expose people to that kind of thing. One doesn't do a good enough job when it comes to fighting cancer, tell these stories. That's why there's still a big job to do. The Progress Party supports enhanced efforts against forces where action force must be target and not just plans. Of course, I support the Council of State that they want to put forward a strategy, but I am looking for action. In Soria Moria it's so nice that «regional undertakings undertake measures to reduce waiting times for treatment and diagnostics». In addition, it is equally nice: ‘In the event of a disease, people shall experience an offer of treatment and care with a short waiting period and with the greatest possible proximity to the user.’ The fact that it says in Soria Moria, does little to help when the treatment in question is absent from many. What does the Council of State actually put in the context of short wait? Now it was called 80 pst. the population should receive treatment within 20 days, but the remaining 20 are equally important. I could have thought of getting a proper answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2018	I would like to thank you for a good and committed debate, which shows that there is cross-political support for the development of a new cancer strategy, which, as it is also clear, is necessary. Such a strategy could contain a lot, but I would like to highlight in particular what several others have been faced with, namely the need to look at and know more about transit times, the need to look at the capacity situation now, but not least in relation to the forecasts we have in the future relating to the increase in the number of cancer cases, so that it does not come as a surprise to us. One thing is the purchase of equipment – medical devices, etc. - You can always get hold of it. Another thing is the need for skills and training of professionals – it takes time. If you want to reach, for example: the right-wing objective, to introduce a 48-hour deadline, as one has in Denmark, will also require a thorough discussion on the need for capacity expansion. This has led to the need for prevention and rehabilitation, which is an area that has not received enough attention. So it's like one of the risk areas that the Health Inspectorate drew out, and that's not much talk about, is actually the risk of over-treatment and mistreatment. In particular, over-treatment is an area in which more attention needs to be paid. There are also diagnostic devices, e.g. PET, an important tool to prevent over-treatment of people who either will not enjoy the treatment or where the treatment will have failed. Treatment in the field of cancer is very often also very stressful, and therefore treatment is not always the best option. Then a number of opposition proposals have been made in the field of cancer in recent years. I just want to encourage the Council of State to find out all these suggestions and pick and steal as much as she wants from all the good suggestions that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2027	Thank you for that. With that call, the word goes to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2030	It's not often you're encouraged from the Greatness Chair to steal as much as you like! But we're going to use all the good input, because there's not always so many different variants of doing things in a good way. I will try to answer something. Whether it's a strategy or a plan -- the most important thing is actually that we do something concrete, and that hospitals set up the treatment so that you get a good patient history, a good patient experience, and that they treat patients as quickly as possible. Then it was Vigdis Giltun's representative who once again referred to Denmark. Then I have to refer to the conference we had here this fall, where the representative from Denmark actually said: we just have to say that we do not have as good results as Norway. We can't achieve such good results, even on the run, on what we measured last year. Then, of course, we mean that we should be able to get better. It's not like the last 20 percent are not included when we say that for 80 pst. treatment should be initiated after 20 days, because for some patients the study is so much more extensive. It's actually important in relation to what Bent Höie said in his last post, that sometimes you can get into a situation where you overtreat. And if you get as serious a disease as cancer is, at least you have to know that you have an overview of the extent and know how to treat it. But – then it should also be stated in the journal that such an assessment has been made. It's also part of the work. To the representative, Sjøli, I would like to say that it is generally the case in Norway that when we introduce new methods, they should be safe and tested. Nevertheless, we are committed to contributing and participating in clinical studies, and have also taken the initiative of Nordic cooperation in this area. In the case of children as a relative, a change in law was made as from 1 January last year. It is important that children are seen and heard, given proper information and taken care of when one of their parents, siblings or other loved ones is ill. This is something that is strongly on the part of hospitals. There are also self-employed nurses, at least in several hospitals, who have this as a special area. I very much agree with the representative, Odland, who talked about getting the systems to help the individual. Yeah, that's exactly what it's all about, succeeding with it. Now I can't answer any more, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2049	There will be new occasions!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2052	Yes, it does, and I'll promise that we'll do everything we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2057	Thank you for that! So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2065	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting over today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2106	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 14 February 2012 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2114	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Thorsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Svein Harberg on behalf of Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the repeal of Section 33 of the Church Act and other rules necessary for the removal of the obligation to reside and reside in the territory of the clergy. No new contract of employment relating to the place of residence of a pastor is implemented.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2146	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with church organisations, is asking the government to initiate a process to wind up all or part of today’s system of housing for spiritual officials, and to promote a case for the Storting with a new system and the necessary legislative changes resulting therefrom.’ The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2163	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2171	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-16.ana.ud2416e2229	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
