ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e51	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Torgeir Micasen on parental leave from 3 December to 24 March from the representative of Dagfinn Højbräten on leave from 3 December to 7 December in order to take part in meetings of Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania as Chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the County of Buskerud: Kjell Børre Hansen 4 December-22. March For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen 3 December–7. December
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e103	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e112	The majority adopted the new Culture Act in June 2007. The aim of the law was to strengthen cultural activities as a natural part of society. In my view, the Culture Act has not fully met this objective. The Culture Act is a very concise and general law, which expresses public authorities' responsibility for cultural activities in Norway. There is no evidence of how municipalities or county municipalities relate to this law and the relationship between this law and other laws in this field. I would like to stress the fundamental view of the Advance Party that the State should be a promoter of cultural life. This means that the public should not impose requirements on the content of art, which is a very important point in the culture of Norway. So a law of artistic freedom must be the way to go. It may also be necessary to ensure the artistic freedom of the art institutions and artists. In Norway we have freedom of expression, and I assume that this must also apply to art. The government must in its red-green eagerness be aware of the fact that it is not the government's task to provide guidelines for the art of what is to be created artistically, nor about what is good and bad art. Driving art can be a risk sport. Both art and art education are at stake when art is created, and sometimes this game is motivated by strong desire to change the existing in a more political direction, which I think is regrettable. I note that this can happen in a rude, disrespectful and reckless way. But somewhere the frontier has to go, and there, as politicians, we have to take responsibility and say that we don't want to rule. This side of freedom of expression and artistic freedom must be made clear. I have often marveled at the cultural coverage of Norwegian media. I have the impression that the reports on cultural policy are largely about money – and more money – not about the challenges and problems of continuing government leadership, or about the lack of private resources in culture, or about the independence of culture. It's been almost absent. It must be obvious that the State does not intervene and regulate, for example. which plays should be set up, and it may be problematic when the State establishes a number of project funds related to concrete policy issues, which are found, for example, in the letter of award of the theatre in Sogn and Fjordane.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The cultural sector will play an important role in marking and celebrating the 200th anniversary of the Norwegian Constitution in 2014. The Ministry of Culture’s grant recipients are expected to start planning projects and events related to the anniversary.’;» So it's very clear in the letter of assignment what's expected. Where, then, is the artistic freedom? This is close to coercion against the institutions, and it is very unfortunate that the government is providing such concrete leadership for the art institutions. Visual arts artists should also be rewarded. We have experienced it as a challenge that they are not rewarded when they are to have exhibitions in museums and showrooms. They should be paid for what they do. It is common practice also for decoration missions, and it should also be within the performing arts field. I want to promote the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e134	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e137	The document 8 from the left travels two themes. One is the cultural law, the coordination of the cultural laws we have, and the extent to which we need a more detailed cultural law than what we have today. The second is the question of legislating the principle of arm's length – to what extent politicians are to govern cultural life. I just have to admit that it's not the first time we're discussing these two questions in this room, and the issue of arm's length is being discussed in almost every cultural debate we have in this room. Let me first take the cultural law. It was adopted in 2007, and the red-green government was very clear at the time, it was supposed to be an overall cultural law. It was a clear signal to our municipalities and county councils that culture is a priority task in Norwegian society, but we were also equally clear that we do not want to go into detail and control the economic priorities of the municipalities. We are afraid that if we regulate the cultural law in detail and impose further detailed management of cultural life on the municipalities, we are actually depoliticizing cultural life – yes, I will go so far as to say that we dedemocraticize it, because when we depolitize it, we leave to lawyers to decide whether a municipality has complied with the cultural law or not. When I say that we de-democraticize it, I actually believe that when people in the municipalities go to elections, they should be able to choose between political parties. They shall be able to choose between, for example: The Workers' Party – which has a very good cultural policy and which wants to prioritise it in the municipalities – and the Progress Party, which does not want to bet on culture in the municipalities. Then people have made a choice. So to the issue of arm's length distance, which is also not a whole new debate. To me, that debate in this Chamber is often very academic. It actually flies very often a little over my head. I think that's because it's used as an argument from the opposition because they have no alternative to today's cultural policy, except that they actually have less money than the government parties have. Then they have to try to create an ideological distance from today's government. But there are very few examples of the ideological distance, and we should be very happy about that, not least cultural life. This is primarily about economics. What is the significance of artistic expression? What is the most important thing about free cultural life? Well, it's to realize your dreams, get the ideas developed and show it to an audience. What is it that you're dependent on then? Well, you're dependent on getting resources. When we have a government that has increased the Ministry of Culture budget from 5 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr, there are quite a number of dreams, ideas and visions that cultural life has, that have been realized. When you start accusing this government of going into and governing cultural life, I'm going to answer that the worst way cultural life can think of being governed and not having its ideas realized is actually not getting money at all and getting dramatic cuts. Then there's at least a discussion about arm's length distance. I feel that discussion comes every time the creep is empty. Then we will have a discussion about the degree of priority to be given, and whether politicians should take the lead. So to the last discussion about the nation building and the theatres, which this year in the governance dialogue with the ministry has been recommended to mark the anniversary of the Constitution. It should only be lacking that the national institutions that were built during the construction of the nation, which was an important part of the new nation of Norway, when we are about to mark the anniversary of the Constitution, should also be part of it. Then I have to say that the presidency in Stortinget has also been very 'on high' in relation to the Constitutional Marking, and has been very clear that the Constitutional Jubilee is also to be marked by our cultural life. So at least in the presidency, I interpret it as, there has been quite a large majority in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e150	I don't know if 'on the high' is a good parliamentary expression, but in any case the President likes it as a description of the way the presidency works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e153	Art and culture have a self-esteem. Public cultural efforts shall contribute to a diverse and qualitatively good supply that strengthens both professional and voluntary cultural life. Cultural policy shall not be an instrument for achieving policy objectives in different societal fields. This is a fundamental and fundamental principle of the Christian People's Party's cultural policy. We therefore agree with the intentions of the proposers, as expressed in proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Christian People's Party shares the concern about the impact of the red-green policy on the freedom of institutions and artists. At the time of adoption of the Culture Act in 2007, it was intended to be a general law to underline the responsibility of public authorities to facilitate cultural activities. It has been considered that the law should be simple without detailed guidance on the level, priorities or organisation of the cultural area of the country, the counties and municipalities. The Christian People's Party proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. We believe that there are other instruments than the Culture Act that should be used to ensure artistic freedom. First of all, public authorities have a basic understanding of which lines of division should be between politics, state, art and culture. That understanding cannot be adopted, it must be recognised. With regard to the first proposal, the proposal for supplementary legislative wording and the concreteisation of state cultural obligations, the Christian People's Party is concerned that such a measure may be counterproductive. A concreteisation of state commitments can quickly end with an even greater level of detailed regulation, although I do not believe that this is the intention of the proposers. Nor can I see that it is a major problem that legislative regulations relating to cultural life exist in different sectoral areas of legislation. It will be very difficult to define which legislative areas are relevant to cultural policy and which will be simplified and brought together through clarification. Cultural life is cross-sectoral and dynamic. A collection of legislation in this area is not necessarily unambiguously positive, nor simply in terms of boundaries. However, the concerns of the proposers are important to take with them. The discussion that is being drawn up is important, especially as regards proposal No. 1 on artistic freedom, and that debate must always be kept alive regardless of who is in government at all times. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e172	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e175	I think it can often happen that committees suffer from the fact that the Left does not participate in the Committee’s proceedings – as is the case here. I think the Committee had benefited from the Left's participation in this process, for the Workers' Party refers in its main argument against the proposal almost not at all, but has a main argument against the Progress Party in cultural policy in general. The proposal goes on two points. The first is a recognition that we have passed a cultural law that, in all modesty on behalf of this magnificence, has not mattered. It is a moral indicator or a political indicator that culture is also important, but in practice it has not mattered. We actually admitted when we dealt with the law, that this was just a symbol act. In practice, no one can bring legal proceedings on the basis of this law. So Left sat down and asked: what is the main challenge in cultural life that it is important to legislate? Well, one of the main challenges is artistic freedom. Suffering about the Workers' Party claims that there isn't, there isn't, there isn't, there are still artists who say that the artistic freedom is pressured. This would have been interesting to have legalized, so that it is possible for an artist to actually beat a paragraph in the table. Then we have a bunch of little cultural laws around. The left generally believes that we should have had a clean-up in Norwegian law. There is no goal that the red book next to the president should be as large as possible. The aim is to be easily accessible, to be understood and to be able to use it. We will have laws that can be used by Norwegian citizens and be able to understand Norwegian citizens. We have some cultural laws in this field, for example. a library law. I think we should have a museum law. We should have a definition of what a museum is, and what professional requirements it is to be allowed to call a museum, in the same way that we have some legislation relating to archives. All of these are cultural laws. Why is it not cleared up in the red book in the field of culture, so that we get a common cultural law that has the definition of archives, museums, libraries – all the cultural institutions – and the professional requirements that we have today spread beyond everything in the law? I think it would have been easier, I think it would have been easier to be a local politician if one knew what a national framework you have set, and what a space you have within the framework. I also think that it would have given some signals about the importance of the cultural field to bring everything together in a common law. It would have given meaning to a cultural law if we had collected a library, an archive and a museum in one cultural law – and perhaps also had looked into whether there were other parts of Norwegian legislation that should have been there – that had also been defined in the field of culture, and that could have legislated the artistic freedom in one. It's a piece of legislation that doesn't count for a big group to do, but that's what a government council is supposed to do, so this was meant to be a kind call to a process that could have been involved and changed it. I notice that this argument has not at all reached the committee. I do not know if the proposal has even been read, but at least there are no arguments against this which have been put forward in this debate. But the left is in the process. We want to ensure the greatest possible majority of what we do, so if not exactly what we have originally proposed is in the proposal, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and 2 which have been promoted in the case. Then we hope that once we get so close to a larger piece of legislation that we get cleaned up throughout the cultural sector, that we take a clean-up in relation to the cultural laws and decide on what national requirements to have for the power of definition, and what things should be subject to local priorities and local definitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e192	Representatives Tenden and Skei Grande present two proposals in their document. The first proposal is almost identical to the proposal put forward by the representative Skei Grande when the Culture Act was adopted in the Stortinget in June 2007. In this sense, the proposal is an invitation to change the culture law. The proposers believe that the Culture Act should include other laws relevant to the field of culture, and that the Culture Act should at the same time describe in detail and concretely what obligations the State should have towards the field of culture. In our written note, in the form of a letter, to the proposal, we see no real need to initiate any legislative work in order to bring existing laws and regulations into line with a cultural law. In addition, the cultural areas outlined in the proposal are too different. This year, five years have passed since the Act on Culture came into force. We know that the law is used as a reference point in the annual budget discussions in municipalities and county municipalities. The proposal presents a table showing the proportion of net operating expenditure of the cultural sector as a result of the total expenditure of the municipalities. For many years, the relative proportion of doctors has been between 4.2 and 4.4 pst. of the total expenditure. In 2011, the relative portion went down from 4.4 pst. to 3.9 pst. In the proposal for a representative, this is used as an indication of the wrong approach to municipal action in the field of culture, and that cultural law has thus had no effect. But sometimes it's true to go behind numbers on a table. From 2010 to 2011, the eartags of the kindergartens were transferred to the municipal framework. This meant that the total net operating expenditure in the municipalities increased by 28 billion. kr. Thus, the relative share of cultural expenditure went down, just as the relative share of expenditure for the other sectors of the municipalities went down. From 2007 to 2011, public financial efforts for cultural actions have increased strongly in nominal krona at all levels of management. In the municipalities, there's an increase of over 2 billion. kr, or about 30 pst. and in the counties is the increase of 30 pst. I do not mention these numbers to claim that the increase is a result of the Cultural Act – economic growth is a result of a political will to invest in cultural action. The speech shows how the legal responsibility of the Culture Act is managed and concretely explained by the conscious economic priorities of politicians at both state, county and municipal level. My assessment is that the cultural law stands out well as he is formulated, as a confirmation of public responsibility. A deliberate policy and priority is the best way to live up to the responsibilities of the Culture Act. In proposal No 2 the representatives Skei Grande and Tenden want the cultural law to be supplemented by wording that underlines the artistic freedom that artists and cultural institutions must have. Here, proposal providers are supported by the Progress Party and the Right. Let me make it clear that the discussion of artistic freedom is very important. But I feel that the proposal rests in a statement that, through annual letters of indulgence and allocation, the ministry provides cultural policy leaders for the activities of institutions in a way that broke with the principle of arm's length distance between politics, management and cultural freedom. In order to substantiate the claim that the Ministry intervened too much in the concrete activities of the institutions, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have a note in the setting quoting from the letter of award to Sogn and Fjordane Theatre on the Constitutional Marking in 2014. But the usage of the quotation is a little special, because the quotation ends in the middle of a sentence without indicating that it's just an extract of the phrase that's there. Thus, an important clarification does not include, that the project and arrangement associated with the constitutional marking should be in line with the profile of the institution. Nor does the quotation take into account the fact that the letter of award refers to the Storting's main committee for the anniversary of the Constitution, which in its own target document formulates clear expectations as to what the field of art and culture will do in the year of the selection. What the Ministry has done is to clarify what the Grand Duchy's main committee for the Constitutional Jubilee has expressed. As I see it, there is no need to make own legislative formulas to underline the asserted principle of arm's length distance between politics, management and cultural life, but the discussion of artistic freedom is very important. It's also important to me, and I would like to work continuously for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e213	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e217	The anniversary of the Constitution in 2014 is important for Norway as a whole. It's a nation-building anniversary, and I'm sure the whole country will participate in it. But it's not just the Progress Party that responds to the fact that it can seem like you don't have freedom of speech or freedom within culture, and that you feel it's a coercion. It also does the culture, based on the feedback we've received. It is strange that they also ask for the law of culture to be strengthened right at this point, that one must think about freedom and freedom of expression. I wish the council had looked a little bit at how the municipalities and county councils interpreted this law, and how it turns out in the municipalities. I have a question for the Council of State: what does the Council of State say to cultural institutions and those who are active in the culture around the country, when they feel overwhelmed by this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e224	I think the discussion of artistic freedom is very important. He is even more important when a person puts it into practice and links it either to letters of credit or to phrases that are critical to him. I'd like to welcome that discussion, whether it's the Progress Party that's taking part in it, the Left, or the Cultural Institutions themselves. It is clear to me that our government is pursuing an active cultural policy, but it does not mean that a set of limits to artistic freedom. What we do is to give leadership, to define the social mission that the institutions have, but the institutions themselves are very much free to define how they want to solve their societal mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e231	I could have said something about that when you're making suggestions here, it's not necessarily because you're criticizing the government, but because you actually have an intention to change something. So I think maybe the Council of State could relate a little bit more to the proposal and not necessarily to the comments of the Progress Party on that. I would like to ask about the subject to the Council of State, because I was informed by a party trap on the way down that the Council of State has completed the law studies, and this is how it should also have some thoughts about the law. Yesterday, I was at a big law congress in Oslo where the Culture Act was mentioned as one of the worst examples of the state, this hall, using law when we should have actually used completely different instruments, and that we are creating a law that had never stood in a courtroom. I wonder if the council has any thoughts about it. Do we make here laws that are really just symbols, and that never stand in a legal context?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e238	Thank you for an important fundamental discussion. I think that this law marks the cultural field as a policy area where public governance has a legal responsibility. This means that cultural life is defined as a policy field in line with other policy areas. The law also establishes the basis for supervision, which the county councillors must have with the municipalities. However, I feel that in the proposal from the proposers, there is a need for the cultural law to have more detailed formulations on the level, priorities and organisation of the licence. The first two think I'm going to be at a level of detail that overly directs culture and culture as a policy area. I think it's right that priorities and level of approval are primarily the subject of political discussion. When it comes to the piece of organisation, one can always discuss how much should be in law or in the form of regulations and how much should be the subject of political discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e249	That is not the intention of this proposal. I believe that the level of appropriations is decided when we adopt a budget. We do not adopt a level of appropriations when we adopt laws. Promise, we're using completely different things. What we think, is that one should take the definitions from the library law, one should take definitions in terms of archives and in terms of museums into a law, and then we should let the level of appropriations be part of the budgetary procedure. But we also think it would have been in place to ensure the artistic freedom by law. So here it's based on a complete misunderstanding. I don't think we're going to adopt the level of funding by law. I wonder if there are anyone who can sue anyone on the basis of the cultural law we have? Does the lawyer inside the Minister of Culture have any opinion on how such a case would happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e258	The President believes that we should allow the Council of State to respond as a Council of State – not as a newly educated lawyer. We can ask for another way. But the Council of State Tajik is sure to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e263	The desire to clarify the permissions is well mentioned in the preambles to the proposal. That is also why I am critical of the level of detail I find the proposal put forward by the proposer. When it comes to the second part of the reasoning of the representative, Skei Grande, who is committed to organising the laws in the field of culture together, so that it is in a law, it is my opinion that the legal areas outlined in the preambles to the proposal are so different that they do not want to do so in the same law. I also feel that the representative Skei Grande agrees, because it is clear from the premise in the proposal that one sees that these laws that have been enacted are very different – covering very different areas – and will not act in the same law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e270	Then I try for the third time, and now I'm going to be ready: is it possible for anyone to use the cultural law we have, in a lawsuit in Norway, if anyone doesn't keep it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e275	If the rule for all the laws we pass in this room is that one should be able to take them to court and have a legal case based on the laws, I think there are a lot of laws that are passed here in this room – including with the voice of the representative Skei Grande – that will not be used that way. The function of some promises is, as I have said, to signal that one has a legal responsibility – that the municipalities and county councils have the legal responsibility – to preserve cultural life, and that cultural life is raised as a policy area in line with other policies. The law lays the basis for supervision, which will be important for cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e296	The background to this interpellation is that the Norwegian community needs far more engineers than is available. The lack of engineering in Norway is precarious, and it is reasonable and good that the Y-road study for education has been established. Experience from professional practices often leads to the best engineers for those taking that course of study. There is a great need for key competences in several different sectors of work, including in the health sector, where we need far more health workers. We need many more teachers in both primary and secondary vocational schools. In order to address the gap in these professions, the government has taken action and implemented several measures. Following the good experience of Y-road training for engineers, this has also become an offer in the field of health education. The lack of engineering in the business community and the municipality of Norway is becoming a major brake pad in solving both day-to-day and long-term tasks. Y-road training does not count in Coordinated Recording, nor is there any direct government funding for the study. Institutions therefore need to reduce in other places of study in order to finance this offer. As a result, other important places of study needed by society need to be reduced. There is a large unused potential for more people to take part in engineering training, but funding must follow. Several institutions in the UH sector are currently providing education. It is also in line with the mission that the institutes have been given by the Law of Higher Education, which states that they are responsible for: ‘dissemination of knowledge of activities and dissemination of understanding and application of scientific methods and results, both in public administration, culture and business.’ By virtue of the UH Act, institutions have received an order in the form of sectoral targets to be met by the sector as a whole. Schools include: the two sectoral objectives: to provide education in line with society’s needs and to have effective management in line with our societal role. New from 2012 is the fact that institutions themselves have to set their own activity targets in the light of sectoral objectives and that they have to decide for themselves which strategic instruments they believe need to be used. The current Minister of Knowledge Tora Aasland said in his speech to the Contact Conference for the Higher Education Sector in Oslo on 17 January 2012 under the heading «Modernisation of Universities and Higher Education»: ‘Modernisation means a better understanding of society, a better response to society’s needs, but also a better understanding of what academic institutions do. That's why I've been putting a lot of emphasis on the role of society in the last few years. The goal is education and research that develops people and brings society forward. Then we must have universities and colleges that are in line with their time, and preferably in front of them." Several schools have met this and, among other things, set out the following activity objectives: they shall have a timely training offer, train candidates attractive to the modern labour market, be a driver of regional development through social contacts and their social contract. As an instrument, good professional processes have been set up to ensure that they translate society’s needs into relevant studies, research and development projects and dissemination activities. I believe that this clearly shows that the schools take their social responsibility seriously. Research projects such as BIs A knowledge-based Norway, led by Torger Reve, show that jobs are largely created in already existing enterprises, regardless of which region they belong to or whether they are central or peripheral. In knowledge-based societies, where education, working life and authorities have committed cooperation, innovation and innovation are stimulated. The question then arises how authorities actively use the allocation of study places to boost innovation in regions, and does not allow lack of formal competence to stop industry from growing and new jobs. Using regional higher education institutions and universities to contribute to flexible education needed by industry contributes to high value-creating living regions. A local college will be able to organise for professionals who are already in work. This is a worker who does not normally resign from the job for higher education, but who will consider taking higher education at the workplace in order to facilitate the need for formal qualifications. In answer to my questions, the Minister of Knowledge points out that HSH allocated 132 new study places during the period 2009–2015. The answer to this question is that most of these are actually earmarked sites that require, in part, that they provide free places of study themselves in order to have a sustainable coal, at the expense of e.g.: teachers and nurses or HMS engineers. The UH sector wants to take its social responsibility seriously through the development of a social contract in which their contribution will be education itself, training in bilateral cooperation and interaction with regional employment, which will increase the value of both students, us and the labour market. R & D activities building up the professional areas of activity that are important for the region as well as providing knowledge development in a lifelong perspective need to be strengthened. This is best done if the Bachelor's degree is given locally and in accordance with the free principles of the UH Act, in particular for those who wish to take higher education at a later stage in life and under organisational principles other than those given in the ordinary studies. This also provides opportunities for the growth and development of educational institutions and for greater flexibility for knowledge-seekers. Today's system does not allow the UH sector to complete the mission imposed on them by the government. I'm very excited about what the answer to the Council of State is going to be. Is she going to use the great potential of diety adults who want to take an engineering training course through the Y-way, when there is so much need for that competence? That's the one. Does she also know that she wants to make the study a full - fledged, ordinary study of her own?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e340	I thank you for this opportunity to take the ball in terms of how we can strengthen the Y-way, and I fully agree with the inter-pellant that the way that universities and colleges can cooperate with the regions on nutrition development is very important. It concerns research, but it is not least by being in contact with them in view of what kind of education is of interest, also locally. Technology is essential for value creation and welfare development in Norway. This applies in both the private and public sectors. It is gratifying that Norway is in a situation where business demands skilled labour. It is therefore a major challenge that not enough engineers are trained to meet the needs of society. We still see a very positive development. The number of newly trained technologists in 2011 was the highest in ten years. There were more than 3,800 technologists and a total of 6,000 candidates in real science and technology. First choice applicants through Coordinated admission to engineering and civil engineering training have increased by 55 pst. since 2005. From 2011 to 2012, the increase in applicant figures was a total of 20 pst. These figures do not include the local applicant figures covering the Y-way. A total of 4350 new engineering students in 2012, including local admissions to the Y-road, showed an increase of a total of 600 from 2011. This corresponds to a growth of approx. 16 pst. In order to seize this opportunity, the government has in recent years allocated new places of study for multi-disciplinary technology and real-life studies. By 2016, the overall impact of the allocations will be 4400 additional study places in the field of technology and real life. This positive growth over many years shows that we have succeeded in facilitating recruitment and quality in technology and real life. Through the «Real sciences for the future» strategy, we have achieved constructive cooperation between industry and universities and higher education institutions. Through deliberate research efforts, we have gained new knowledge of what contributes to young people applying for real science and technology. The Ministry of Knowledge National Resource Centre for Real Science Recruitment, RENATE, implements targeted actions through the ENT3R and the ALFA role model agency. In addition, of course, the many positive media reviews on job prospects for engineers also contribute to increased search. The government will continue to cooperate with industry in order to improve recruitment to engineering training. A major challenge is that for few students to choose real-life higher education. In order to improve the recruitment basis, engineering training has a long tradition of offering alternative admission routes or advanced courses. The three-semester scheme implies that applicants with general study competence can be admitted without satisfying the special recording requirements of mathematics and physics. In addition, more students are gradually taken up through the Y-way. These are applicants without general study competence, but with relevant professional letters and practices. These are among our best engineering students, and very many universities have succeeded in providing them with a good offer. Both the three-semester scheme and the Y-way are recorded locally at universities and colleges. In the local admissions, the same person may be counted several times if he has applied for more than one institution. The number of applicants from local recordings does not come from the results of the Coordinated Recording, which will be presented in April and July. However, the capacity for engineering training, which includes the Y-route and the three-semester scheme, is generated by the entry and candidate figures recorded in the Right Education Database, DBH, in the autumn. When the Department allocates new places of study to engineering training, it is used, inter alia, to: taking into account the number of qualified first-choice applicants of institutions per study place through Coordination. Since local admission figures are not available at the same time, the Ministry also takes into account admission and candidate figures. In addition, it is assessed whether institutions actually have the capacity to increase capacity in different areas of education. Institutions have previously, on the basis of regional demand for engineers, often offered the Y-route to exploit available capacity and increase the number of finished candidates. It has therefore been less relevant to include the Y-road on the basis of which to assess the need for new study places, given the availability of open capacity. However, the Y-route now accounts for so much of the admission to engineering training that I would like to include this in the assessment when awarding new places of study. So in the future, I want to take into account both the search through Coordinated Recording and those who apply locally when assigning study places to different institutions. It should be an important response to the interpellant’s intention. In 2012, nine of the fifteen institutions offering engineering training have admission via the Y-road. Seven of these nine were awarded new study places in technology in the revised national budget this year. The institutions in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger have so far chosen not to offer the Y-road. These are institutions that have had sufficient qualified applicants and waiting lists. The representative of Thorsen is wrong when she says that there is no government funding for the Y-way. The state finances the Y-road in line with other education services. What's been the challenge is to get an overview of how many students are currently taking up the Y way, since this is local recording. I have addressed that in my answer that we should change. The Y-way provides the same counting in the funding system as other engineering training. Each institution must itself assess the number of places of study allocated to engineering training to be adapted to applicants admitted via the Y-route. In recent years, the Ministry has asked institutions to give priority to increasing the capacity of vocational training courses that are particularly needed in society. Since 2009, the Ministry has allocated more than 7 000 strategic study places to the institutions. This is in addition to the study places allocated by the Ministry to priority areas of education, such as technology, teacher training and health. Institutions shall allocate themselves the strategic study places at the professional level, in line with their own strategy, the application basis, and on the basis of an assessment of regional and national needs, such as: the need for more engineers. The number collected by the National Council for Technological Education suggests that the institutions together have allocated more than 400 study places to the Y-route. This shows that institutions are gradually building up an offer of engineering training through the Y-way. Such a prioritisation of technological training places is in line with the Ministry’s steering signal and the needs of society — and certainly with both central and local needs. Welfare development and competitiveness in business and society require high technological workforces. Therefore, out-of-work engineers must have sound professional knowledge, change skills and willingness to meet and solve new challenges. I will continue to cooperate closely with business and society and to enhance the quality and recruitment of engineering training. The Ministry will therefore also consider an increase in study capacity in engineering training in future budgetary proceedings. This will also apply to increased recording via the Y path.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e382	First, I want to thank you for the answer, which I think is quite positive. I think that was very good, and I also understand that we agree on the major challenges facing the public and private sectors because there are too few engineers. I also very much appreciate and appreciate that we also have the same understanding of Y-way-trained adult engineers, that they actually have the highest status because they have as good a professional background as they do, because they have a degree in the subject in which they take education as an engineer. The fact that the Council of State now shows the willingness to look at the matter and consider getting more in the Y-way is very good for Norway as a nation. I also know that society in the future needs higher education among people. Although the proportion of higher education has increased in the population, continuing to increase specialisation of tasks in enterprises, both public and private, will maintain the need for higher education. In fact, even in the engineering studies today, fewer training is required to maintain the population, according to the SSB economic analysis 3/2012. In addition, skills-intensive professions are increasing in the future. It is difficult to estimate the need for engineers, although the figure has varied some in recent times, from 8 000 to up to 15 000 to 17 000. In any case, it is difficult to estimate, but there is no doubt that there is a need for that competence in the future. With the background of this, I don't think I have anything to add yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e397	I would like to stress that we need both young people and adults with diplomas and more in professional, engineering and other training. But it is when we are able to find the good balance that we also lay the basis for a good development of business. It's because the Y path has a slightly special story that it's grown up this way. It was the institutions themselves that, in their time, lacked applicants for engineering training, and that had seen the availability of the capacity to start straight on an engineering training course with professional letters within certain disciplines in order to exploit their own capacity, but of course also to train more engineers. Thus, the situation is slightly different as the application for engineering training has changed, and most institutions have probably applicants with normal study skills that they can take up in the ordinary engineering studies. At that time, the initiative is not necessarily such that the institutions themselves start new Y-way studies, and they may be in a situation where they have both applicants for Y-way and applicants with general study competence. Since we don't initially see how many people have applied through the Y-way, it's a challenge, and that's what I have to admit, because that's what will solve the problems – or the challenges – we've had in this area. For the future, we will ensure that we also have an overview of how many have applied for the Y-way study at the institutions when distributing study places, because then we will be able to take this into account. Then these places of study are funded in the same way as all other places of study. This is probably a sign that the world is changing, and the challenges are changing a little bit. It is very gratifying that so many more now choose engineering training. It's been a huge increase, as I've been told – 55 pst. increasing from 2005 in the field of engineering and civil engineering training is fantastic. The estimates to the Statistical Centre on how many engineers we are going to be lacking for the future are also strongly adjusted, including: in the light of the positive applicant’s development. We need young people who take their professional letters, and we need those who have relevant professional letters to go on a Y-way to get engineering education, to offer it, and to be able to dimension it in such a way that we meet the needs of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e410	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. I'm also glad that we get the opportunity to discuss this. The representative Thorsen says that Y-way engineers often become the best engineers, and I fully agree with that. We also hear that very often when the committees or party groups are out visiting local businesses and local educational institutions. Among other things, I have heard Gunvor Ulstein in Ulstein Group say that she does not want engineers who have not seen a boat. By that she believes that people need practical background in order to really benefit from their theory. At Kongsberg they told us that – not to belittle the common engineers, as they called it – they like best those who have a letter at the bottom. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has also been negative in this room when the undersigned has previously mentioned that we should do so that one has the faculty of study to be able to go further on the lines that you want. We often know that people want to move on in the profession they have. That's why I think it's strange that you should leave so much power to the individual educational institution, and not leave more to each one to decide which direction you want to go. The Council of State also confirms that this is an offer that has grown up due to a lack in some places, not necessarily because it seems to have been right and important to make these lines. I think it's right and important to make these lines, and that's why I also want us to make it easier for young people who have a letter, to move on – to recognise the skills they have. I thought it was interesting when the Workers' Party's fraction in the Education Committee was visiting the Kongsberg Group. Then we heard about those who go on with a professional letter right to the vocational school – a shorter education than the engineering education. At Kongsberg they said that they with vocational education go straight into positions next to the engineers. For me, this means that the business community recognises the competence of a professional letter and theoretical education, while with the same education – a vocational letter and a vocational school education – it would be difficult to enter a bachelor’s degree in the same subjects in some places, unless you were at a university or a university that had specifically facilitated it. I think the Y-way is good. I think it's a good measure, but it can never be anything but a special solution for special lines, for special letters. I want to force universities and colleges to think new and different, and I think they're going to have to do that if we give young people with diplomas the same chance to go further than those who take specialization in studies. I also believe that it will contribute to increasing the attractiveness of a professional letter, and I think it will make more people want to take a professional letter that does not take a professional letter today. I think we'll send a clear message to the young people who take a letter, that the skills they get through school and business education are really worth as much as the three years that others spend on study specialization. Then it also becomes more motivating. We know that there are strong counter-powers against this, not only with regard to the proposal that I am talking about now, but also with regard to the Y-road in general – we saw that when we got the big news about the welfare state's professions. There are strong counter-forces to try out the Y-way for the health profession, and there are strong counter-forces to try out the Y-way for children and youth workers. Here, there is a need for change of mind and a lot of work, but we politicians also need to be brave and change laws and regulations, so that we can push on not to lose the best students because they're locked in a system where they don't move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e425	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising two important issues for us in the Chamber. One is that there is a need for far more engineers than we have available today. The second is the Y way as an important way. We often talk about the lack of engineers, and several of us are around visiting both business clusters and educational institutions. And it's true, as the Council of State says, that it's no longer the lack of students as it was – it changes the situation – but also the industries state their needs. In the South we have a strong cluster like NCE NODE, which, of course, because they are linked to the oil and gas industry, has a great need for engineers. They are quite clear that we are not able to deliver enough engineers in the years to come. They have to go abroad and get skills, and they don't want that. Therefore, it is important to continue to focus on the need for more and more places in the engineering studies. As others have pointed out, it's not just the industries that we first think about in terms of lack of engineers, it's also a lot of related areas. We have an exciting development in e.g. the energy sector, which needs engineers, and not least municipal administration, has faced major challenges in providing engineers with the work to be done. There are always new areas that need engineering skills. That's why our education needs to be dimensioned in relation to it, and it's going to be exciting to follow on. It's also exciting to see if we can stimulate even more students to choose these areas. There I fully agree with the Council of State that it is necessary to start earlier in the education cycle — in high school and in high school — to make the choices relevant to further education. I'd also like to say a little bit about the Y path and the arrangement for it. I mentioned the NODE cluster, which needs a lot of newly added engineers. The biggest challenge they have is how to retrain the employees who need to update, who need to build up, who need an engineering profession at the top of their professional skills. A cluster like the NODE cluster has its success precisely because of what many people have talked about here, that there are people who take care of things, develop them further, and find new, good solutions – it's valuable competence. But here there are many people who need to build up and want to build up. It's fantastic with the shelf that the Y-way has got here today, and so many people talk so well about it – it must have a follow-up. I think it is important that the previous speaker also pointed out that, as a political environment, we are clear that this is a way we should have, and that this is a good way. We have to up-prioritise the organization of the Y-route, and I agree that it should be done in several areas. I understand that there is a challenge in taking into account those entering the Y-way, in the dimensioning of the study places. It's great that the Council of State says that this should be taken into account, because that's what's the challenge here, not the funding itself, but to figure out how many it is natural to get in that way, so that places of study are increased and you can catch them. That's very good. It is also the case that in a situation where these figures may not be accurately known, the reduced scope for action of educational institutions is also a challenge, but if they are addressed, it will probably give a little more freedom and flexibility in terms of these places. I have to say I was pleased with the answer from the Council of State, which promised to take an active stand on these things. I think that we should be able to work together to get more places to study in engineering, and that we should clearly grasp the Y path as a natural and important way of continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e438	Just a little reflection initially: I think it says a lot about what part of the world and Europe we live in when we can discuss the lack of engineers, i.e. a demand in both the public and private sectors for a workforce we do not currently cover. I think that's a completely different reality than the one you're going to experience in Europe, where unemployment has stuck to a rather high level. Despite the lack of many of the engineers that industry is asking for, I would like to stress what the Minister of Knowledge said in his speech. There have not been so many technologists in over ten years as today. More than 3,800 technologists and a total of 6,000 real science and technology candidates – not including the Y-road seekers. Since the centre party and the red-green government took over, the search for engineering and civil engineering training has increased by 55 pst. Only the last year there was an increase of 20 pst. I think these are important numbers that we're going to take with us. It should also be said that the government has contributed to such a high level of demand for this type of competence. As an example of this, I would like to draw up the Government's proposal for the National Transport Plan from 2009. It announced a major expansion on both road and rail. Now the government has shown that it actually grants the funds to do, and implements the projects it says it should. This means that there has been a significant increase in the need for both planning and development skills also in the transport sector. Government policy also means something to other sectors. I want to bring forward the energy sector. It is not only the oil and gas sector and a large supplier industry that need engineers, but the government’s organisation for more renewable energy has led to increased demand for engineers. This increase in the need for people to plan and e.g. leading construction work may be described as growth in public bureaucracy, or some parties like to call ‘faceless bureaucrats’. Among these, we also find engineers, who need both the private and the public sectors. I'm taking this illustration to show that the 'faceless' are people with both the face and the brain, of which we need more. Therefore, the government has just prioritised the real subjects for the award of study places, which the Minister of Knowledge has been involved in. It's also been quite right to facilitate the Y path. The experience of taking in students who have gone their way from a few years of practical work to higher education is very good, as the interpellant and several have pointed out. I have been visiting more than one place where it has been said that the best engineers are the ones who have studied after they have gained practical experience with a letter before the university study. In particular, I've met the statements several times when I've talked to people who build roads. The centre party thinks it's great that the education system thus opens the door to further studies for people with practical experience who want more education. We are therefore pleased that there have been particularly high schools outside the big cities that have offered this type of educational pathway, with good results. Providing this type of training locally is important for districts and to increase the level of competence across the country. I think it might also have been an advantage if several of the institutions in the big cities had used some of their study places for Y-way students. I think it would create a slightly different learning environment, which could be positive for these institutions. The answer given by the Council of State suggests that it too can become a reality. I think it would in many cases be enriching for the student environment to have students with a professional and professional background, who can relate theoretical content to practical reality. I think the whole interpellation is an expression of what the Centre Party has long claimed: there is a great need for better flexibility in our education system. I also think there is another very important point of this debate, and that is that it itself can help to show that it is actually possible to become an engineer, sail if you have chosen a different education first – even if you have chosen a profession. It is also something that parents, not least, should become more aware of when they are to be advisers to their hopeful ones. There are always possibilities for those who want to. There are many roads to Rome.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e464	For some reason I came to think of Alf Prøysen during this debate today. He had the ability to take the spirit of time and describe both our everyday life and our everyday heroes. It's not to hide: the engineers have always been our everyday heroes. Think of becoming an engineer – it was amazing. Difor has always been high in courses among us, both Alf Pröysen and Gjøvik technical colleges. It was almost as big to go to Gjøvik and become an engineer as to be able to go to Bergen, the capital of the West. There's all reason why there should still be equal stanchions, if not necessarily to go to Gjøvik, so at least to be able to become an engineer. Our engineers are the backbone of our working life for many parts of our country. Norway has, to a large extent, a business life based on many of our amazing natural resources. Real science and technology therefore provide much of the basis for our creation and well-being. This knowledge creates jobs and makes an important contribution to our health and well-being. This also gives our engineering training a great deal of political prominence, and that is what the debate is about today. It delights me to hear the Halvorsen Council's figures on the positive developments before the education of new engineers. For many years society has contributed to less focus on real science and engineering. Unfortunately, that has not been our first choice for our students. But this is what the government has got into, and we're happy about it. There will now be work on target awareness and in line with the real science strategy, and my impression from the Western world – developments are beginning to be felt there – is that the trend is turning around. This is now being confirmed by the Council of State, and that is unlikely to be good. The number of emerging technologists is the highest in ten years. The number of first-choice applicants for engineering and civil engineering training through Coordinated Recording has increased by 55 pst. since 2005. Without any reduction for the theme of the next month, I will claim that a better Christmas potion to us really professionally interested people can hardly think of. This is followed up by the government with the award of 4 400 new study places in technology and real life before the end of 2016. This positive growth over many years shows that we have been closed down by facilitating recruitment and quality in technology and real life. I would like to point out that it is important to ensure the quality and to increase the level of implementation of three-year engineering training. In the fall, a new framework plan and new national guidelines are being implemented in engineering training. This means, of course, substantial changes at individual educational institutions, with new curricula, alternative teaching methods and more cooperation across different disciplines and between educational institutions. Furthermore, the framework plan says something about the focus on increased contact with work and internationalisation. The framework plan opens to provide 10 study points of practice in the enterprise. It is in line with the professionally strong contribution of the representative Truls Wickholm. It goes without saying that all engineering training should have such an offer for their students, but this requires mandatory cooperation between educational institutions and the labour and business sectors. Today, there is a strong focus on engineering education that is geared towards our offshore industries, and that is good. There are great possibilities here in the future, and it is exciting profession. But I also want to pay tribute to the Council of State to listen to and capture regional initiatives from the business community when it comes to creating new study places for engineering training. Now we see that there is a need to focus on, among other things. the electrical engineering training that has been provided by others. The production and knowledge of renewable energy is a focus of Norway. Only in my country have I registered approx. 1 800 new small power plants, which are at the planning stage. Not everyone gets realized, of course, but it says a little bit about the volume. The clear feedback I get is that there is a clear need for more electric engineers, and I am sure that the Department and the Council of State will capture this need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e487	First, I would like to thank you for a constructive and good debate. The councils also show that she has the will to take hold, and I think that is positive. But it's actually still so that we can't blow up the engineering shortage. It's still there, even though we've expressed what we've expressed here today. Still, many of those with a letter want to take the Y-route, and the institutions want to take them in, but it is not possible to undermine the fact that the lack of study places and infrastructure in technology-building is a major obstacle to institutions being able to attract more students. I have not seen any increase in the state budget for new places of study. It's not a good signal. The appropriations for 2012 will only be prolonged. Now we also have to be careful that we don't drive from ditch to ditch, rather than stay in the middle of the road. Now we have to make sure that the ordinary engineering studies don't get zero out for the Y way. It is best to have a stable framework, and then it is best – according to the view of the Progress Party – to establish the Y-way as an ordinary, searchable study, and that it is allocated its own resources, so that it does not go at the expense of young people who prefer to use the ordinary studies. Otherwise, I would like to thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e502	I've grown up with engineers and teachers on all sides, and I think that at least the engineering part of my adult adults would become white in the eyes of this shelf that has come to the engineering professions. I'm replacing it, and I'm very concerned that we're able to ensure good competence in these fields in the future. We have some challenges considering that within the engineering studies it may be a bit fashionable which areas have the greatest appeal, but it has to be the next challenge. I also fully agree that we should not pretend that we are in the target of recruiting for the real subjects and the engineering professions, but it is very important that we show that we are on the right track, because it in itself helps to create a positive attitude and recruit for exciting future professionals. When we have as great numbers as 55 pst. Increases in applicants with engineering and civil engineering studies at the first elections in 2005, it is a very spore, because we see that other young people also notice this, and then attract more qualified students. I think I was in the vicinity of getting boasted from the opposition, and it's so rare that I think I'm taking very good care of it – I'm going to love it all weekend. It is a great strength that we have a unanimous growth behind this strategy. I also think it's very happy that there are so many people who are concerned about the Y way, and that we're going to get to it. This is going to be a very important debate in the context of the big news that the Committee is going to be discussing in this House. How do we ensure that we have opportunities to move on from a letter to higher education in such a way that the content of the studies is also good and of high quality? There, the Y-way in engineering training has been a preparatory training, but the initiative has now come from local teams. We are going to start with trials in the same area of nursing education, but there are several important and fundamental debates here: on the one hand, we can continue as we are now; and on the other, we can take up to the Y-way through the Coordination Recording – it is a discussion – or, as the representative Truls Wickholm is in it, give general study competence to all those who have completed advanced education. It is the most extreme proposal, but a proposal it is important to discuss. We brought 1,000 new study places into the revised national budget – a very large number of them in the field of engineering. It's my impression that the institutions have now agreed that it was important then to get it to sit down a little bit before going on with new places of study, but we have a readiness to do this all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e516	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e530	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Mr Rudihagen, who is making his speech to the representative of Mr Sund, who is really the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e541	In the absence – as the President was in the Chamber – of case-speakers, I will say a few words about the setting we now have to deal with. There will be proposals for representatives to get their own biggest message on hydropower. We in the same committee have a proposal for an energy message under consideration. An energy message also has to say a lot about water power, so I thought it was something ambitious and unnecessary to ask for both an energy message and a water power message. We have a good basis for discussing both water power and energy issues with the information that is in the budget and in individual matters – a discussion we also have at regular intervals here in the house. Norway is an energy nation, not only through oil and gas, but also through our large hydropower resources. That's why I agree with the proposers that it's important that we have an commitment to hydropower issues. Water power has made it possible to build a world-class industry in Norway. She makes sure that we have stable, affordable and climate-friendly currents here in the country. Through the hydropower, we have ensured that Norway has one of the world's highest – if not the highest – share of renewable energy. The Labour Party will ensure that we continue to develop the water force in Norway. We are in a period of major investments in new renewable energy. As part of this, much is invested in both smaller and slightly larger hydropower plants. For us, industrial and industrial policies are closely linked to energy policy. The government's energy policy has been broadly anchored by a series of large-scale messages in recent years. Especially important are the climate message, the online message and the petroleum message. I would also like to refer to the good review of Norwegian energy policy in the Ministry of Oil and Energy of its State budget. Here, the results of the Energy Selection will be examined in a good way. I have noted that in our committee we have dealt with a virtually identical proposal from the same proposers during this large-scale period. That proposal was not adopted, and the Committee's plurality insists that the proposal under consideration should not be adopted either. Otherwise, I thought the Council of State said it well in its letter to the Committee: ‘The government is central to facilitating a significant increase in our renewable energy production. Sustainable use of water resources is an important element of this effort.’ Under this government, we have invested heavily in the development of renewable energy. For example, in the period 2006–2011, new water and wind power plants with an annual production capacity of about 5.3 TWh have been set up. NVE’s concession treatment capacity is double from 2005. From 2006 to 2011, a final permit has been granted for 550 hydroelectric power projects, which will deliver annual production of around 4.8 TWh, final concession to 23 hydroelectric power projects, which will deliver annual production of around 3.7 TWh, and concession to 136 district heating projects, with expected production of over 4 TWh. We are working with Sweden on green certificates, which are expected to trigger 26.3 TWh new renewable energy. The majority are of the opinion that Norwegian energy policy is well described in the budget and in several major messages and strategies, and therefore the majority do not end up in the wish for a new global report on hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e561	The use of hydropower was the germ and the driving force behind the industrial revolution in Norway. Large industrial enterprises such as Hydro, Borregaard, Electrochemical and many more can be mentioned. Foreign enterprises invested in Norwegian hydropower and many industrial jobs were created. The production of cheap electricity was a major factor in the increased prosperity we gained in our country, especially in the first half of the twentieth century. The Progress Party wants to raise a debate on Norwegian hydropower. Thanks to technology-neutral electricity certificates, the use of hydropower is likely to be the best renewable effort, both cost-effectively and environmentally. In Norway, there is a large unused hydropower potential: old works can be upgraded, and several large, medium and small hydropower plants can be a good energy and environmental policy in the context of an environmentally adapted development. Representatives of the Progress Party have repeatedly put forward proposals in Stortinget to ensure greater development of profitable and environmentally-friendly hydropower projects. It is difficult to understand that the government does not have a greater desire to exploit the potential that still exists in the area of hydropower in Norway, as hydropower is totally free of CO2. The government is responsible for not building more large hydropower plants. Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in his New Year's speech in 2000 that the time for the major hydropower projects is over. This is clearly also today the government's pronounced policy on hydropower. The Progress Party is supported by professionals, the LO and the NHO, current and former politicians and others that we should look at the current watercourses that are protected. Consideration should be given to the possibility of increasing environmentally friendly hydropower generation in protected watercourses where it does not damage public interest or significantly affect biodiversity. With current technology, much of the protected watercourses can be used for power generation without risk to the environment. The Progress Party believes that the government must now draw up a communication on Norwegian hydropower policy. The notification must contain assessments of the potential for new hydropower deployment. Furthermore, it is necessary to assess the extra power that will be available for upgrading and extension of existing installations. In Norway, by 2020, 13.2 TWh may be built by the Electricity Certificate Scheme. The required hydro-power message must contain assessments of where the power is produced and where it is likely to be used. This force, together with access to power from the Nordic market, should trigger expansions and new plants for the power-generating industry. Aluminium produced in Norway with hydropower as an energy driver is good environmental policy. Aluminium produced in China or in other countries that use coal in power generation emits approx. ten times as much CO2 as would be the case with Norwegian production. Despite the environmental benefit that hydropower will have for this industry, the government is doing very little to provide cheap electricity to the industry. SV has had too much power to prevent the government from investing in hydropower. In the eyes of the SV, renewable energy — and preferably wind power with large subsidies — is something to be put on for the future. The government has been confronted on several occasions with the need for overall plans, without it appearing to change the resistance to such plans. A Communication on Norwegian hydropower policy should be a natural part of an energy and nutrition plan. In the examination of Document 8:97 S, for 2009-2010, on Norwegian hydropower policy, the Government’s fraction stated, inter alia, that: the following: ‘The majority share the government’s assessment that Norway needs more energy, not more investigations’. Only when such a message has been prepared and dealt with in the Storting will this be an important management tool for the government on hydropower issues. The government's aversion to overall plans is frightening. Finally, I refer to the motion put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e591	The representative Henning Skumsvoll then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e594	Hydropower is a major part of what constitutes the energy nation of Norway. It is important to us today and will be important in the future – not least in relation to climate considerations, as it is a clean energy production. Right is concerned with further developing hydropower in the future, both through new developments and through upgrading existing installations. Today, there is a lot of technology that allows one to upgrade existing installations, both to take out more capacity and to take account of environmental values. We have a lot of focus on this with extraction rates within, among other things. The oil, but maybe we should be more concerned with the extraction rate of the hydroelectric power plants we've already built, and the natural resources that we've already done. Driving hydroelectric technologies in the future can also provide the basis for industrial and job creation in Norway if we focus on this. Our watercourses also represent important natural values, and several watercourses form part of that land in protective plans. Thus, unfortunately, we have been cut off from some small power installations in these watercourses if the installed power does not exceed 1 MW – with some exceptions. This concession limit is up to 3 MW in the Cream Watercourse and the Right wants this to be the rule for all watercourses within the protection plan. This could be a natural thing to address in the context of a flood notification on hydropower policy. There are two important elements that should underpin how we approach protection issues. One thing, of course, is clear to be able to define what is the purpose of protection, what values we want to take care of. Secondly, the challenge should be to ask questions about how to find good and balanced solutions between use and protection in each area. The right is behind the desire to preserve important natural values along our watercourses. At the same time, we see that the design of solutions to today's small power deployments can be shaped in such a way that it does not conflict with the protection values. Here, the Right believes that we need to be able to have a more pragmatic approach to these issues, where we ensure a better balance between use and protection. In order to follow such a trail, I also believe that some communities can look more positively at a protection that binds opportunities for industrial development and other types of intervention. In the case of the birch watercourse, I have been familiar with – despite the opening that has been given up to 3 MW of installed power – no concessions have been granted in this watercourse. I think it is important that the government now makes visible that they actually follow the Storting's desire to open up to 3 MW in this watercourse, but as I said, it remains to be seen. It is positive that Vefsna also received the same type of derogation, but from the Right point of view, we do not need a postponement in the decision to open up extensions of up to 3 MW in sheltered watercourses in general. In any case, each application will be considered on an independent basis in relation to the conflict with the protective values referred to by the protection plan for each watercourse. It is also open to the right to consider, in the light of concrete projects with broad local anchoring in local communities, the possibility of adjustments to existing protection plans. Technological developments have gone on; we have more knowledge of how to balance the development of the objectives for which protection is intended. But, as I said, in case it requires a broad local commitment and that one finds projects that do not go beyond the protection values that the protection plan is intended to take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e611	The hydroelectric force is important to Norway, and I perceive it as the big deal in this room. The debate also shows the importance of water resources for industry, for employment and for prosperity in our country. I will not repeat everything that has been said, but just put me behind it – the closest – the tribute that has come to this important resource for our country. Now we are in a new era: across the country, small and medium-sized power plants are popping up that create values and ringing effects in their communities. They lie fine, screened and gentle in nature, with no great pressure on the environment, and produce a lot of good, important and clean renewable energy. This is a willful development, a willful development that has taken place under this government. One has put in place a green certification system that we have reason to be proud of, which stimulates just more renewable production, also to a large extent hydropower. The representative of Rudihagen referred to numbers. I'm not going to repeat them, but it shows that there is a formidable development in this area that not only the government, but also the Storting has good reason to be happy with and proud of. This has had a major political focus, especially on production. Now we also increase the focus on what goes online, and we also need to focus on the consumption page. We can use this force to create more of the pure industry we have to replace fossil energy use on the base, in the transport industry and to export what might be surplus power. We also see that it creates opportunities for new industries that are power-intensive. Data storage is an example of that. The representative Meling showed that maybe we should be concerned about the extraction rate of the water force. The answer to that is that we are the highest. We are through the Green Certificate Scheme, and we are through other ways of facilitating renewable energy in general and hydropower in particular. So I mean that focus is good looking. We also see that many power companies around the country are now looking for the potential of upgrading and developing the water power plants that we have. So she picks up another theme that we've discussed earlier in this room, and that's the possibility of building something bigger hydroelectric power plant in sheltered watercourses. I've said before that it's a thought that I support. I also understand the last time we discussed it in this room, that the Council of State said that when we get some more experience from these two watercourses where we have such an opening, it's natural to look at that limit. So at least it's a signal also from my party in that case. So again, we're gathering here to discuss a matter where the thing is that the opposition is asking the government to come up with a case. This is how the Right Party and the Progress Party – and this has been shown in the weeks to come – are not entirely clear about the content of the comprehensive water power policy. Should a large watercourse be built, or should it not? But the one thing that's left is to ask for a cause. A repetition in this room is asking for things this way and then – as the last in the finance debate – show that this shows how many we are – we are some to ask the government for things. A long search shall take place to see an energy policy and a hydropower policy from the opposition's side, which is an alternative to the policy pursued by the government. That's what I'm choosing to interpret positively. It's a good policy the government has in this area. If you want to see a nuance in one area -- and it's an important area -- then it has to be what goes on in the common ownership we have of these values. It's obvious that the Right and the Advance Party are rocking at some of the values that others of us are gathering. In addition, there is little evidence that one here will be presented with a broad alternative Norwegian policy, either in the energy sector in general or in the water sector in particular, before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e628	We're lucky in Norway with large hydropower resources. It's renewable energy, it's climate friendly, and we have ambitious goals of extracting more. The Christian People's Party is committed to upgrading hydropower plants, and we are committed to facilitating the development of more power. At the same time, we do not follow the representatives behind the proposal for a representative in their need for a rematch on watercourse protection plans. We're dedicated to being able to review and maybe bring in new ones, maybe look at those lying there, but we're not ready for a rematch. That is why the Christian People's Party is also in line with the government parties in this case. The last time Stortinget dealt with a similar proposal from the same representatives, the Christian People's Party also voted against. The reason that time was that we wanted an energy message. This is how I could today, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, say that we would like to have a hydroelectric message, as the energy message has not arrived. But, as I said, we do not share the premises contained in the proposal on the need for a hydro-power report. The representative of Meling also points in his statement to the need for an upgrade to 3 MW, e.g. the possibility of applying for a concession for it in sheltered watercourses. It is also a matter I support, but for which there is no need for a separate message. There I may also get into the main point, and it is that my main criticism against the government is that I feel that it is struggling to see the context. Because some areas have done a lot of good, e.g. an online message. We have discussed oil reporting, we have had climate notification, renewable directives, electricity certificates, etc. But that opposition has come together and criticised, and as the Christian People's Party has had a desire to discuss much more, these sectors are in the context. My speculations are that there is obviously too much disagreement within the government that it can actually put the different messages next to each other and see what consequences they have for each other. Because what we had to do was see hydropower and renewable energy in the context of producing a lot of new renewable energy, and what we're going to use this new renewable energy for. There it is clear that the Christian People's Party has been concerned that we, among other things. will succeed in electrification at the Utsira Height and perhaps some other fields where it will be socio-economically profitable. We're going to produce a lot of new renewable energy, and the electrical certificate system is important. But to the representative Sande, who boasts that it came: it could have come in 2006, and should have come then. But now we have also been told why it is likely to have been exposed, through the voice of the representative Heidi Sørensen that this was the worst decision and the greatest political misstep she had ever made. There is a clear signal that there has not necessarily been much agreement within the government that this was an important arrangement. Our desire in this sector, and in the case of green certificates and new renewable energy, is to get more ‘driving’ during the concession treatment period. Because, as Sande says, it's not necessarily the big political differences right here. But when it says approx. 700 applications in queue, the treatment period is five to six years, and one sees that the window to be included in the electricity certificates is already beginning to close, it is clear that a much greater pressure should be put here. For entrepreneurs, who want to invest, who want to gain more power, it is also not easy to stand and wait for a long time. And then it's also: what's the force going to be used for? It'll be important. The Christian People's Party is committed to seeing the potential that lies in the hydropower. We're busy seeing the potential of upgrading the existing works, and we're busy seeing that there's the potential to expand more power. But we're not ready to take a rematch on protective plans. In this way, we do not need a separate hydro power message, but we would like to see an energy message, so that we could discuss the different fields together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e643	Let me just start by saying that I feel that there is a great deal of consensus about the main features of Norwegian hydropower management, perhaps with the exception of the rematch to which this is invited, related to the protection plans – protective plans that have been adopted in this room in many, many rounds. Let me also say that this is not the time for new and big plans. This is the time to implement ambitious targets, to which this room has also joined, targets that will provide Norway with a modern, good supply system, the highest renewable share in Europe and possibly in the world, and that will facilitate growth, value creation and industrial development across the country. In recent years, the government and the Stortinget have put in place important stones in Norwegian energy policy that will work for decades to come. We have put in place the certification system, we have submitted a renewable directive, we have increased the rate of concession treatment, through the online message we have defined the framework for network development, and through the climate communication we have put in place the climate fund under Enova. I Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 by the Ministry of Oil and Energy has included a separate section on energy policy. It sets out the views and priorities set out in the Energy Committee report. The statement shows that there is a good agreement between the government’s assessments and the sample’s assessments in terms of both trends and balances. The Norwegian Renewable Directive Action Plan sets out how Norway will achieve the renewable share target of 67.5 pst. in 2020. Together with Sweden, we aim to put 26.4 TWh in place by the end of 2020 with new production, a rise in electricity generation that we need to find generations back. To achieve the ambitious goals we have set, we depend on a sufficient number of projects being allowed in time. The effort to strengthen concessional treatment over several years has significantly increased the NVE’s procedural capacity. It will also improve the capacity of energy authorities to meet an increased uptake of hydropower projects over the years to come. The government will continue to streamline and strengthen concession treatment both in the NVE and in the ministry. In the ministry this year, we have dealt with considerably more complaints than has been done in the past. The queue's on its way down. Large investments shall be made in the network in the future. State networks are engaged in many important projects. In Report. St. 14 for 2011-2012, the online notification, proposed changes in the planning and concession treatment of large power lines. We hope that it will both streamline the process and increase legal certainty. The representatives call for a survey of the Norwegian hydropower potential. The NVE carries out an annual calculation and update of existing hydropower generation and the potential for new hydropower. I consider this overview to be comprehensive for the representatives who are asking for it. The proposers wish to re-examine the protection against watercourses in order to exploit a greater share of the remaining potential. As previously notified to the Stortinget on several occasions, there are no plans to propose changes to the protection plans. There is a significant potential outside the protection areas and the government is counting on the sound use of resources in these areas. Representatives are calling on governments to promote a deposit notification on Norwegian hydropower policy. I believe that the Storting through the chapter on the status of the energy policy in Prop. 1 S has been given an up-to-date overview of current instruments in the future and that energy policy has been sufficiently clarified. I therefore do not see that there is a need for a separate notification to the Stortingen on hydropower policy during this large-scale period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e666	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e670	In the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s many watercourses were protected. So hydropower plants could not be built there. There are now increasing numbers of water professionals in order for these watercourses to be re-assessed, with regard to the fall power. It's explained that today's technique will be a little awkward. 30-40 years ago, you didn't have the technique you have today. It would hardly have any significance — either for the environment or for biodiversity — whether major sub-flows are extracted. This is a resource. So my question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State explain why there is so much opposition in the government to re-assessing protected watercourses, which will produce CO2-free power, while wind farms can be built even if there are major natural interventions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e680	It is not the government's protective plans that underpin Norwegian watercourse protection, it is the Storting's protective plans that do. So in that case, the Storting itself has to reconsider these plans. I don't see the need for that. For several decades, there have been updated protection plans that have been on the ground. We have plenty of resources to take off in those watercourses that are not protected. I feel confident that through the technology-neutral system we now have, where we can expand hydropower, wind power and bioenergy, it will not only be possible, but realistic to achieve the very ambitious goals we have set, of increasing renewable energy production in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e687	The representative Sande referred to the stance of the Council of State to look at the possibility of major expansions in sheltered watercourses. He said that the opinion of the Council of State was that you have to gain some more experience from these projects, before anyone possibly goes in and looks at – and opens up – some larger expansions, perhaps to 3 MW. But in order to gain experience, it's an advantage that we get some projects in sheltered watercourses. Can the Council of State say something about this, whether we can have the hope that we can get some projects, examples, in sheltered watercourses, from which we can gain experience – and so get a little further on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e692	I noticed that the representative Sande presented my position and my views. I think it seemed reasonable and join the descriptions. As the representative of Meling is also known, concession applications of up to 3 MW have been opened in two watercourses. It is not the government that is applying for the development of these projects, it is the actors in these two watercourses, respectively, that have to do, and the applications have to be dealt with in the usual way. I attend, of course, to get good concession requests within the framework set by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e701	I thank you for the post from the Council of State, that was a good post. I think the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are in line with this kind of question. What I really want to challenge the Council of States is the very point of concessional treatment. I know that the Council of State has put on 'driving'. One also sees that the recent reorganisation has led to the treatment of several applications. It seems like you're thinking a little bit more holistic, and running applications through that way, which works well. So essentially, I just want to ask, what does the council do to get time down even more? What is the objective in terms of treatment time? When you say five to six years, it sounds very long. What does the Council of State think it should go down to?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e708	Thank you for a good and important question. There is no simple answer to the question asked by the representative. In many of these cases, there are also difficult balances between different considerations. I very much believe that more measures and approaches can be used to streamline the process, while improving quality and interaction with other key disciplines. In the Ministry of Oil and Energy – together with the NVE and to the extent that the Ministry of Environment – we work systematically to look at the system, how we can work better together, how we can organise this in a way that makes it both predictable and effective, and that provides a high-quality concession treatment, which we should have. Then we have said that we believe that the good projects that it is possible to realise will receive final answers in sufficient time to allow us to possibly expand within the window of the electrical certification system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e717	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e722	The progress party has raised several questions in the Stortinget about Norwegian hydropower production and the potentials that lie there and about a big deal about this. Furthermore, it should be opened for already protected watercourses. They should be re-evaluated with regard to power generation in the light of new and environmentally sound technologies that are not detrimental to the purpose of protection. The purpose of protection is important to preserve. No one wants to hurt what is protected. The need is great. The opportunities in our country for our environmental and climate change when it comes to new renewable energy production are significant, if only the will is there. Sorry, but the request is not new. We saw in Technical Weeksheet on the web 19 May 2008 that senior advisor Haakon Thaulow in NIVA, special advisor in LO Are Tomasgard and director of the Directorate of Nature Management, Janne Sollie, supports just this. These actors are not aware of taking on board any climate and environmental challenges, perhaps not later, from the Directorate for Nature Management. The party of progress believes that the statement by the majority that we need more power, not more distributions, shows that the government does not take seriously the great potential that the future expansion of hydropower could have. These members believe that only through a thorough hydro-power message will it be possible to plan and expand the remaining, large hydro-power potential in the country, especially in the light of the desire for a significant increase in the renewables. In addition, there is light in the windows in the districts, which the Center Party should be very busy. So one repeats this with an energy message. The progress you have made has a lot of suggestions for some messages. It is clear that when the government chooses not to provide an energy message, which should have a superior view of this, we will make this visible by promoting individual things, in addition to a desire for an energy message, which is to be a superior message, and which is to ensure the soundness of the message. But this has taken seven years and four central government councils – and one is on the ground. We're sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e735	Now I'm going to be completely short. First of all, if one seriously believes that only through a new hydropower message to Stortinget can more of the hydropower potential we have in the country, I just have to say that I'm fundamentally disagreed. Then you have to spend the time traveling around our country and see what's going on out there. There is the exploitation of hydropower potential in almost all the states of this country. Small power is being built in very many municipalities around this country that give light to the houses – almost in a double sense. So it's neat of me to clarify – when I pointed out to the previous debate we had about hydroelectric expansion in protected watercourses in this room – that that time the Council of State was another, but had the same solid and good party background as the current Council of State – so that it's also clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e742	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e756	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e765	The Ministry of the Environment proposes in its proposal amendments to Law 15 May 1992 No. 47 on salmonids and inland fish, etc. – the Salmon and Inland Fish Act. Law on salmonids and inland fish, etc. was adopted in May 1992. The law is the first real resource law for anadrome salmonids, inland fish and other freshwater organisms. Among other things, the principle of peace was introduced for anadrome salmonids, and the administration was given further powers to implement protection measures for fish stocks. According to the ministry, experience with the law for nearly 20 years suggests that he should be adjusted and improved in some areas. In addition, there is a need for adaptations to new schemes and decisions adopted after the entry into force of the law, in the first row of the system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords — and the Natural Diversity Act. Two significant changes are proposed in the Salmon and Inland Fish Act. This applies to compulsory organisation and operational planning of salmon watercourses and to the legislative adoption of the Stortingen plenary decision on national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. The aim is a stronger local management, while ensuring the care of fish resources and individual fishing rights. The system of national salmon rivers and national salmon fjords was introduced by plenary decisions in the Stortinget in 2003 and 2007. The purpose of the scheme is to provide the important salmon populations in Norway with special protection against, among other things. farming activities, pollution, harmful activities and interference with watercourses and the surrounding fjords and coastal areas. The establishment of the system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords required that the plenary decision of the Storting should be anchored in the Salmon and Inland Fisheries Act and the relevant regulations under this and other laws. The other amendments aim primarily at modernising and simplifying administration in relation to the law. Furthermore, an amendment to the Finnland Act is proposed, Law 17 June 2005 No. 85 on the legal situation and management of land and natural resources in the state of Finnmark, Chapter 4. This means that the legal decisions relating to general fishing rights, including net fishing in the current Tana Act of l888, are transferred to the Finnish Law, while the local population’s right to fishing by bar is regulated by the same law. To take the last one first, a relatively long time has been spent on this particular part of the Tana Act. A unanimous committee has considered it, in the light of what has been recorded and the view of the consultation round which the Committee has had, that the Tana Act of 1888 must be passed on as a special law. The Committee therefore believes that the government's proposal for a new Section 28 and Section 28a of the Finnish Law will be taken out, so that no changes are made to the Finnish Law – and this is the case in the Committee. The broad consensus on the extension of the 1888 Tana Act by local and regional authorities has made the impression on the Committee, and this is precisely the reason why this law, as some people describe as the foundation of the river valley, is laid down. That he needs a renewal is known, especially in the light of the mention of 'fit' in his text. In this context, I would like to commend the municipality of Tana and the municipality of Karasjok and the fishing management of the Tanavasstrak, together with many individuals. The Committee further points out that the stock situation of anadrome salmonids in several watercourses is serious and that stock monitoring and impact factors are needed as a basis for implementing effective but not overruns of landowners. Finally, some words about the vision of the Advance Party. The party of progress wonders that the majority categorically determines that the protection of the fjords and rivers should be permanent. These members pointed out earlier that the evaluation of the scheme should assess whether the measure has worked and whether it should be continued. The Party of Progress cannot see that this is happening and, until an evaluation has been made, will not decide whether the protection of the fjords and rivers in the form of national salmon fjords and salmon streams should be permanent. On this basis, these members are opposed to the legalisation of national salmon fjords and salmon streams at the present time. We will therefore oppose the amendment to Section 5(e) and 7(a) of the proposal. Furthermore, we oppose changes to Section 26 of the proposal for a law on amendments to Law 15 May 1992 No. 47 on salmonids and inland fish. We are not proposing this, but we are asking that the vote be put so that it is possible to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e793	The President takes the view that the Progress Party does not promote the proposals in the vote, but instead votes against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e796	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e801	Then it's understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e804	I refer you to the report that the case spokesperson had of the laws themselves. Salmon and inland fish laws are important for good management of the wild species. We have some of the most important habitats for wild salmon in Norway, and we have about a third of the total population. Norway therefore has a specific international responsibility for the wild species. The salmon represents significant values as a source of nutrition for legal practitioners and as a basis for tourism, and of course salmon has great significance for those who want fishing, outdoors and good natural experiences. The purpose of the laws is to maintain the stock in a good manner, while opening up the stock for the benefit of legal practitioners and recreational fishermen. The law dates back to 1992, and as the case-speaker did, there is a need for adjustments, adaptations and implementation of decisions taken by the Stortinget on national salmon rivers and salmon fjords. A number of changes have been proposed, including: the age limit for paying the State fishing fee will be raised from 16 to 18 years. It is a very good measure to stimulate more young people to experience nature and joy and the excitement of recreational fishing. There's a decline in such fish, and there's an activity I think we should stimulate. Other important changes require the compulsory organisation of fishing in salmon watercourses and require the operational plan in watercourses with such organisation. This is, of course, intended to ensure the best management of fishing resources and the regulation of fishing. I see that the Progress Party and the Right are skeptical that mandatory organisation is required, but there are examples of watercourses where there are conflicts that mean that no action is taken against gyro or other necessary management measures to keep the fish safe and get a good fish. In fact, there are rivers that are left off for fishing because of unresolved conflicts. This change in law may give you permission to clean up. Otherwise, it is clarified in the proposal that this mandatory organisation should not be made more extensive than is necessary to regulate fishing and manage fishing resources. When it comes to the legal fixing of national salmon fjords and salmon rivers, it is a follow-up to previous staging decisions that were made to protect the main salmon populations in Norway from, among other things. farming, acidification, harmful activities and watercourse and nearby fjord and coastal areas. The party of progress and the Right opposes and points out that the system must first be evaluated, but it has always meant that the national salmon watercourses and the salmon fjords should be permanent. But it is also such that new technologies, knowledge and other conditions may require a later change in the legislation governing the management of the areas in question. The system shall be evaluated after 10 years, i.e. in 2017. Another change that the Progress Party and the Right oppose is the general right to fish in watercourses where public support for action is provided. I mean that change is right and important, and the government party supports this, but assume that the public fish administration and the justice agencies usually become some of the memorable arrangements for the general right to fish. They argued that the home to establish closer rules would be useful only exceptionally when necessary in order to preserve the interests of generality according to the purpose of the law. This may be the case where the State should intervene, for example: if a pure exclusive fish is prepared in a gyro-treated watercourse – for example. As the case-speaker did well, a joint committee will not change the Finnish law, but will allow the right to a full-scale fishing in Tanalova. That means Tanalova exists, but it has to be revised. She will have to come back to Stortinget after a regular billing process. I refer to, among others: an entry which will come from Bendiks Arnesen, which refers to that particular part.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e827	The right is pleased that a unanimous committee agrees that the Tana Act of 1888 must be continued as a special law. As stated in the bill, the government proposed that the rights provisions relating to general fishing rights, including shrimp fishing, in the present Tana Act of 1888 should be moved to the Finnish Law. However, in the light of the views expressed through the consultation round held by the Committee, we are pleased that the Tana Act is being continued and that the changes proposed regarding the right of the local population to fishing by rod are incorporated into this law. On the right, it goes against that part of the bill that deals with the legislative adoption of the Stortingen plenary decision on national salmon rivers and national salmon fjords. In the Right, we want a knowledge-based management, and we are therefore surprised to see that the protection of the fjords and the watercourses is to be permanent before we have an evaluation. The right has called for an evaluation of the scheme, and we await this evaluation before deciding whether the protection should be permanent or whether there are other interventions that are more appropriate to achieve the results we want. The right is engaged in the exercise of private ownership and the rights and interests of landowners. Many landowners and riverowners cooperate closely in the management of watercourses. We have therefore expressed scepticism that mandatory organisation of fishing rights holders is required in smaller watercourses. In that case, this must be limited to a minimum of what is required to achieve a common administration. Right also goes against the proposed amendments to Section 26. Amendments are proposed which will provide extended opportunities to require the management of fishing, or a proportionate share of fishing, for the benefit of the general public. This applies in watercourses where significant funds have been used by the State for, for example: limination or control of gyro. This work has often been carried out in close cooperation with both landowners and non-governmental organisations. In our opinion, it is positive that good cooperation between landowners and non-governmental organisations is continuing, and this is happening, among other things. through access to fisheries for the general public, based on voluntary activities and on common benefit. In our opinion, however, it is wrong to narrow down the discretion of the landowners with such a change in law. Individual landowners cannot be burdened because acid rain has reduced water quality, as little as individual landowners can be burdened for gyrosis. For the Right, it is important that the regional resource base can be used for the creation of value and income to ensure the settlement. Then landowners along our watercourses must also have room for action to plan, think long-term and develop good recreational and travel products in their communities, based on the resources represented by the watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e842	The villa has a value in itself, it has an economic value and it is an important common value. Much of the discussion about the law we are dealing with now concerns proposals for amendment of the Finnish Law and the termination of the Tana Act from 1888. We have understood that there are very strong feelings attached to this, and that there is a fear that the rightholders of, and users of, Tanaelva will lose traditional rights. I would therefore like to stress that I understand that there has been no real disagreement about rights to fishing in Tanaelva. When the Ministry of the Environment has proposed that the provisions of the Tana Act be modernised and incorporated into the Finnish Law, it is because they have done the job that Stortinget has previously assigned them. That is why, through the Committee's proposal, the Stortinget is now inviting the adoption of the Tana Act. I think that is a sensible decision. The system of national salmon rivers and national salmon fjords was introduced by the Stortinget in 2003. The aim was to protect the main salmon populations in Norway from, inter alia, breeding activities, pollution, harmful activity and interference both in the watercourse and in nearby fjords and coastal areas. A total of 52 national salmon rivers and 29 national salmon fjords have been established and separate protection regimes have been adopted for the areas concerned. With the amendments currently being made, the scheme is legalised, on the basis of which the Ministry is responsible, to lay down detailed rules on the administration. It may allow policy authorities to impose on rightholders measures for the protection and development of the salmon strain if the interests of the fish are not properly protected and amicable arrangements cannot be achieved. Experience so far suggests that there will be a possible exceptional situation and that it would not be appropriate to impose measures on rightholders involving large economic costs. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are asking questions about the need for the permanent protection of national salmon rivers. Our goal is that they will be able to sustain salmon water, and then we believe that a law will give them better protection. It will be necessary in the foreseeable future, and then the question of whether it is permanent becomes of more philosophical importance. But protection is as durable as the Storting decides. That is why it is so important that we retain a majority that is still too long-term protection in many areas. The other significant change in the Salmon and Inland Fish Act applies to mandatory organisation and operational planning in salmon watercourses. The Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed to this. It's like you were in a country where you needed to build dikes and then built dikes along most of the coast. But it is not enough if not all the landowners participate. This chain is not stronger than the weakest term, and because it has such great consequences, you actually have to commit everyone. The management of a salmon watercourse must be done jointly. Luckily, that's also how it's done. But now the law requires rightholders to organise themselves together for the benefit of the river and for the salmon strain to be protected. When a particular effort is made by the public, this effort should benefit the public. This is what is open in Section 27, as well as the possibility of prohibiting all fishing in order to protect life in the river. SV supports the continuation of 16 years as a limit on children’s right to free fishing, but in a new batch programme we want to extend the age limit to 18 years, as proposed by many consultation bodies in this case. It is in line with the fact that the age limit for State fishing fees has been raised from 16 to 18 years. We want to facilitate recruitment for sport fishing and the use of nature. In that case, salmon fishing is particularly exciting. It is difficult to find examples that children’s fishing may have some specific consequences for landowners beyond what is less significant, but the law specifies that if there is a conflict between children’s fishing and fishing culture measures, the Ministry may also regulate this fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e859	Now the case spokesperson has presented the matter in a strong and engaging manner, and I think there is reason to commend him, for it has been a cumbersome process. In particular, the changes made by the Committee in connection with its Government's proposal in the case of Tanalova have required that both parties meet and enter into a difficult situation. The case spokesperson has done that. The centre party supports the changes proposed by the government otherwise, but I have some comments on some points, which have also been commented on by several of those who have had posts here before me. It's a debt of gyro. The centre party has also pointed out earlier that it is not the legal entities that are guilty of spreading the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. Some would then claim that it is untimely to impose conditions on their general rights by public participation to remove the parasite in these watercourses. The same applies to acidification, for which the legal entities are not responsible. When we from the Center Party's side support the legislative changes in this area today, it's because the law we've had up until today, in principle, opens up to put conditions in the watercourses where the public bill of means to remove the gyro parasite. Thus, today's changes mean a tightening compared to existing law, by clarifying that there must be substantial financial resources from the state before these conditions enter into force, and that the conditions should apply for a more specific period of time. In this way, in our view, it is to strengthen the justice system, as compared to today's laws. However, it is important to stress that this has never been done for gyro, since one has a good tradition of having a supply to the general public in these watercourses as well. So we're assuming that there's an exception to this. So, by the way, I'm Tanalova. The case-speaker has, as I said, done well for the assessments made by a joint committee to uphold this law, and in the Central Party we believe that one here has come up with a good solution, that one has come up with the local people in the area and has listened to the recordings they have had, which shows that the Storting and the treatment here is just about to record a sheep, based on a philosophy that the knowledge is equally distributed across the country. In the case of compulsory organisation, choose the Centre Party to support the submission because it is a clear premise that the content of this organisation in the administration and in the operational planning should be governed by the legal entities. Those who know the Center Party know that ownership is strong in our party, but we've always talked about that basic ownership rights are also linked to duties and responsibilities. In some cases, such as this, the rights are not independent of other rights holders, on the contrary, the resources depend on the other people who have access to the same resources to manage them effectively. Arguing against organisation with a background in the freedom of justice does not hold whole water, all the time freedom of one may be binding on other rightholders in this case. Let it also be said that by far the majority of legal practitioners today are doing a good and not least important job in government. And it's no wonder that that happens, because here it's not primarily a short-term gain that's the focus, most of the legal entities he has come close to in the blood, this 'administrator' idea -- the idea that land and resources should be left to the next generation in at least as good a condition as one took over. It's a thought that's also strong in the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e876	According to the Directorate of Nature Management, 20 pst. of the total 481 salmon populations registered in Norway assessed as lost, threatened or in very poor condition due to anthropogenic influence. So far, 46 salmon populations in Norway have been lost, mainly due to watercourse expansions, contamination and the Gyrodactylus salaris parasite. Eight populations have been assessed to be critically threatened or lost due to the incorporation of escaped farmed salmon. In the case we now have to deal with, the Department proposes two significant changes to the Salmon and Inland Fish Act. This concerns the requirement for mandatory organisation and operational planning of salmon watercourses and the legislative adoption of the Stortingen plenary decision on national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. The requirement of mandatory organisation and operational planning shall contribute to strengthening the role of rightholders in the management of fisheries. This means that the relationship between public and private law administration becomes clearer and will provide a basis for transferring additional responsibilities and tasks to rightholders. The establishment of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords was carried out in order to provide special protection against, inter alia, the main salmon populations in Norway. breeding activities, pollution, harmful activities and interference with watercourses in the neighbouring fjord and coastal areas. A total of 52 national salmon rivers and 29 national salmon fjords have been established and separate protection regimes have been adopted for the areas concerned. The scheme is not yet legal, but both at the time of establishing and supplementing the system of national salmon waters and salmon fjords, it was provided that the plenary decisions of the Stortinge should be anchored in the Salmon and Inland Fisheries Act and in relevant regulations under this and other laws. That's what the Storting is doing today, and we in the Christian People's Party are happy for that. This case should have been dealt with in Stortinget in May, but was postponed due to objections regarding changes to the Finnish Law. The proposal proposes that the rights provisions relating to general fishing rights – including the provisions on net fishing in the current Tana Act of 1888 – be transferred to the Finnish Law, while the local population’s right to fishing by bar is enshrined in the same law. Following the involvement and views of the Committee on the matter, the whole Committee has come to the conclusion that the Tana Act of 1888 must be continued as a special law. The Government's proposal for new paragraphs 28 and 28(a) of the Finnmark Act is deleted so that no changes are made to the Finnmark Act. The Committee does not object to the material content of the Government's proposal and therefore considers that the Government should come back with proposals for amendments to the 1888 Act. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we got this solution in the committee. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party argues that the public fisheries management and rightholders generally agree on amicable arrangements for public access to fisheries when the State contributes substantial funds to the reconstruction and conservation of fish stocks. It is assumed that the State's discretion to lay down detailed rules is used only exceptionally and when this is necessary in order to safeguard the public interest and the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e890	I am pleased to see that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment in the vote has chosen to follow the government's proposals for changes to the law on salmon and inland fish and nature diversity. I note that the Committee does not support the proposal for amendments to the Finnish law, but would like to see fishing in the Tanavas line still regulated by special law. I promise to come back with a new proposal on this at a later date. The Law on Salmonidae and Inland Fish was adopted in 1992 and entered into force on 1 January 1993. While previous laws with the corresponding field of activity mainly regulated fisheries and dishes, the 1992 Act was the first real resource law for anadromous salmonids, inland fish and other freshwater organisms. It was a health code for all who live in fresh water, and the aim was to preserve stocks, but also to ensure fish as a resource for the enjoyment of the rightholders and the general public. These are still the two most important objectives of the laws. Salmon and inland fishing is an important resource for landowners, and to the delight of many in outdoor life and recreation. But it's been a long time since the laws came into force. It should now be improved in some areas and adapted to new schemes and decisions adopted after the entry into force of the law. This is the case in the first row of the system of national salmon rivers and salmon fjords, and natural disasters. There will now be two major changes in the salmon and inland fishing laws. Firstly, the role of legal entities in the management of fish will be strengthened by mandatory organisation and operational planning. The new decision obliges the legal entities in salmon watercourses to merge on common management. Very many legal practitioners are already doing a very good job of managing the error. The new scheme will provide legal entities with an even better tool in the organisation process and provide a basis for transferring additional responsibilities and tasks to the legal entities. The second important change is the legalisation of the Stortingen’s decision on national salmon rivers and salmon fjords. The scheme is one of the main measures for the protection of the wild species, and I am very pleased that it is now being legislated in the salmon and inland fish laws. Legislation is in line with the decision of the Committee of the Regions of 22 November this year and the plenary decision of the Stortinge on the creation of 52 national salmon rivers and 29 national salmon fjords in 2007. The purpose of the scheme is to provide a selection of the main salmon populations with special protection against harmful interference and activities in the current watercourses and fjords. A change I am particularly pleased with is the raising of the age limit for the payment of the State fishing fee for fish of anadrome salmonids from 16 to 18 years. Being happy in nature is an entirely fundamental premise to take care of him. Leisure fishing is very important for the recruitment to outdoor life and leads to many becoming permanently active in outdoor life and happy in Norwegian nature. Participation in recreational fishing is still very high in Norway, but has a declining trend, not least among young people. The rise in the age limit for fishing fees from 16 to 18 years will help improve the conditions for young people’s recreational fishing, and hopefully help recruit more young people for the fine natural experience of fishing. Following consultations with the Sameting, a new decision is now taken to ensure that an appropriate emphasis is placed on the natural basis of Sami culture by decision following or subject to the Salmon and Inland Fisheries Act. Such a decision already exists in the case of natural disasters, and is natural to have also in the Salmon and Inland Fisheries Act, which regulates an important resource for Sami use. Besides this, there's a bunch of smaller changes that I'm not getting closer to here. In addition to changes in salmon and inland fish laws, a number of minor changes in natural disasters occur. The aim is to ensure good coordination between this law and the law on salmon and inland fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e905	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e908	First, I want to thank the Committee for very good cooperation, that we managed to get to this matter as we did. When it comes to the plenary decision and the articles that have come up about it, especially from Karin Andersen, it's not like we're necessarily against the plenary decision. It was based on a premise that one should evaluate and see what use we have of this, so that one could give it some kind of knowledge evaluation that would give promises of greater legitimacy. Then we have to ask: why choose to ignore this evaluation that was clearly highlighted earlier? Now you just go in and decide, and you don't evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e915	It has always been the intention of the national salmon and salmon fjords to be permanent. It has also been suggested that this should be legally enforced. When one is going to do an evaluation after ten years, it is because changes and new technologies may require adjustments, because it is good to stop and ask whether things work as they are, or whether adjustments are needed. I think we're evaluating a system is a bad argument for not making it permanent, as long as it's one of the most important measures we have to ensure good management of our salmon populations. The national salmon watercourse and salmon fjords comprise about 75 pst. of wild-type resources. Their management is very, very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e922	The representative Karin Andersen and, in part, the representative Sande could easily lead the assembly to believe that the Right opposes compulsory organisation. That's not right. Anyone who reads the settings will see that we're behind it. At the same time, we stress in our remarks how important it is not to use this in time and in time, and to try to make it a minimum in terms of demands that had to be made against landowners. I hope that I can get a confirmation from the Council of State that if you go in and use coercion, you try to facilitate or require a minimum of effort and financial expenses, etc. for each landowner, so that you do not abuse the option you are now given — even with the support of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e929	If the question is whether I am too abusive and coercive, then enough is the answer that I am actually against. I think it would have wide support in the Norwegian big business to be against it. What I think, on the other hand, is very important, is to understand that some things in society are such that if it's going to work, everyone has to be involved. Doing things together to make it work is important and necessary, especially when there is the weakest link in the chain that determines how well the sum is, as Andersen said. It's an important part of Norwegian society tradition that we can do it. This is a good example of an important area. Then I would like to add that it was the Norwegian Salmon itself that proposed this scheme in its time. They represent river ownership in 90 watercourses with a total of three quarters of the river catch, so it should also have quite wide support among those involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e938	I can agree that there is no need for intervention in time and inconsistency, so I am pleased that the Council of State is clarifying. I have a question that I perceive the Council of State was in on. It's about how to make salmon more accessible to the public. We are probably many who have tried to get salmon, and have experienced that it is a time-consuming affair. You have to be quite nice and know local conditions to succeed, and you have to have a good portion of patience. It is a pleasure in fishing and outdoor life that you should be able to participate in as much as possible. When you look at the use of liming and the fight against salmoneus, etc., you see that the public spends a lot of resources. Salmon is a value in itself, but you should also think more about how to make things right. It's a little about this case. But of the recordings, I also see that there are organisations that are concerned about how to do it even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e945	At first I thought the representative actually asked if I could help him become a more skilled salmon fisherman. I was then going to answer that I do not have the competence to do so, and that I also feel that there is a little bit on the side of my mandate as State Council. But more generally, this is an important question. We have significantly increased the opportunities for outdoor life in the draft budget for next year, because – I must admit – it was at a rather low level. But much of it will be in support of organisations, e.g. to Norway’s Hunting and Fishing Associations, and to activities, not least targeting groups that do not currently operate so much with outdoor activities. Many of the things that you do in the Hunter and Fish Federation, for example, are related to offering – what to say – a low-threshold hunting and fishing offer to those who might want a taste of it. I know they're also doing a very good and systematic job of getting more kids. It also makes other organisations, and the landowners of the river around it. I'm very busy doing even more of this, and raising the age limit can also be a good contribution to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e952	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e955	I want to focus this brief article on the Tana Law. I must stress that I am pleased that a unanimous position has been reached on this point. Land and natural resources in Finnmark have enormous dimensions, and it is important that the management of these resources is well managed and in close cooperation with those living in these areas. For those who do not know these areas, it may be difficult to understand what is being talked about in terms of land and natural resources in Finnmark. Maybe someone can form a picture of this when we know that Finnmark County is one and a half times as large in area as the whole country of Belgium. The Tana Act of 1888 has had the primary task of managing resources in a good and sound manner, and it is natural when we know what kind of significance the Tanavas line has had over many generations. The tanava stretch is not a river of any kind, but it is called Scandinavia's best salmon eel with a unique place in Sami culture. It is therefore understandable that both local and in many organisations there is a concern about how a change can affect this important administration, when we know how well this has been done so far. The tanavas range has had a very important impact on both housing, agriculture, other industries and outdoors in these areas over many generations. The exposure to this matter that we are dealing with today also clearly shows what kind of opening up the Tana Law still has in this entire large region. No one has been served with an uproar on this important matter. Many people have suggested that the Tana Act should be modernised, without doing so at the very core of the law. I don't think anyone will oppose this, but it's still important to focus on local people's knowledge and the main objective of the law as it has been so far. I am pleased that the Council of State is in agreement with the Committee's wish to regulate fishing in the Tanava stretch through a special law in the future, and that he will come back to Stortinget with one thing about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e972	I want to brag by the committee. I want to commend them for listening to local interests, and for ending up continuing the Tana Law as a special law. I think there is a great deal of respect for the work that has been done. I also want to say something about this with matriculated and unabated ground in Finnmark. Because it's like the landowner's rights in Finnmark are something different than in the rest of the country. If you live in Tanadalen, it's actually so that you don't own your own property, you rent it out of the state for 100 years. In practice, this means that you are without the right to make money on your property, related to the future lease of, for example: fishing rights. You don't have a chance to do that, because you can't rent out anything you even rent out of the state. That is, a landowner in Finnmark has far fewer rights than is usual in our nation. The rights on which the owner remains today are the ability to manage the watercourse on which he lives, and there is the possibility of fishing in the river, including drift nets and fences. But being able to make money on one's own property, building up tourism, creating jobs and incomes is still impossible to implement in Finnmark. At least then it is good that the few rights that the landowner has today are passed through the Tana Law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e982	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e996	The Committee considers that good statistical material is a prerequisite for the conduct of knowledge-based policies. A joint methodological work in the 30 EEA countries will contribute positively to the work of the Norwegian environmental management. The regulation will include, inter alia: provide increased knowledge of the relationship between economic activity and emissions to the atmosphere, pressures on natural resources and the environment, and environmental taxes in the EEA territory. There is therefore an overall committee that considers this to be valuable information and that Norway should participate in and contribute to this work. Let me add, on my own account, that this is another example of commitment to international cooperation with our European neighbours being in Norway's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1005	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1011	Then Stortinget will vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1019	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2 by Mr Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose supplementary legislative provisions to a cultural law that better sees cultural actions in the context by simplifying and bringing together today’s fragmented legislation in the field, while at the same time specifying the state cultural obligations.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1048	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose additional legislative provisions to the Culture Act clarifying the artistic freedom of the institutions and artists.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1069	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:122 S [[2011-2012]] The President assumes that the Left will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1086	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1094	During the debate, Mr Skumsvoll put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Stortinget calls on governments to promote a monitoring report on Norwegian hydropower policy.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1121	The President makes it clear that in this case there are no minority proposals from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposers will achieve the same by voting against sections 5(e), 7(a) and 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1622	It is added to Section 5(e), 7(a) and 26 of the adjustment. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1636	The rest of the I and the II and III were added to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1645	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1654	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-30.ana.ud1902e1682	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
