ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e43	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Eva Vinje Aurdal For Northern Trøndelag County: Change Skervø From 9 October to 22 October, the representative Thomas Breen shall apply for a care permit. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the Hedmark County, Farahnaz Bahrami, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge from 9-11. October, under the authority of the representative Thomas Breen. From the third and fourth alternates of Hedmark County, Ivar Skulstad and Mona Strand respectively, there are applications for exemption from meeting in the Stortinge from the 9th to 11th years. October, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates of Hedmark County are convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: Lasse Juliusus 9-11. ==References====External links== October
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e94	The representative Lasse Juliussen is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e108	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e122	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e131	Today's proposal is a proposal from the Progress Party to achieve a more comprehensive adult learning plan. There is broad consensus in the Committee on many of the intentions behind the proposal. We see that it is a challenge in adult education today that many of the traditional institutions have become more introverted in developing their own study offerings, and the use of private-sector schemes and others has been greatly weakened following the quality reform of higher education. New demands are therefore placed on the use of new forms of continuing education and training, and it will be important to strengthen adult education. While we see that adult training has been poorly treated under several governments, under several regimes, we now see that there is a need around the country for an ever-increasing supply of continuing education. It was once a Minister of Education – as I heard – from Portugal who said that now society is developing so fast that we can't train people to anything special anymore, we have to train people to something flexible. Today we see that there is a great need for relevant continuing training in very many fields. It is also a very important step for many district municipalities that have difficult access to the higher continuing education institutions. The Committee has shown that there is good cooperation between municipalities, municipalities and businesses, including: through professional schools, in order to strengthen adult training. We see that the county councils, municipalities, NHO, LO, Nav, KS and the education sector do a lot to enter into commitment partnerships in terms of career guidance and more formal competences. The Committee considers that there is a great need for greater interaction in the adult education field, and believes that more training courses are needed that can provide informal skills more formally. That's how it's a minority and a majority. The majority will probably be able to argue that they are against the proposal, but the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left support the proposal in the matter: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national cross-ministerial plan for adult learning to make it visible and to provide better provision of relevant and good continuing training.’ We need a boost in continuing education in many fields of society. We also need greater coordination, and we need to raise the adult education component, so we see that we are able to build skills and be able to keep the Norwegian population in line with the developments that we see demanding new skills in very many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e149	It's like today, as the representative Skei Grande also said, that more than ever, it's unclear what future we're actually going to meet. It was probably the few people who 50 years ago knew what we were going to do today, knew how strongly information and communication technology was going to dominate our society, and could say something about what kind of skills were going to handle it. In view of the fact that in the last 20 to 30 years there have been many who have also needed a great deal of knowledge, a great need for continuing training, and many have probably also needed further training in order to change and do something new. I think it is fine that this also comes to discussion in Stortinget. But as the representative Skei Grande had in mind, this has been quite a broad consensus for quite a long time in the Storting and in the Committee that there is a great need for it. Then is the issue of the government to draw up a national cross-ministerial plan for adult learning to make visible and provide better provision of relevant and good continuing training. I think the intention in that is good, but the best job you could do there wouldn't be enough to say anything about the offer that really exists out there. We know that a lot of learning takes place in the workplace through training and transfer of competences. There are a lot of organizations that are learning for adults. There are colleges, colleges and universities. Some of this is easier to put on system than others. What I think there is a great need to say something about is: how can the knowledge acquired by adults through very many different forms of practice also be used against the more institutionalised educational institutions? How can we show how we appreciate the learning that has taken place in workplaces and elsewhere? There are, for example: a national qualification framework. I would like more of the informal and non-formal learning to be brought in there, and that we can make it more visible how it fits into the rest of the education system. I think that's important. I think it's important that we, for example. manages to create a better national school plan to say something about how the offer works together across the different counties, after it has been transferred to the counties. I also think it is time that we sat down with the social partners and talked about how together we could get an even greater stake in continuing education. Here we know that the discussion of living is one of the big things we have to be able to land. There's been a crazy lot of good work in this period. In particular, I would like to highlight the efforts made by the government in the BKA programme. There are many adults here who have gained their basic skills, many adults who have been able to acquire more education. We almost just have to keep going on that job. But I think that a little bit of the key to succeed in this work is that we rather than make a plan where we try to put everything into one booth, let people work in several arenas at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e166	Initially, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done on this matter on the need for a comprehensive cross-ministerial plan for adult learning. There is a great need to make the various educational services well known, and a national plan needs to be made much more easily accessible and provide a good overview of the different services offered. This is a topic that we in the Progress Party believe is of great importance for the individual adults who want or need training, and for the private and public sectors, who need employees with up-to-date skills. In particular, the provision of adult education is of great importance within the Nav system, which is responsible for offering retraining to people who have fallen out of work for various reasons, and therefore needs new knowledge. There are many good examples of Nav cooperating with external providers of education, providing a much better benefit for users than traditional Nav courses. Adult training organisations can tailor their offers to the individual’s needs to a much greater extent. This shows that there is a need for much more interaction and coordination between different actors. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that a unanimous committee supports the positive comments made in the proposal. From many sources, it is said that adult education is fragmented and difficult to find out. That is why we want to take overall national responsibility for making the different options transparent and easily accessible. Most of the information needed to create a database and a printed directory of this is, I think, easily available. The EESC is also in favour of the EESC being so clear that there is a need to strengthen interaction and coordination in the field of adult training. Today's offer of adult education includes everything from primary, secondary, higher, continuing education in the direction of higher education and universities and basic labour skills. Many today’s adult education providers run online education, and today it is possible to take education wherever you live, as long as you have access to electricity. For this reason it does not just keep an overview of local offers. The Progress Party believes that national coordination responsibilities – in cooperation with the adult education and training partners – must now be taken in order to establish a database with an overview of national supply. Increased knowledge and awareness of opportunities in adult education will lead to increased skills in the population and be a good thing for society as a whole. The Adult Training Association and other actors in adult training also agree with the proposal and therefore do not support the argument of the representative Wickholm who, although the Workers' Party is involved and supports the comments in the case, expresses the fear that it may be selected to participate in such a plan and that there will be a reduction in the offer. He has been on – in the form of a note – to support that it should not be so, so I am a little surprised at that post. The Adult Education Association is clear that they have long wanted politicians to see the adult education field in context – this in order for us, as politicians, to see how the three main pillars – labour learning, formal training, voluntary sector learning – complement each other and are interdependent. We expect the government to come to the Stortinget soon with proposals on national guidelines for the translation of real skills into education. It is important to make formal qualifications understandable to all involved, i.e.: the working life, the students and the teachers. This will also stimulate mobility between different levels of the education system and promote equivalence between different learning venues. A single committee supports, through the positive comments in the case, the need to facilitate adult learning. Although there is no majority for the proposal itself, hopefully this consensus will be a good basis for continuing to work on adult education. Then I will promote the minority proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e185	Then the representative Bente Thorsen brought up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e188	I would first like to commend the proposers for putting an important theme on the agenda. As many have experienced, continuing education — adults’ learning at different levels — is an increasingly important part of society’s overall toolbox on transition and re-schooling. But the problem in this field is probably also – perhaps mentioned in previous articles – that we are talking about a very complex area. We're talking about a number of people with very different needs, with different starting points, and we're talking about a variety of actors who at different levels provide more or less extensive training for adult workers. Just the complexity of this landscape makes it difficult, in our opinion, to believe that all problems could be solved by creating what is called a plan in this proposal. It is possible that the reason why the Right distinguishes layers with the other opposition parties in this case is a slightly different understanding of the term ‘plan’. We're really interpreting the proposal in this case to create such an overall plan for adult learning as a very comprehensive work, and we don't think it's obvious that it's easy or appropriate to do it. I will also, on the right, give praise to the Council of State for a very good response to the Committee on this matter. The response from the Ministry and the Minister of Knowledge gives a very clear account of the complexity, scale and diversity of this landscape. A number of measures have been taken, for example: The BKA programme, which is about basic labour skills, was set up as late as 2006. An evaluation of this programme is in progress. A number of other actions have been launched in recent years by a number of different actors on a mission, among others. from the Department. It's at all a pretty dynamic image we're seeing right now. This means that there is a need for more information. Some of the work is now in progress, and there may be a need at a later stage to sit down and try to redraw this landscape. But making a plan that only provides an overview of an offer is at least not a right view of what a plan is. Information and making offers available are likely to be needed at all times. But making a plan will, in our opinion, be helping to redesign this landscape. Proposalers are also concerned with this in their proposal, which states that there is a need for a ‘streamline-forming’ of the offer. It's probably a very big challenge when we talk about a complex area like this. The right is therefore on his own comment in the matter. We agree with the intention of this proposal, but we do not share the view that at this point we should sit down and plan all over this area. But better information and better accessibility for users and for actors will always be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e201	The adult training field is, as many people have been involved, a jungle of offers for a small uniform group. That group has the most in common is that those who are there come under the term ‘adults’. The importance of motivating more adults to acquire formal competence and meet the need for changing skills through professional life is increasing. It is important because society’s needs and the needs of individual adults for education are increasing. Therefore, it is important that we pay great attention to the field of adult education in the future. The parties agree with the intentions of the proposers to facilitate the provision of information as an adult in this youth of offers. There is also a need to get an overview of what kind of offers actually exist. That being said, this is a diversity of offers to a slightly uniform group, and it is a major challenge to keep a continuous overview, especially because providers are both private, non-profit and public, and the offer varies both geographically and over time. I really don't think we want to streamline this field too much either. It may have an undesirable and limiting effect on the development of offers. Another possibility is that, for example: providers agree to establish a digital portal to present the various offers together. This was also the representative of Thorsen. This will make it easier for adults with a need for learning, for advisers and employers to brief themselves and to find out what is best for individuals. A separate digital portal with an overview of rights and the various educational services can respond to the needs of both education providers and beneficiaries that they are lacking today. I want to promote career centres as an important function, especially in terms of formal competence. I think it's a strength if these can evolve further and reach more. Through these centres, applicants, advisers and others can obtain a comprehensive overview of offers throughout the education cycle – from higher education to higher education. Proposals ask for a cross-ministerial plan for adult learning to make visible and provide better provision of relevant and good continuing training. Should a visualisation of the offer be relevant, I think we might be looking for something that is more dynamic than a written one-time documentation. This will be static, and it might serve as a statement of what kind of offers we have today, and what we want in the future, but it may not be dynamic enough to be able to quickly take up offers that are created or closed. There is no doubt that many actors contribute to providing services to adults who need training. It's about adults struggling with something as basic as reading and writing. Others need further training, further training or retraining. Others, once again, want to be cultural bearers who want to pass on important cultural history from one generation to another. As we know, the need is very different – in many levels, in different areas and for different groups. But almost no matter what the need is, there is an offer that answers. I am also a little alert when the term ‘relevant’ is used in this context. What is relevant adult training? I would like to warn against a «cleaning» that in practice implies a narrow exploitation of various offers. It is important to maintain a broad knowledge view and not to focus unilaterally on formal qualification offers. The part of adult education that provides skills in lifelong learning, community development, public health and cultural communication is of great value – for individuals, for organisations, for cultural life and for society as such. We therefore need to add a distinction in adult education, but to facilitate further development of the entire field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e224	Our society is in a raging development. Knowledge we acquired in elementary school, and as we thought were eternal truths, is not even part of the curriculum anymore. This, of course, also affects working life. The education of a degree or a profession provides basic knowledge, but you're totally dependent on updating knowledge throughout your life in order to be able to stay in the workplace and in your profession. There is an overall committee that is committed to facilitating both formal and informal learning throughout its life. Adult training is based on three main pillars: labour market learning, formal training and voluntary sector learning. I am pleased that an overall committee also emphasises the learning that takes place every day in different voluntary teams and organisations. That educational arena has often been viewed as a bit side of the education system. The importance of adult education is often justified financially. We want the best skilled workers possible. It also provides a global competitive advantage. It's not wrong to justify adult education financially, but we must never forget that knowledge is more than economics. Knowledge also has self-esteem. Learning more, getting new insights, increasing your knowledge, even if you don't get money out of it, is important, because knowledge increases the quality of life and makes life richer for the individual. Knowledge increases the wonder and makes us more curious, it increases our imagination and creativity. Knowledge also increases our self-confidence, a self-confidence that we really need at a time when there are many changes, increased mobility and new demands for what we as human beings are going to deliver. Lifelong learning, which focuses only on formal competence and does not recognise life experience and practical experience, makes the concept of knowledge poor. We should all also be able to take this perspective with us, and not only talk about economic prosperity, but also about quality of life when we discuss this topic. Let me also take the opportunity to say something about the expectations and needs that existed, for example. in the study associations after we received the new Adult Education Act. There has probably been a great disappointment that, after the law came, neither economically has been able to implement what is in it, nor has it been given what is needed for human resources to fulfil what the Adult Education Act actually uses. I also want to take advantage of this opportunity to say something about the Christian People's Party's desire that several higher education schools be allowed to give an offer to adults without rights. When we talk about adult education and formal competence, maybe it's one of the most important things that we do today. There are some private schools that are allowed to do that. We could have managed to get more people to do that, which would have contributed very much to adult education. The Christian People’s Party supports the proposal to ask the government to draw up a national cross-ministerial plan for adult learning to make visible and provide better provision of relevant and good continuing training. When I hear the reasons why the government partners – and also the Right – do not support this, that they do not think this proposal was streamlined enough or used the right concepts, I might have wished that the government parties would then have made some proposals to change this proposal, if there were a few words in the proposal that you did not like. The theme is too important for this to be stopped by a disagreement that might have been resolved, because I think there is so much in common from the entire Committee on the importance of this field. We agree with the proposers that better and simpler transfers between different learning venues need to be facilitated. A national lifelong learning strategy, even if one had removed some of the words in the proposal, will be able to show how formal and informal courses of education can work together in the best possible way. In this way, we will be stressed that both are important instruments, and that they together constitute an integrated whole in lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e245	First, I would like to thank the proposers for putting adult learning on the agenda. This is a very important topic, and it deserves much greater attention in the political debate than it has so far received, and the proposal is a contribution to getting such attention. Now, as many speakers have spoken, adults are very different. It's a very heterogeneous group we're talking about. What characterizes adult education is the Matthew effect, more than in any other field of education: those who have, get, and those who have nothing, don't get. It may have been a bit freely translated from Matthew, but Dagrun Eriksen takes it in a good mood, President, so I expect it to pass! So there is a very big difference – those who have a lot of education in the past are those who demand much further education. 90,000 students in adult universities and colleges take courses in addition to what they already have. That's the big picture. That's why it's quite demanding to create a common overview that we're going to have updated at all times, so that it actually matches what's in the picture, which is going to hit such a diverse group. I am most concerned about the adults who have not received any particular part of the educational goods from before. There are quite a few adults who have bad experiences from their own schooling, and of course they don't get trumpet music in the chest of drawers of the idea of getting back on the school bench. Many of them need to formalise their real skills and to have the opportunity to gain more. We have started an information work on the rights of adults to the municipalities under the direction of the Education Directorate. In this context, it also points to the information needs of users. We have made it clear that adults are entitled to primary education. We have established that an adult can choose either to take full primary education, part of a course or only training in basic skills. The Ministry of Knowledge stimulates adult education through considerable funding for online schools and student associations, which provide mainly different types of training and informal training for adults. In order to stimulate training in basic skills for adults, we have made a strong contribution to the Programme of Basic Competence in Work – BKA – which has been attended by several speakers. During this period of government, the programme has been strengthened from 14.5 million. SEK in 2006 to 90 million. kr for the current year. An analysis has been made of this offer from Proba social analysis, and although we are going to take some of the conclusions a little small – what to say – bombastically and not too generalise, we see that employers report back that the employees make a better job printer and reader more and better have gained greater confidence, which is a very important point having more opportunity to take professional letters or other training get new jobs 60 pst. Of the companies involved, they said that they would not have started this without BKA support. I've met many of the adults who have taken advantage of these offers, and for various reasons, I may need to update their high school skills and basic skills. They're very brave people, they're perhaps some of the bravest things we have in the education system, because they have to admit to themselves and others that they read, write and count too badly. But it's also very amazing stories, because there are now other ways of teaching dyslexics to read, for example, or those who struggle with mathematics, to figure it out, about how adults who have felt stupid while they went to school, now through other methods have been able to prove that they have as good skills as most others. Today, job seekers have limited opportunities to take formal secondary education when unemployed. This is a cross of thought when approx. half of the unemployed do not have secondary education. At the same time, there is a great need for skilled labour in Norwegian society. Calculations made by HEALTH MOD show, among others: there will be a significant shortage of health professionals in the period up to 2030. The under-coverage is intended to be between 28000 and 52000 annual works. The numbers show that you're a long way away from reaching that goal. So we've started two attempts, which I can certainly get back to in the line change, if I dare to challenge the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e285	Then it opens for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e289	How was this game last night? Was this where I was supposed to stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e294	Reverse speaker's chair, councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e297	I haven't become a state council yet, so I think I'm staying on this side! It is positive that the Council of State shares the same view and is in favour of adult education, and is clear that she sees the need for it. But then to the question. In Soria Moria II, among other things, it says: on lifelong learning: ‘Continued training is one of the most important tools we have to qualify people for a constantly changing professional life, both in structure and in working methods.’ That's where we agree. The Government promises to ‘enhance information work so that more people are familiar with their opportunities for continuing training’ and to ‘increase public support for adult education’. It is pointed out from several quarters that the possibility of adult education is difficult to find out, and too little is known. The proposal in this case is to strengthen information on the opportunities that adults have and to make the various offers better known. The question is, has the government fulfilled its promise of its goal at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e311	As I have already mentioned, the Education Directorate has started an information work on adult rights to municipalities. In addition, we have established career centres in almost all counties, which are someplace adults can visit and get a good overview of what kind of opportunities exist locally, because that is a very diverse and complex overview. What I think is the intention of the proposers, is not to drive information about everything that is available at universities and universities, because there's kind of a world there. But what I think is the intention of the proposers is that those who haven't had so much access to education should be able to make better use of the systems. I believe that the career guidance centres are a very good response.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e318	In a later article, I want to come back with what the Progress Party believes in the R & D sector. I'm a little surprised that the Council of State hasn't got into it. The next question is that the number of persons on disability benefits has increased steadily for a number of years. Many people have pointed out that a large proportion of these are actually able to work, and they do not want to work at all. But they often lack the skills they need in today's labour market. Closer cooperation between adult training actors and the Nav offices is likely to lead to better and more market-oriented learning and better follow-up of those in the Nav system. Will the government support the initiative for better coordination between adult education actors, the labour market and the Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e327	It gives me the opportunity to get back to some of the trials we're having in this field. Today, there are restrictions as to which jobseekers can accept the offer when they go on a day-to-day basis. In four counties, we now have attempts – in cooperation with Nav and the county councils – to allow the unemployed to take formal education during the day-to-day period. I think that is a very important response to exactly what Mr Thorsen has to say. I've read the proposal well, because I'm very concerned with adult education, but I see that the greatest information need isn't about informing about all the offers available at universities and colleges, because they find people in, but it's about informing about exactly what's at the intersection between Nav, County Municipality and volunteers. That's why career centres, as we have in 14 counties, are a very good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e334	This with the relationship between real and formal competence is probably very central in this debate. I have read in the answer from the Council of State to the Committee on this matter that the Directorate of Education will develop national guidelines on real-life skills. It's probably a very good move. In addition, an evaluation of the BKA is being carried out. A national unit for career guidance has been established and an agreement has been made on statistical work and projections of future skills needs, etc. in the case of adult training. All these measures at least give us the impression that there is a lot going on in this field. The question to the Council of State will then be: at what time will it be natural to respond to the proposals made by the proposers in this matter? How does the Council of State see the possibility of reforming – if necessary – this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e343	I hope that we can get experience from the trials we have been going on – one of which I have already had – but we also have experiments with advanced training at the workplace for the health and care sector and the kindergarten sector in five different states. There is a thought of extending the BKA to include further education. The representative of Warloe is quite right that real competence assessment is very important, and the Education Directorate is in the process of completing national guidelines in this area, because what concerns us is that the level of real competence assessment has fallen. I think it's very important, because it builds bridges between education and working life and is an important starting point for adults who want to fill up with further education. I believe that we have a good system of information for adults through the career centres, and it is also quite right that we now have a national unit in Vox, which should support it. We then start from the different trials and paths and make sure that the career centres have a good overview, so that those who turn to it can get it there. I think that's the part of what's most important that we have good information about to the user.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e352	I can reassure the Council of State that it was a kind and good version of the Matthew effect. It's probably a little bit of an SV-ish. It's probably a little bit harder than it actually has, because it says, well, whoever has, it's going to get, and it's in abundance. But whoever doesn't has to be taken away even what he has. That's probably the brutal effect of the Matthew effect, and it was probably the one that made me think I could take a line. I know that the council and I are equally concerned about the drop-out in high school. We have youth coal as ports outside. There is today an offer – adults without rights – in some private schools, for which the Christian People's Party and the government have set up a framework in the new private school law, and which works. They have a higher search rate than they can afford. My challenge to the Council of State in this matter is: Do you have a desire to go through at least that, to see if the need is actually being met, or if it would have been smart to give some more places that could offer this within the private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e359	I think I'm just saying that I'm taking that challenge further, because it's multiplicity, the offer that is for adults, and it has to be multiplicity, because adults are so different. The private schools provide a good addition to the offers available to adults today. Parts of the voluntary sector do the same. Here it's about being flexible when we think about solutions. I want to tell you a few more things. One is that we are now researching adult learning, because it is not necessarily the same kind of pedagogy that is most effective for adults, and it is also important that we draw lessons from it. In cooperation with the OECD, we are going to link ourselves to this Skills Strategy, which is about adult learning, where we, among other things. can get external help to discuss and analyse our own skills needs in the future, and how we can harness the competences of the adult population in the further development of society. It's also a very interesting arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e368	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e372	I feel a need to bring something about clarification in this matter, because here it is clear that we have spoken past each other and misunderstood. Then it is a little silly that it has not been contacted, so that we could have a dialogue and come to an agreement and understanding. It is quite right, as all those who have spoken in this matter have said, that this is complex – it is a terribly difficult area. I can't believe it's a big fan. At the same time, there are an incredible number of adult education providers, and we should be happy about that. But today, in fact, the providers of adult education want to cooperate more closely. To this end, they need national coordination in this area so that it can be organised in the best possible way. With regard to whom this should be addressed, the Council of State points out that it is probably for those with little education. We live in a global world, and we don't sit on our own and decide how the work is to be done. They actually change month by month and day by day. This applies in all sectors – whether you have higher education or minimal education. That is why this is far off – it must be absolutely everyone if we are to follow along in the world. That's how it's now, and it doesn't make sense to think that we can sit and don't care about it. This applies to the highest level both those with low levels of education and those with a previous higher level of education. Today, it's also that you don't actually have to be on campus to take a higher education. You can sit on the outermost naked island as long as you have power. Here, we need to coordinate what is available and get a good overview of it, so that those who are not in daily contact with, for example, the drug problem. the training offices or other information providers have the possibility to find out in a simple and straightforward way, such as through the Internet. or printed information. Everybody doesn't actually use the Internet today either, so sometimes there is a need for a piece of paper. All in all, I do feel that the various parties agree, and then I hope that during the debate we have managed to clear something up, and that there is no merit in the matter. In conclusion, I would like to say that the BKA is very good, but when they are finished with basic competence, they hopefully need further training in retrospect, and we have to make sure that it can be a comprehensive education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e385	We like to harness ourselves to give better information about the different offers available for adults, but to have the ambition to create a plan that gives an overview of everything that exists, I think is far too extensive to promise, and provides a starting point for bureaucracy that we're not served with. But the intention that Thorsen here brings up, of course, we're going to follow up by doing the best information we can to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e390	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e404	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e413	The centre party is pleased that we have a preliminary debate on the fragmentation of Vg1 occupation in Stortinget. The centre party has addressed this earlier, and as the proposers know, the government announced to the Minister of Knowledge in our big message with a review of the Knowledge promise with emphasis on the professional subjects. Both the structure and content of Vg1 shall be considered and discussed here. I regret that the representatives of the Progress Party do not think it is natural to consider the proposal in the context of this report, but I am pleased that the rest of the Committee considers it sensible to discuss the issue in a context when we are undergoing advanced training. As the representatives probably noticed in last year's persuasion debate, the Central Party raised the need for a separate communication on the professional subjects. We are therefore very pleased that we are now receiving a big message that will take care of it, among other things. vocational training. I think it's important that we don't think about revolutionizing the professions, but we have to adjust to what we see isn't working well enough today. Therefore, a fragmentation of some Vg1 courses will be considered naturally in the message. Today’s model may be good for individual studies, but it does not work well enough for others. The Committee has shown possible examples in the vote. It has always been a challenge to find the right balance point on Vg1 between the degree of specialisation and the need to ensure recruitment through broad courses that qualify for more than one education. An overall committee is concerned about whether the students get enough time for the depression they have chosen before they come out as apprentices. At the same time, a Joint Committee is committed to continuing vocational and vocational training to provide insights into different professions and disciplines, in order to give students the best possible starting point for further specialisation. The entire Committee also considers that the Community disciplines must be practical and professional in order to be seen as relevant. So we don't need less theory, but right theory, and education that educates young people for the business they need, and that society needs. In addition to pointing to challenges related to the structure of vocational training itself, an overall committee emphasises that legislation does not prevent the use of more flexible training courses, such as: that some students can start directly in business after high school. My opinion is that the flexibility provided by the law is not well known to the students and to those who will advise the students – parents, teachers and the counselling service. Here I think the county councils as school owners and the individual schools should be better able to facilitate the achievement of the goal of final competence in different ways. The centre party is committed to a broad discussion on the challenges facing professionals prior to the Storing Message. The fact that we cross-politically break our minds on which way to go before the enlargement message is completed is considered to be good – not because the government does not know where it will, but because a comprehensive School Norway needs predictability for the future school, so that one does not have to constantly look at new measures just to find new ones. Finally, I want to repeat something I have said many times before: it takes time to change attitudes and introduce a new reform. The first six-year-olds who started after the reform of the promise of knowledge do not go out in 10th grade until 2016. They're not finished until 2019, and we can't count if they've completed high school within five years, until 2021. Things take time! So we're going to make the changes we have to make. Then we have to go through all of the Vg1 courses and see the whole thing. The Centre Party has a great deal of understanding for those professional groups that want more qualified apprentices than they are in many cases currently receiving. This is why, for example: very important that representatives of the different professional groups sit in the technical councils to advise on what should be learned in the respective disciplines. I'm glad that an overall committee understands that there must be some kind of breadth in the basic courses. Norway is so interconnected that there can be a long way between the houses and at least quite a long way between each high school. This means that not everyone can have the same wide range of offers. Therefore, it is very important that we introduce students to different professions by choosing the different Vg1 courses. I hope for a good debate and more good input into how to improve vocational and vocational training in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e449	We in the Progress Party believe that the notified message is incredibly good. I think we're all looking forward to the message that's coming, and I'm interested in seeing what's standing there. At the same time, we believe it is important to have a debate in advance of this message. We are also concerned about taking the feedback and signals we have received, seriously, that there is a strong need to go through vocational training as it is today. That is precisely why we have chosen to promote these proposals: to take the signals we have received seriously and to realise that the necessary action in vocational training needs to be taken and that they need to be taken quickly. I'm glad that the Center Party here announces that they are positive to a possible fragmentation of Vg1. We hope that in the debate after the message we can look at the solution that we in the Progress Party here outline in our proposal for a representative. The reason why we choose to raise this up and know that this is the way to go is that Norway is dependent on a skilled and competent workforce, and the skilled workers are an essential resource in our society. We depend on them, both today and for the future. Then we can't sit still and look at the situation we have today, and as we've seen year after year, with so much disqualification in vocational training. There's a clear need to do something about this. We don't have time to wait any longer, because the resources we miss there are too many, and the measures that come from the government are too late. We in the Progress Party fully agree with what the NHO President said, namely that it reaches 45 pst. of the school does not conduct the vocational schooling, they do so with talent and opportunities. That's why we don't have time to wait for the government, because we can't afford to lose a single good union worker. Perhaps the biggest challenge for the professions is non-response. A little under a month ago, we were in the Committee on Travel in the United States. There it was said something that I think several of us bit us notice. They said that a problem that doesn't have a solution is not a problem, it's a fact. But I believe that this problem has a clear solution that we in the Progress Party here outlines possible measures in relation to. Much of the challenge today, which is pointed out by several teams, is that we have far too broad a study programme. Take, for example: food and restaurant subjects: students must go through everything: pastry, meat cutting, baking, nutrition, etc. You can start the school day by cutting up ribs, then decorating wedding cakes, then going over to prepare narrow courts, and then finishing the day with the yeast learning. There are far too wide educational programmes, which make there become too much or too little knowledge of each part, instead of giving students the opportunity to get into one discipline, or fewer disciplines, and to learn it properly. All-round competence is important, but for future skilled workers who have already made a professional choice and who have already decided on what to work with – the statistics for the professional sector unfortunately show that more people are struggling with, for example: Motivation — it is more important to be allowed to focus on what you actually want to focus on. The main objective of vocational training must be to train the student in the chosen field of study and his/her subject. This should start as early as possible. Then we get a greater degree of professional concentration, where the motivation for the student is also strengthened. At the same time, we know that we are struggling to get enough apprenticeships for our apprentices in vocational training. A little bit of a reason for what several companies point to is that the apprentices are too little aware of the subject area in which they are going to learn. A peak of the first year with a higher professional concentration will make these students better equipped to get out and get apprenticeship space, and also to enter the labour market. At the same time, it will also help to raise the status of the professions in the longer term, precisely because of the improvement in vocational training professionals. Another important element is a greater correcting of the practice of the common subjects, which we have raised in our proposal. We see that many of the students in professional studies are often more practical than theoretical ones. It's an incredibly positive and good resource that we have to take advantage of. They must have the opportunity to use their practical abilities and skills to unfold, including in the common subjects. It's not about deprioritising theory or having less theory, but it's about a more practical approach to the theory and the common subjects they're actually going to have. Take, for example: English: The fact that a car mechanic can get English user manuals to learn the English language, etc. Let one thing be clear: we in the Advancement Party are not calling for the removal of the theory from vocational training. No one will. We have pride in Norway to have good, good and skilled skilled workers, who not only know their skills but also have all-round competence. What is incredibly good in our labour market is that we have a shorter socio-cultural distance between professional workers, and for example. engineers. There are jobs where carpenters, masons, engineers, architects, etc. speaks the same language and has a good interaction. That's something we should value, and something we should go on. The competence and knowledge of skilled workers shall not be reduced. We must remember that we are training the labour force not only for today, but also for the future. It is then important to have cognitive skills in place, including among professional students, so that they are better equipped to meet tomorrow's labour market and any changes. Our second proposal is to focus the theory more on the disciplines and make it more relevant. It will, as I said, also improve the motivation and improve the level of implementation of the vocational pupils. Once again, we in the Progress Party will underline the importance of investing in good, knowledge-rich and skilled skilled workers. We have a great need for them both today and in the future. Then we can't be familiar with the big dropout we have today. We are pleased that there is a message coming, but we believe that some measures are important enough and clear enough as to what is right to do, so that we can actually do it today. That is why we choose to present the proposals that are distributed to the representatives here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e479	The representative Mette Hanekamhaug has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e482	I'm recording that the technology isn't standing at the president's table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e487	It was the president who blinked at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e490	Just to start with one of the last ones: the committee was traveling, as the representative Hanekamhaug said, and then we visited, among other things. Google. I chose to use that service yesterday, and then I applied for the words ‘FrP’ and ‘professional’. It states: ‘The extent of theoretical knowledge instruction in a professional field should be reduced’. It's a little in conflict with the representative that Hanekamhaug now took up from the pulpit. Like others, I think this is an important topic. I'm burning for it, and I believe that trying to get more people to implement is incredibly important both for the individual and for Norway as a nation. I am also willing to discuss whether there is a need to do something with the Vg1 device if there is a need to eat more – let more work with what they are interested in. But we also see that many things to do within today's models, and that it might be more about access than about evil will. For example, in Oslo, Hellerud and Sogn work together on plumbing and construction. The built-in rivers get to be more on Hellerud, and the people who are interested in it get to be more on Sogn – and then you can solve it that way. Provision is made for vocational training in the Community. The common subjects are professional in the regulations, and that is one of the things I am pleased that this government has done. Now we're also adding to the state budget that we're going to get a hospitation plan. This means that joint trainers can get into businesses and be allowed to see how, for example: an electrician works – see what you have to figure out and think about in a day’s time, and by doing it, you can connect the more theoretical math problems to what you’re actually challenged into in everyday life. Here the proposers draw up a proposal for vocational training. The representative Hanekamhaug refers to this NHO conference ‘Professional 2012’. There was also the district councillor, Halvorsen. Now I'm not saying this just to boast of my own government council or government, but I actually think that the post that the Council of State held there was very good. It was an adequate article for the topic, where she went through a lot of dilemmas and issues related to professionalism. It was also announced that these were things that would be discussed in the message, which should probably come to Stortinget after Christmas. For me, it is a little strange that the Stortinget should be forced to address individual questions – in a whole that is so important and interwoven with regard to the device in a professional field. It may seem that making proposals in the UK and offering an invitation to the legislative power in the country is almost just an invitation to debate. This isn't a conference room where we just make suggestions because we think it's interesting to debate a little. The majority has stated in its Rules of Procedure that it is possible to take up interviews in order to discuss issues that seem to be important. And with all due respect to notifying the proposers: I think that if you are committed to doing something to improve the implementation in the professional field, at least you owe it to the students and the apprentices to see the course and schooling they have, in a whole, just as we are to do in the evaluation of the Knowledge promise, where you have notified that there should be a particular focus on professional subjects. I do not reject any of these proposals, but I welcome the big message that will come. I am delighted to be allowed to discuss this in a slightly more intelligent way than with just one proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e509	The proponents of the Progress Party address key issues related to vocational training. The question is how best to design education to meet the students at home as early as the first year in the professional field. It is a problem that also concerns the Right, and that was the background to several of the proposals that we promoted in the winter of 2010, when we presented our profession. The professional field is undoubtedly demanding because the apprenticeships are so different, and it is obviously not so easy to find a structure that is equally suitable for all subjects. The criticism of Reform 94 was that the basic courses had too much specialisation and closed for many doors in the following years. The Councils when the Knowledge Promise was developed were, therefore, to simplify the supply structure and to increase students’ choices for the second year in the professional field. Students who were insecure and chose the wrong basic course under Reform 94 experienced having to start all over again and go back to school again. Thus, the students also risked that they had used up their rights before they had completed the training. It couldn't go on like that. The Committee agrees that it is a difficult exercise to find the right balance between the degree of specialisation and the need to ensure wide-ranging recruitment. However, feedback from professionals following the Knowledge promise suggests that some inputs have become too wide. Students who are reasonably safe in their choice of education feel that they spend a lot of time in different disciplines, rather than being allowed to deepen in what they actually want to learn. At the same time, we hear from several professional organisations that they regret late specialisation and that the students are not as well prepared for apprenticeship as the companies would like. The right considers it important to take such feedback seriously and to make the necessary adjustments to enable vocational training to meet the expectations of both pupils and apprentices more fully. The motivation of the students is an incredibly important driver for successfully completing the training. Well-prepared apprentices are also important for more enterprises to be positive in the future to take on the role of apprenticeships. In the opinion of the Right, training that both parties perceive as better and more appropriate will also help to improve the reputation of the professions and raise the status of vocational training. It is positive that there is a full consensus that common subjects need to be practical and vocational in order to be seen as more relevant. Even with the amendments adopted, the Right’s view is that there is still a significant potential for more professional correction of vocational training. The exchange model adopted for the health profession may be tested in other disciplines for the benefit of the health worker. It must be an objective for many more counties and schools to establish regular accommodation arrangements for teachers and instructors and to make use of the Lecturer 2 scheme, in order to ensure close contact with a rapidly changing working life. These measures are of particular value in the field of vocational training, because they can make training much more realistic and involve pupils. It is also important to stress from the Right that, in addition to professional correction, changes in the structure itself must be considered to facilitate the introduction of specialisation in the subject in the first year by students who are safe in their choice of education. The experience gained from the promise of knowledge shows that greater flexibility is needed in the professional fields and that this consideration must be emphasised in the announced review of the entire structure of the vocational-specialisation study programmes. The aim of the promise of knowledge has been to increase students’ learning outcomes throughout the school cycle — including in the professional field. Making adjustments which mean that professionals are given the opportunity to improve their skills and that students are better prepared to cope with the work to receive them is, in the Right's view, creating a win-win situation, with more motivated pupils and apprentices and with enterprises that find it more attractive to receive apprentices. The need for skilled labour is high in a number of sectors. That is why, in the opinion of the Right, it is also essential to find good training models that work well, primarily for the benefit of the student and the apprentice, but also for the working life and for society, which depend entirely on good access to skilled labour in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e530	It's time to ask ourselves if the width that was created through Reform 94 is actually the right one, if we took too much Møller's tran, if the tip was too small, and if the width was too large. We in the Christian People's Party do not rule out that it may be right to go for an apex of knowledge from the first year of advanced vocational education. However, it has proved to be a challenge, as several have pointed out here, to find a proper balance between the degree of specialisation and the need to ensure the recruitment through broad courses that qualify for more than one education. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to wait for the notified wholesale message, where a review and assessment of the structure and content of Vg1 will be included. The fight against high school dropout is the most important fight we have. I wonder sometimes about the government's words, and perhaps the lack of actions and contexts, in this matter. In the setting, government parties say that: ‘The government has launched a number of measures to combat non-response. As an example, school days have been extended and hours of primary education have been strengthened to provide students with good basic skills from primary school.’ Let me ask you again: what research can the government point to that says that more hours give less disqualification? I just have to assume that the government actually believes that several hours for the smallest, counteracts non-response, but I haven't heard yet, after the government started its billion bet in several hours in 2006, a single research justification that several hours actually have this effect. The Christian People's Party is – I don't think it's unknown for this room – every now and then dissenting about expanding school day at the nursery is an action that counteracts high school dropout. We believe that in recent years the government has consistently prioritised errors by spending billions on several lessons for the very least, and that this has been at the expense of efforts to combat high school drop-outs. Just think of how much money we had that could have been spent on more teachers, on the continuing training of teachers, on a more practical way of teaching at youth level and on other measures against apostasy, if the government had put aside the dream of the whole-day school. A recent example of the government’s ability to prioritise was given to us in the state budget. In the Yellow Book, where the government itself is presenting the investments in higher education, it says that you want to spend 74 million dollars. kr for the introduction of one week of cultural school activities during the SFO period. I could have had a lot to say about that proposal, but I'm going to save it for the budget. My point here is about priority. Twenty million. kr plus is the strengthening of the fight against non-response in professional studies. There is enough evidence of a 'hang-up' at all-day school, which undoubtedly means that we have more young people dropping out of school today than we would have had with a different policy. We want a new school policy course, where, instead of hours, more and even better teachers, a better high school and a fight against high school drop-outs. There is a clear policy that will have an impact in school. These words I want to include in the further work with high school, and the Christian People's Party will help to be constructive when the message comes, but we think it's too early to go for an overall assessment of whether or not this should actually be pointed at. We need more knowledge before we change high school that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e548	The proposal we have before us, and the submissions that come from the Chamber today, I take with me when we prepare this big message that will go through, among other things. the structure of the professions. Many of the issues that have already arisen in this discussion are important, but there are also a few more. After all, we have an extensive commitment to combating high school drop-outs. New GIV is at 185 million. kr per year, and is a bet of €0.5 billion. kr over a three-year period. But now we have a lot of up-to-date research on the promise of knowledge, and that is, of course, the starting point for the discussion we're going to have, and the big message we're going to give. One of the important research findings, which emphasizes to the extent that we have already seen, is the following: there is a close link between the characteristics of the students at the end of high school and the lack of secondary education. This means that reading, writing and billing training — the knowledge that students bring into higher education — is crucial to their success. Then we have to look at the whole educational process. Of course, it's very important what we're doing now to reform high school and work more practical and relevant there, but the few problems that students have in school start in high school or in high school. This is why we have increased the number of hours also in primary school, namely that reading, writing and billing – these basic skills – should be good, that we should make extensive efforts early, and that the students should be well-equipped. So some of the issues that are directly affected here. One issue has been throughout the discussion on vocational training: how broad, where at the end of the day? Before Reform 94, we had 109 different subjects. Then the dilemma was that you specialized so early that you lost a lot of people, just because you specialized too early. Then, in Reform 94, we carried out a – what to say – aggregation, which gave us 13 different basic courses. The level of knowledge has further reduced this structure. But what's a big dilemma if we can't find the right balance in this is that we can get a challenge in recruiting for different professions. So it's probably a lot of people who think in that discussion that a lot of people who start at Vg1 have really decided what they're already going to be. But now we have new research that shows that two out of three of the students starting at Vg1 are very uncertain about what to choose. That's why it's important -- this is a 2011 NIFU survey from five states, but it gives a hint that this is a slightly different issue than many think -- that we can both introduce these 15 to 16-year-olds for different professions because they haven't made up their minds, and that we can also provide the opportunity for those who have decided. So here's a lot of problems along the way. It is also essential that we be able to use the possibilities that are already in the upper-cycle to make more flexible runs than the 2+2 system. But there is also a problem with regard to the big business report if we should encourage more flexibility, and not least if we should perhaps look at some of the more than 200 professional subjects we have, with slightly different eyes. Here it's not necessarily like we're all going to have them all in one form. Then there's another problem, and that's that very many of those who choose to build -- who have grown enormously around the counties -- have made their own run through high school with a combination of theory and practice, because when we ask the students, it's under 10 pst. by those who are on the ground because they have not been given apprenticeship. They go there because they want to be able to study, and they start professionally because they want a little more practical training. So there's also an important issue in that discussion. So, in the meantime, before we take the big grips on structure. New GIV means that we now have schools in each state that are resource schools for all the schools, where the teachers are released in 25 pst. to work more on the professional correction of English, Norwegian and mathematics in the professions. They also build networks and inspire each other to do this. In the State budget, there is also the possibility for vocational teachers to be hospiced and refilled in terms of how they can pursue their professional careers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e567	I am extremely pleased with what the Council of State says about taking the signals from the debate further into the reporting process. But as the Council itself points out in its article, this is something that has been discussed for a long time — for many, many years. We see that the dropout in high school does not go down, and that there is a need to do something faster. Many of the signals received from outside are precisely that education programmes are too wide. Some have up to 50–60 subjects to be covered by students within the first year. There is an almost collective trade union — and some of those in school — who point out that just what this proposal outlines is the way to go. My question to the Council of State is then: Why do we have to wait to take the steps – as we know will work, as we know will help – all the time this is an urgent question that needs to be resolved as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e576	That's because we get very different opinions from different subjects. Some people want more specialization early, some people are happy with the model they have. When we also have studies that show that as many as two out of three of those starting on Vg1 are actually not sure which way to go, it is important that they get some different introductions to different professions in Vg1. That's exactly what we're going to sum up when we make a new big message about this that goes on structure. In the meantime, work is now being done in all counties and everywhere to provide vocational training more precisely to work more practically and varied with theory, which has been discussed by several speakers. So we're already doing that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e581	That's good. But when it comes to getting insights into the different professions, it will just work against its purpose where there are too many subjects. The representative, Wickholm, spoke warmly about the hospitation system that is now going to come into force, which we think is very good. I assume that the Council of State also supports this hospitation scheme. But we in the Progress Party actually proposed in June 2010 to establish such a housing scheme, which the government then voted against. My question is simply: what major changes have been made in the last two years that have changed the resistance to our hospice proposal, so that we have a positive attitude to it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e590	We are already in the process of hospitating several places, and we will strengthen it in the budget now for next year. I've suggested it to Stortinget, so there's nothing wrong with us agreeing on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e595	Several have been involved in this in their speeches, and the Council of State also commented that different subjects and industries have different needs in terms of how much specialisation they should be and how well apprentices should be prepared when they learn. So my specific question to the Council of State is, with what we now know, and with the different needs that are, has there perhaps become too much uniformity and coercion in the professional part of higher education? The fact is that there is a difference between professional and study specialisation, but there are probably greater differences within the profession than there are between the two main courses. Is it clear, then, that we need to straighten out, so that we can accept more flexibility and more different entrances and widths in the professional field than we've had at the moment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e604	I think that's a very correct observation. The professions are very different, and it's possible to think a little bit more tailor-made about the professions we have. I have set up my own working group, where the social partners through the Vocational Training Cooperation Council and the County Municipality are just involved in discussing how we should manage to find the right balance, because here it is very important that we do it together with the different interests involved. Then we have another problem, which comes to my attention more clearly when we get updated on new research. That's how we're going to be able to combine vocational training and study skills. It is quite obvious that many more students than before have tried to make a run through higher education with a better mix of both professional correction and study skills than what we have in place today in the structure. Build-up, as it works today, there's an incredible number of students who are fighting, and it's very large in scope. This will also be an important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e611	It's here shown that there's a lot of exciting going on around in different states. I feel that this is a bit of the challenge for students today. They are given which state they actually live in, and the creativity or lack of creativity that may be some places. My question to the Council of State is: how, with the review you are now facing, and with the big message to be written, can you ensure a greater level of similarity in the offer given to the students? I know, for example. to Troms, where a course in scaffolding has been taken in construction so that the apprentices there are even more attractive in meeting the apprenticeships. There is one example of a twist in order to increase the interest of both students and apprentices. But that offer is not given in Finnmark, or in Nordland, for that matter. The question is, how can you ensure that good ideas become more similar practices across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e620	This is a very important and interesting problem and a very big dilemma. It is clear that if we, for example, decide that we need to eat more in some areas, it may be quite difficult to keep such pointed offers in some districts. Maybe it has to be possible to imagine greater variations, greater breadth, in some offerings in the districts, because otherwise we force a lot of students to move on the hives earlier than they might have thought, and more piercing where there is a larger student base. There's one possibility. It does not solve the dilemma that the representative Aspaker is addressing now, with a wish for a – what to say – equal level of content in the offers. I think we'll come back to all of these issues. It is possible to think more tailor-made around trades, and it is possible to think more tailor-made around models that fit in urban and district areas. I just want to invite you to that discussion. It will be a very important matter for Stortinget to deal with in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e627	I don't think you should be so concerned that everything should be done the same everywhere, but that you actually find good solutions to the different things. My high school experience is that you develop a subject based on which student group you have in front of you. Running the history of goldsmiths can be quite exciting. Driving the history of hairdressers can also be very exciting. But driving history for hairdressers and goldsmiths is actually quite difficult, being able to develop a special angle on the history subject that allows both groups to develop a certain professional joy and pride over their own subject also associated with other subjects. My question is, are we able to break this up so that you can give teachers the opportunity to have such a specific part of the public sector in a way that makes it much more exciting for the profession as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e640	We've gone through the curricula, and that's – what to say – a good opportunity to eat and think in different professions, including in the community. There's some of what you're currently doing at these node schools -- lighthouse schools we call them -- around all the counties. Of course, there is a need to fill in when you become as specialised as you are in the goldsmith or hairdressing trade. I think it also has a lot to do with professional pride, to know the story of his own profession. So here it might well be so important to be able to exploit the networks that we are now building, inspiring each other and facilitating history in such a context. Otherwise, I can inform the Committee and the Storting that there has recently been EuroSkills, i.e. European competition in the professional sector, in Belgium this weekend, and Norway took three medals. We took gold in medicine, we took a silver medal in the subject of prescription, and we took a bronze medal in mecatonics. Here we have very good ambassadors for vocational training. They are now meeting at the Norway Championship at Lillestrøm at the end of this month. If any of the members of the committee or anyone else on the Storting really want to experience something that's fun, it's just to follow what these competitions are like, because that's to show you what you're doing in practice. I also think a lot of teachers might be inspired about how to connect the common subjects more easily when you see that learning, the joy and the pride of presenting their subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e647	The debate was then closed – with overtime medals. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e663	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e672	Scientific research shows us the experience-based knowledge has told us for many years: the most important thing for the student's learning is the teacher. A lot of good enough teachers are the most important thing to create a good school. It is therefore good that Norway has a high proportion of teachers in school with approved competence for education. The challenge is, as the proposers point out, that there are still temporary staff without teaching skills in teaching positions. The government has for a long time taken this challenge seriously and is working to reduce this number and increase the proportion of teachers with approved education skills. It is the responsibility of the school owner to ensure that they have the right and necessary skills in their schools, as stated in the Training Act. It implies that they are responsible for assigning approved teachers. In the spring of 2012, the Storting examined legislative proposals to introduce requirements for relevant professional competence to teach in some disciplines. In this way, the state ensures that school owners assign teachers with a high level of competence to meet the demands of the future. The new primary school teacher training will ensure that newly-trained teachers will have the competence to meet the new requirements. For schools which are unable to add persons who meet the competence requirements for addition, provision has been made for the temporary addition of non-compliant persons. If temporary staff wish to become teachers, they must follow normal or adapted training courses for teacher training. It is also important to point out that there is no capacity available for teacher training today if temporary staff wish to train as teachers. When school owners use temporary staff, this is often due to the lack of qualified teachers. To meet that deficiency, we have launched the GNIST effort to get more and better teachers. There is national cooperation between the municipal sector, teacher organisations, school leaders, universities, colleges and state education authorities. The GNIST partnership aims to increase the status of teachers and recruit more good teachers for the future. The ‘Do you have it in you?’ campaign, which started in 2009, has been a success. In 2012 it is over 50 pst. more people who want to train as teachers than it was in 2008. This is the key measure to reduce the number of non-qualified students in school. School owners have, as mentioned, the primary responsibility for the organisation of schools, the recruitment and development of teachers, and thus have a very central role in GNIST. The emphasis on continuing education is the country's contribution to the school owners in order to speed up the achievement of the standard of competence that teachers should have in the teaching subjects. In the autumn of 2011, the Ministry of Knowledge, the KS and the employee organisations agreed on a new agreement for the allocation of costs of incubators. As of August 2012, the State covers 50 pst. The municipalities and the teachers' share is 25 pst. The government finances the costs of the study places, while the school owners cover the costs of teaching material, travel, etc. The aim of the new agreement is to increase the participation of municipalities. The number of teachers has increased from about 1,500 to over 1,800 as a result of the change. Summary: We will continue to focus on recruiting students for high-quality teacher training and developing teachers' skills. We will continue to give priority to the recruitment of GNIST and to ensure good quality in teacher training, and we will focus on continuing training for teachers in line with «Quality Competence». In addition, the government through the surveys will provide an overview of how the school owners will maintain their skills and motivate the municipalities and county councils to take their responsibility for having a highly qualified teaching staff. I don't have much experience in the field of education, but I think the same is true in the field of education as in many other areas, that if you get something to work hard, it's an isolated point that you don't come up with new things every six months. The measures taken to meet the challenges agreed between the proposers and the government must be able to work if the results are to be achieved in schools. With that, I would recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e693	The representative, Mr Sørensen, then recommended the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e696	I believe that all the intentions of the proposal presented are shared. This is not a strange phenomenon. This is a matter that most countries are discussing, i.e. the subject of the teacher’s professional and pedagogical competence. It is also the case that in all countries there is a great difference in the performance of students from school to school. And so is Norway. It's serious, but it's so serious that there's so much difference in the performance of the students from classrooms to classrooms. What does that tell us? Well, it tells us that there's a big difference in competence between the teachers. Today, we have a solid tribe of teachers in the school with a good education, which therefore has an approved competence for education, but we also have many temporarily enrolled in the school without a necessary teacher's competence in the teaching position. Many of them do a good job, of course, but it is a desire to get the most to have an approved teacher education at the bottom. This is a bit of a background for the government to put forward a bill recently to introduce a requirement for relevant professional competence in order to be able to teach in a subject. In the bill submitted, it is announced that the changes will require 60 relevant study credits to teach in most subjects at secondary school. The same point requirement will apply to teaching in Norwegian/Samian, mathematics and English at the youth school. For most other subjects in the youth school and in Norwegian/Samian and mathematics at kindergarten, the requirement is 30 points of study. This requirement shall not apply to current teachers who have a previous education. This ratio is specified in a rule which is heard by a certain user. When it comes to today's system, it's not that one is without any kind of control of the problem. The rules of competence are currently linked to being assigned to a teaching position — whether or not one has the necessary relevant, professional and pedagogical competence. This is, of course, the school owner who is responsible for it. The point is that competence needs to be adapted to local needs. The national responsibility lies with continuing training, which should help teachers to achieve the required skills in the subjects in which they are required to teach. In the state budget, presented yesterday, there was also a clear clarification of the direction of continuing training. Reading, writing and accounting shall be prioritised in layers of class leadership knowledge. This is both a right, clear and necessary signal. Our teachers have the most important leadership functions in society, and so this must also be done in the field of continuing training. I also want to signal that from the Labour Party's side we see that we must also be willing to take a debate on today's system can survive in a longer time perspective. So, if you have completed a teacher's education, yes, you are automatically admitted to teaching. The question is, do we have to consider introducing a system of certification for teachers and schoolteachers, such as: also includes a right and obligation to continue training. In any case, the GNIST partnership and the Quality Competence strategy are currently a good way to organise the recruitment and improvement of teacher skills. It will be exciting to follow developments in the future, especially if the school owners are conscious of their responsibilities and will give priority to some of the most important measures to improve the quality of the school, e.g. the teacher’s knowledge and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e717	First, I would like to thank the proposers for addressing the need to train unskilled teachers. This is a very important matter. The teacher is the main person for the student's benefits in school, which is repeated on a continuous basis, both by the school sector itself and by all political parties. This means that if you want to make Norwegian schools even better, you have to bet on their skills. But it may seem that the content of these words has different meaning – depending on whether it is the opposition or the position that has the word. Today there is a lack of approx. 3.6 pst. of the years of teaching competence for the steps in which they teach. It doesn't sound very much, but when we translate this into numbers, it's about. 9,000 primary school teachers. And in this case, it emerges that there are also significant differences at the municipality level. According to a news case from NRK Nordland on February 28, 2012, some municipalities use unskilled labour to teach in 20 pst. or more of the hours in primary school. It's pretty amazing. This is worrying and should worry much more than the opposition. Norway is at the top — to express the negative in a positive way — when it comes to not completing secondary school. We're at the bottom of the list of boys who don't have a reading understanding and who don't finish school in normal time, compared to the relevant countries. The reason for this is that they have too weak knowledge from primary school. Apparently, all the parties take this seriously and will reverse the negative trend, but when it comes to action, there is little willingness to do something that costs money, but as we know will benefit, and that would give more youths the faith in the future and the certainty that they had acquired the knowledge they need. This government is going to spend $74 million. kr a year to give a cultural school lesson to the 1st to 4th grade students. This would have given you approx. 400 teachers in continuing training for six months. Now not everyone likes us to set the two things up against each other, but the politicians' responsibility is actually to give priority. Then I have to say that I would much rather that we had prioritised these 74 million. kr for continuing training. In the government budget for 2013, the following is stated by the government: ‘Human is Norway’s main resource. In Norway, human capital is about 80 pst. of national wealth. Providing each and every opportunity to develop throughout life is important both for the individual and for the further development of the knowledge society. This is also very central to ensuring a knowledge-based working and business life, especially in times of economic unrest.’ Furthermore, the following is highlighted: ‘The teacher’s competence is the single most important factor in teaching students if one ignores their social background’. This case shows that, unfortunately, there is a great difference between what the government and the majority of the population express theoretically, and what they do in practice to ensure that teachers are as qualified as possible to teach at school. We can only hope that in the course of the debate there are people who see that there is a need for a special educational opportunity for unskilled teachers. I would like to promote the minority proposal in this matter, from the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e747	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e750	Research has emphatically determined the importance of the good teacher. Nor do you become a really good teacher without mastering both the subject itself and the dissemination in meeting the students. In the right, it is not possible for national authorities to have such knowledge and then fail to take the consequences. A public school offer is in itself no guarantee that students will be met by teachers with the skills required to teach at the level. The right considers that it is an authority task to contribute to the quality assurance of the training offer, from primary school to university. Our knowledge of the importance of early effort and quality in initial training puts the government parties’ unwillingness on the Left proposal, which can ensure a better quality and a more equivalent school offer, in a somewhat strange light. The left deserves commendation for promoting this proposal and for focusing on one of the major challenges of the Norwegian school, providing enough qualified teachers. It is serious when about 9 000 Norwegian elementary school teachers lack teaching skills at the levels they teach. We have to recognise that access to trained teachers in many places is sometimes very problematic. The result is that municipalities and schools have to go to work for teachers who do not have full teacher training. The right considers that such employment can only be defended if the school owner and national authorities facilitate the upgrading of the qualifications of these teachers and that the conditions of additional training, if necessary, become part of the employment contract. The purpose of the students is that we cannot be passive to teachers who do not meet the requirements for competence at the stages in which they teach. In the government budget for 2013, the government writes: ‘The teacher’s competence is the single most important factor in teaching students if one ignores their social background’. If the government and the minister of knowledge believe what is written in the budget, the government parties today should have wholeheartedly supported a further training commitment for school staff who lack educational skills. A government that makes it ring the bell without ensuring that the school has qualified teachers has actually failed the students. We can't have a school where the students are flattered as to what kind of benefits they get from school. We can't have it that way. The students get this one chance in their lives at school. It obliges society to ensure that students are given the best possible learning offer, regardless of where they live. There is no objection to the Left's proposal that it is not feasible because, for example, in this area: The University of Telemark is on its way. The university actually offers full teacher education, where half of the students are on campus in Telemark, and the rest of the hill consists of smaller study groups located around the whole of Norway. Real-time education through modern information and communication technologies between the University of Telemark and e.g. The five teaching students we met in the Church witness new opportunities and show how modern ICT tools can overcome both distance and geography and facilitate very important skills building in schools that would otherwise have had difficulty accessing well-trained teachers. In fact, it is quite encouraging to experience how some actors in the education sector now aim to provide more flexible education services and fill gaps in their skills in school. This is a challenge particularly in the districts. Right-wing opinion is that it is time to add the list higher for teachers and, on a broad front, challenge universities and colleges to offer more tailor-made skills enhancement services. In addition, right-wing alerts on the skills requirements of teachers, which we believe must include all teachers, including those who are in school today. If we are to wait until we get newly-trained teachers who meet the new skills requirements adopted by the government parties before the summer, it will take many decades before all Norwegian students can be sure to meet a teacher who meets the skills requirements adopted in 2012. It's not satisfying. Refusing to require relevant competence in school believes that the Right is a neglect to the students. Skilled teachers are the key to the school’s better success in equalising social differences and compensating for parents’ backgrounds. Therefore, government parties have an explanation problem when they intend to vote today on a proposal to help ensure that all students, irrespective of their place of residence, have the same opportunity to get a good school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e781	As we have now heard, there is no political disagreement about the importance of the teacher's professional competence for the quality of teaching. The teacher's professional and pedagogical competence is a key factor in the quality of education and is crucial for the student's learning outcomes. Let me add for myself to the teacher’s suitability as a prerequisite for knowledge dissemination – but there’s a slightly different discussion. As the Advocate General pointed out, this government has launched several measures to increase the skills and recruitment of the teaching profession. The legislative proposal on new skills requirements for teaching staff, as proposed by the government in the spring, further strengthens the requirements for professional competence, in addition to the requirements laid down in the new 2008 Competence Regulation. Intensification of the training law and associated regulations in relation to the requirements for teaching competence in each subject will ensure an increase in the professional quality of teaching. Through the new teacher training, action has been taken to ensure more specialised basic training adapted to the different stages and subjects. In order to strengthen youth, the government has started to further develop teacher training with its own programme for 8–13. steps. This will provide room for more professional concentration directly adapted to the youth stage and improve teachers' educational and pedagogical skills directed towards this age group. This government has also made changes to the funding mechanism for continuing education, in favour of the school owner and employee. Then one in this discussion has to pair her legs right in terms of responsibilities. Ensuring that one in the organisation has the necessary competence and facilitates the continuous development of competence is a core task for employers in all businesses — including at school. Ensuring that school staff have professional qualifications is a very important task for school owners, not least if they wish to obtain professional results. Competence development is a management responsibility, which means that the manager has time and necessary insight into the targeted and systematic development of the competence of his staff. I think we still have a way to go so that each school administration is strengthened when it comes to relieving the principal, so that the principal gets more time for staff management and the development of his school. Competence development plans are important and correct, but we have to make sure they get the right address. Individual municipalities and schools need to identify their skills needs. Schedules should be drawn up and the provision of refresher training should be made to ensure that those added who lack formal learning competence are given the necessary qualifications. It will be for its own profit. That being said, government education authorities have also reported overall responsibility for the development of school competences. This is why the government has implemented a number of measures through the Quality Competence Strategy, where, since 2009, school owners, teachers and national education authorities have spent considerable resources on continuing training in priority subjects and areas. But we have to note that it would have been desirable if even more people had applied for the offers given. The proposalers pay particular attention to those who lack study credits and formal competence in the subjects in which they teach – that is what is mentioned in the proposal. But in the debate here it has turned a little bit. Attention should be paid to the large group that is completely lacking formal teaching skills, but which has worked in school for many years and will like to continue in school. There's a huge potential here. I am sure that many of those who currently teach at school, but who sort under the group ‘unskilled’ and thus go on ‘unemployed’ contracts from year to year because they do not qualify for permanent employment, would have preferred to acquire formal competence if the employer had prepared this. Often this adult is unable to study full-time, not only for financial reasons, but also because the family situation makes it difficult to study full-time at a university. We have had similar challenges in the kindergarten sector and when we introduced the 6-year reform. Then the need was resolved by the creation of several decentralised services, where employers cooperated with colleges and provided a combination of studies and work. Decentralised teacher training is being offered today. I think information about more of these offers will be a good solution to increase the competence of many of those who work in classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e811	When we discussed Prop in the committee. No 84 L for 2011-2012 on the competence requirements for teachers, the Committee agreed that there is a need to impose requirements on the teacher to have appropriate competence in the teaching profession and not only in the field of employment. The Committee’s reasoning was strong and good: research reveals that the teacher is the main factor in the student’s learning outcomes. The Committee also stressed the importance of strengthening the competence of teachers. The aim is for teachers to have appropriate training in all subjects in which they teach. What I don't understand is why the government parties believe that this goal is clearly not to apply to teachers who are already working at school and who lack competence. I should also like to know why the government parties choose to reject this proposal by not adopting it, while in other cases today they have wanted the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes. Does the government consider that there is actually no need for specific continuing training measures for teachers who are not subject to the requirement of the new teachers? In the past, the opposition has promoted ambitious proposals to raise the level of continuing training of teachers that the government has also chosen to vote against. This way today's rejection is not new. Most of all, it is probably a confirmation that the government does not see the importance of investing in continuing training for teachers. The Christian People's Party sees this differently. We believe that the teachers are the school's most important resource. We believe that the quality of school depends on the quality of teachers, and we believe that our children and students deserve the best teachers in the world. There is, of course, a need for specific further training measures for teachers who will not be subject to the requirement. Here it is timely to refer to Proverbs 24.4, which says: ‘With knowledge, the rooms are filled with precious, beautiful treasures.’ In that way, I think we can get living classrooms with good, competent teachers, who have the knowledge they need in every subject, and those who want to continue training. We also want the competence requirement to cover more than Norwegian, Sami and mathematics at childhood, and Norwegian or Sami, mathematics and English and other subjects at youth. In the Christian People's Party we are afraid that it can be involved in creating a- and b-schools in school. Students learn differently. For many, having practical-esthetic subjects can help develop the theoretical subjects and their achievements. Therefore, we believe that skills requirements should also be introduced for practical and aesthetic subjects in childhood and youth. We can only record that the government today is actively voting for a proposal that should have been widely agreed on. The voters should note who wants a government to bet on teachers, who are betting on ambitious continuing education of teachers – yes, who want the best school in the world. Then we'll see what the government option will be after the next harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e844	It is tempting to use the rapporteur's rhetoric. This is not about GNIST. This is not about continuing training in order to achieve competence and quality. This is not about changing teacher training. This is primarily about the fact that there are 9 000 unskilled people in Norwegian school where many are very well motivated to be teachers. Some of them think it's very funny to work with children. Some of them think it's great to stand by the catheter or lead the group work, but they don't have the qualifications to do it completely. I've been such a teacher. I have had basic education in all the subjects I have taught, but I have not had pedagogics. It means that as long as things go fine, but when you get problems, when you get students with challenges, like students with special learning challenges, you're not qualified to do anything about it. That's what this case is about. It's about how we struggle to recruit teachers into Norwegian school. It is not that the municipality sees unskilled people because they have a special desire to do so, but because they have to – after all, it is better to have a history teacher with history basic or intermediate than to have a history teacher with no history knowledge. This is why the unskilled are considered. Then my challenge is: what if someone sits down with each one of them – as if my great principal Lucia had come to me and said, Stepne, I think you can be a good teacher, but then you have to have the last thing, the pedagogy, in place. Now we're going to sit down and make a plan for how to get it. Yes, then at least the opposition had released a politician like me. But maybe the school had been bothered with a teacher like me. When we presented this proposal, we actually thought that this was something we might be able to scrape together a majority for. This summer we actually became quite optimistic, because then Marianne Aasen went out in the newspaper. It said: ‘The ace has spent the first time of the summer vacation trying to figure out how to improve the school. One of the things at the top of her list is to make the estimated 9,000 unskilled who work in the Norwegian school better equipped to teach." So the ace says, «Many unskilled students at school act as ordinary teachers in practice. It's a group that needs skills enhancement. The realistic way to do this — unless all these are to take training and be three to five years out of the profession — is to provide them with intensive training’. Then I thought in my naivety that now it was done. I saw, when the Labour Party in its programme process presented its debate on knowledge, that it says that they are going to have a special level of competence for unskilled people who teach at school for at least three years. What I'm asking is whether the Workers' Party has been stopped by SV or something like that. Is it like SV who has sat on the back legs and wants to train the ambitions of the Workers' Party to make unskilled professionals in Norwegian school? Or is there something else that has happened? Is it maybe the Center Party that will definitely stop such a suggestion from getting through? I think maybe it was some other of us who suggested it, and then you can't vote for it – no matter how good it is, and the same thing if you feel the same way. But it also shows that when you promise something and have gone and pondered a whole summer vacation on the big challenge in Norwegian school, it is not so much worth it, sail if you have said it in your own party organ. Here's the thing about some principals having to sit down with their 9,000 unskilled — but many highly skilled — teachers and look at how to make a plan. That means you have to be creative when you think about the teaching methods you need in order for people to be able to combine this with a professional life. This is about catching talents. Many of these are good talents that are well motivated to do the job. Norwegian school needs them. Norwegian school needs engineers or those who come straight from studies, or others who think it is inspiring to work with kids and young people behind or in front of a catheter. We thought this was something we were able to get a majority for. But some have stopped it. I don't quite know who it is, but maybe we can clarify it in the sequence exchange afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e875	Before several speakers reach the highest rhetorical heights, I would ask the majority that this matter be annexed to the Minutes. It is because I believe that there are many important and important issues that should be addressed in the proposal, but that there are also some balances that should be made. What I find difficult in this discussion is not to agree that the teacher is the most important for students' learning and the importance of competence and quality in teacher training, in continuing education and throughout school development, but to agree on what it means that the municipalities are school owners, who are responsible for employers, and how much responsibility they have and how much responsibility we have to take on the government. I'm absolutely sure it'll be a much better school if all the municipalities are conscious of their responsibility every day as to how they're going to develop the school. But as our model is set up, the state cannot deprive them of responsibility for developing their skills for the teachers. We have put in place a lot of measures to ensure that we have good and competent teachers. We have made a proposal through the regulation of the Training Act, Chapter 14, to introduce requirements on the relevant professional competence to teach in individual subjects. The change will mean that the requirement for 60 relevant credits is implemented in order to teach in most upper secondary schools. The same point requirement will apply to teaching in Norwegian/Samian, mathematics and English at secondary school. For most other subjects in secondary school and in Norwegian/Samian and mathematics at childhood, the requirement becomes 30 credits. This is how we will ensure that the school owner assigns teachers with a high level of competence to meet the demands of the future. The reason I haven't gone any further than that is because you have to make some decisions about how to achieve the skills you set all the way. We have completed a new primary school teacher training from 1 to 7. and 5–10, which ensure that newly-trained teachers will have the competence to meet the new requirements. We also have a comprehensive programme for continuing training. If temporary staff have a desire to become teachers, they must follow normal or adapted training courses today for teacher training. I would like to point out that there are very many educational institutions around the district of Norway that should be able to get to it when the school owner, i.e. municipalities are committed to finding good solutions where principals, teachers and school owners agree with teachers who do not have the necessary skills, on how to fill them. We have a lot of work going on to recruit more teachers, and that's very successful. It's a collaboration with the parties that we call GNIST. It's done so far that we've recruited 50 pst. more applicants for the teacher studies than we did in 2008. Of course, it's related to this campaign, but I think it's also related to the fact that the awareness of what difference you can make for the lives of other people if you're a good teacher has become much bigger. The positive attitude towards school has also become much greater. We also have a comprehensive spice layer for the further training of teachers. The Ministry of Knowledge, KS and teacher organisations have agreed that the State should cover 50 pst. because teachers are a particularly important profession for us. We cover 50 pst. the costs of continuing training. The municipalities cover 25 p.m., and the teachers themselves cover 25 p.m. In the current year, it means that 1,850 teachers participate in further training programmes. I think there should be many more. I encourage the municipalities to use it. When I go through the list of which municipalities use the offer and not, it is very different. It is 152 of the municipalities that do not make use of this offer. One third of them are run by the Right. So if there's someone who has some good contacts in the right here, I suggest that they send out some signals about it, and then we do it to the red-green ones. I believe that this is a very good deal for the municipalities. I can't believe that if you change the municipality's share from 25 to 20, it's going to be a huge rush to further education. Here it is the responsibility of the municipalities for the competence that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e890	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e893	Approximately 9 000 teachers in Norwegian schools lack teaching skills for the steps they teach. Everyone agrees that the teacher is the most important factor in students' learning. The Council of State boasted that there was a great deal of further training for the teachers. But the fact is that the bet is on the spot resting, and that many do not get the training they need. When it comes to those teachers who have the least education skills, there is no willingness to make a national effort. The letter of reply to the draft representative underlines that it is a municipal responsibility to give this. At the same time, it is recognised that government education authorities have co-responsibility and a role in continuing training. The question is: does not the Council of State see the value of prioritising these teachers to the necessary professional competence through a national level of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e898	As shown by the State budget and as has been seen in many other discussions, we have a comprehensive commitment to continuing training. The framework for the next year is approx. One and a half billion dollars. That's the further training offer that I've already been through, the 1 850 teachers get in the current year. I encourage all municipalities to sign up here and approve the applications that the principals send on behalf of the teachers. In addition, we have a comprehensive training offer. During this school year, 3,600 secondary school teachers will have been re-trained and filled in how to work more practically and relevantly with reading, writing and billing. So the dilemma is always how we balance what is the responsibility of the municipalities, and what is our responsibility. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to employ competent teachers. It is also the responsibility of municipalities to cooperate with their principals and teachers' rooms on how to increase their skills. But we've been inside and supporting the municipalities in this work in other areas. That's why it's important that we keep the pressure on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e907	This case deals with the large competence hole that is out in school. I have to say I am a little surprised that the Council of State will not take responsibility for the competence challenge we have. The government is taking responsibility for introducing fruit and green at the top of the municipalities. The introduction of voluntary teaching aids and the introduction of cultural school hours is under the responsibility of the Commission. But you don't want to take responsibility for making sure the kids get top qualified and educated teachers. What makes the Council of State refuse to do what might have been her most important priority, namely to ensure that qualified teachers provide the best possible learning outcomes for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e912	I don't hesitate at all – on the contrary. We do, of course, have a comprehensive build-up of competence through continuing training and through continuing training. We've been doing that for years. It's very important – vitally important. In addition, we have changed the requirements of competence in schools, and that is the responsibility of the municipalities to follow up when they employ teachers and when they are engaged in providing continuing training to the teachers they already have. This is the overall way we're going to steer in ensuring the competence of teachers at school and making sure that all students get a good offer. For it is the municipalities that are the employers, and it is those that have to comply with national legislation and legislation when it comes to recruiting competent teachers and ensuring that they teach the subjects for which they are competent, as we have done, when we have changed the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e919	It is a reality that there are many more teachers who want to continue their training. It is also a reality that many municipalities have poor finances. That is why the Right has called for an even greater share of the costs of continuing training to be borne by the State. The right has also been concerned that we need a reform — a strategy — that ensures the right and obligation of continuing education. Governments report on some fragmented schemes. But if we assume that we have 100,000 teachers in this country, we can agree that not everyone is the same age in the game. Some are newly educated and may not need to improve their skills with the first. Then we have a large number of teachers who need skills. With the measures and system to which the Council of State refers, the vast majority of these teachers cannot dream of having an offer of continuing training for perhaps decades. Is it a good strategy, when the school needs to recruit teachers and act like an attractive job?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e924	The main strategy here is that all municipalities understand that they are responsible for ensuring that they have competent teachers to teach the students in their municipality. So we've gone in with a very rusty splice layer with the municipalities, where we pay 50 pst. of continuing training for those for whom they are responsible by employers, because the right transferred the employer’s responsibility from the country to the municipalities. Then the representative of Aspaker and others from the Right believes that if you change the municipality's share of this from 25 to 20 p.m., all the municipalities will come running to ensure that training. I don't believe in that. 25 pst. is a reasonable proportion for the municipalities to take. What is important is that we stress that it is the municipalities that are responsible for ensuring that they have competent people and responsibility for providing their teachers with further training when they need it, and when they want it. So this is where the signal should go. This is a very good offer. There is no reason to believe that there will be major changes in the proportion of municipalities changed from 25 to 20 pst. Here is one job Stortinget has to do, and it is together to underline the responsibility of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e931	I have a very simple question. When the Workers' Party went out so clearly this summer and supported our proposal – was it SV that stopped it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e936	Absolutely not. I think these issues are very important. But I also think it is very important that the Committee and the Stortinge are in agreement and stress that the starting point here is that the municipalities are responsible for hiring competent teachers and taking part in it. I think it's interesting things that come out of this discussion, but the responsibility for recruiting competent teachers must lie in the schools and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e941	The Council of State therefore considers that it is not the responsibility of the State to organise different courses of continuing education. For shipping if it's the municipality that pays these percentages – if it's 20 or 25 pst. – the country is nevertheless the organiser of the training courses. And making a separate, special arrangement that allows these 9,000 people to continue to work as teachers, but also to get further and further education – making a special run for them – has to be done by the government. Then the Council of State has probably misunderstood the proposal, because the proposal is not about taking responsibility for hiring the right people from the municipality. I actually think the municipalities are trying to employ professionals who have been trained in the subjects they teach, but they don't always manage, because actually there aren't enough people on the candidate list.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e947	I think that the representative Trine Skei Grande is right in saying that the municipalities are trying to get teachers who have the education and the skills that we require. What I think they can definitely try even more on – because some of the teachers they have are unskilled or lacking something today – is to cooperate with the nearest college or another school that offers them to fill up and take what they lack in order to have the right competence. There are many municipalities that do today, and there should certainly be more. It is fully possible, because colleges have free capacity in this area, and they can operate more tailor-made in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e952	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e957	In line with the debate that has now been resolved, I would suggest, on behalf of the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre, that we amend the proposal for a decision to attach the protocol. So I'm going to argue a little bit for that, because it's more in line with the posts that have been in the hall here, and that's actually what everybody wants. I am naturally pleased that the representative Skei Grande reads the Working Party's proposals for programme formulations. It should continue – there are many good tips in the programme that can benefit more people. We like to share with the other party when it's about our program. But it is and will be a suggestion. I don't know how the process and the cuty is in the Left when it comes to the difference between decisions in the Storting and proposals for the program process. With us in the Workers' Party, there are considerable differences, and there are clear boundaries. It's the way Marianne Aasen naturally has a grudge -- that's her job -- and she's thinking well. It is also the case that Trond Giske has suggested to the national government some formulations that were precisely referred to by the representative Skei Grande. The country meeting will then take a decision in May – I think they will agree to this – but that does not mean that we are able to move on our heels every day and vote across a current programme. The representative of Trine Skei Grande may be used to her and the national meeting being the same. In the Labour Party, we're a little bit bigger, so we have to have some other processes. I'll repeat what I said in the debate to emphasize what our position is. I mentioned this by introducing a certification scheme for teachers, precisely in order to set even clearer requirements for competence than just what a teacher will provide. And I also mentioned the clarity of a right and an obligation to continue training for the same teachers who support this. So I said that today's strategy of 'quality competence' is a good place to move on. I also think that we should take the time needed for the school owner to show his responsibility, that he is conscious of his responsibilities in relation to what has our problems here today, namely, a proper skill lift for the teachers. We have to give the teacher the little breathing room he needs to get through this. I have confidence that the school owner knows his visitation time and will do this, but nothing is stuck in stone forever. We are willing to tighten up the wording, and therefore we take with us the signals and the debate that have been here today, and, as I said, we wish to attach the proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e968	The President then understands this in such a way that the proposal for a decision is amended from ‘not adopted’ to ‘Annexed to the Protocol’. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e974	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e1002	During the debate Bente Thorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national cross-ministerial plan for adult learning to make it visible and to provide better provision of relevant and good continuing training.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e1021	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e1026	That means that the vote has to be taken again. I'll interpret it like this. The Committee's position is therefore alternately opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e1045	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Mette Hanekamhaug on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals in order to achieve a significantly greater degree of professional concentration and a high level of knowledge from the first year of secondary vocational education.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to make the extent of theory in vocational curricula more practical and professional.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e1081	During the debate Bente Thorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose a specific level of competence for those in primary school who lack teaching skills for the steps they teach. Such a level of competence shall be in addition to the existing «Quality Competence» training strategy and shall include a time-limited plan for the ability of all school graduates to acquire adequate education skills.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-09.ana.ud2611e1132	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
