ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e55	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e58	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Rannveig Kvifte Andresen, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I am delighted to promote a constitutional proposal for more transparency on Norwegian participation in the war abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e63	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e68	On behalf of the representatives of Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to propose the suspension of cabotage rules in road freight transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e73	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e76	I am delighted to make representation proposals on behalf of the representatives of Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself to ensure better rights to care for relatives of «seriously ill children».
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e81	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e84	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, Dagrun Eriksen, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I have the pleasure of submitting representative proposals to strengthen family protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e90	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e106	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each group and four lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e117	The municipal bill is the annual advance on the national budget of the harvest. This is the financial arrangement for the municipal sector for the next year. The final figures come as usual in the budget in October, but there is a real increase in the sector's total revenue of between 51⁄4 and 6 billion. kr. Of these, the growth in free income is between 43 and 4 billion. and 5 billion. kr. The ambition of the government and the majority of the population is a growth in free income up to 5 billion. kr. In addition, there is reason for the municipal sector to note that the tax estimate is adjusted by 2.3 billion. kr for 2012. This is money that also comes in 2013, and further increases the scope of action in the sector. I am pleased that the local community association, KS, refers to the financial arrangement as good, and that it means that the municipalities are still able to provide good welfare services to the inhabitants. The municipal sector manages a large proportion of the community's resources and is an important employer, author, social developer and creator of well-being for the population. The income of the local government sector is about 18 pst. of the gross domestic product of mainland Norway and one in five persons employed in the municipal sector. The municipal sector accounts for a large part of the Norwegian economy. A single committee stresses that good and predictable framework conditions for the municipal sector are important for the development of the country, for the development of local communities and for the quality of life of individuals. The Committee agrees that a good offer within basic services such as kindergarten, childcare, school, local health care and care for the elderly and other nursing needs is absolutely necessary in a modern welfare society. A unanimous committee also believes that the municipalities form the basis for the local government and represent the proximity, belonging, security and ability to influence the population. To a large extent, there is agreement in the Committee on the objectives of the policy towards the local government sector. However, as in many other areas, we disagree on the policy instruments to achieve these objectives. I hope today's debate can produce these political differences in a good way. Our government has prioritised increased transfers to the local government sector. It has enabled municipalities to give priority to what is most important, namely to employ more people in kindergartens, schools and the care of the elderly. Since 2005, there have been more than 53,000 annual works in the municipal sector. Municipalities are building up well-being, and the services that we all benefit from are getting better. The economic situation of municipalities has also improved. In May 2005, after nearly four years of right-wing government, 116 municipalities, more than every four municipalities, were in ROBEK. In May 2009, after almost four years of red-green government, 42 municipalities were in ROBEK, a reduction of over 60 pst. Much goes well in Norwegian municipalities. Studies show that the majority of residents are equally satisfied with the provision of services in their municipality. At the same time, there is reason to be aware of the growth of total municipal debt. Increasing debt is an expression of the development of local welfare. However, there is reason to recall that each municipality is responsible for keeping debt levels under control, even in a situation of increasing interest rates. Another condition is local government pension obligations. By letter of 7 June 2012 to the Municipal Committee, KS addressed the consequences of lower interest rates. I assume that the Ministry of the State Budget for 2013 will review the pension costs of the local government sector in 2013. Norwegian municipalities must carry out a continuous renewal work. In March 2011, the Government concluded a cooperation agreement with the KS and the main employee associations on the «Saman om ein bestemmune» programme. The main themes of cooperation are sick leave, competence and recruitment, full-time/part-time and reputation. It is good that an overall committee believes that local welfare services are best developed and quality improved, among other things. through close cooperation with employees’ organisations. The working party is engaged in a balanced presentation of the situation in Kommune-Norway. We don't want to paint the situation, but we don't see any reason to paint the situation. Much is good in Norwegian municipalities, and some can be done better. I therefore think it is a little disappointing that the right, possibly eager for government power, consistently in the setting makes the situation in Kommune-Norway in a negative way. Then it becomes the natural question of the Right: why have you not spent much more money on the local government sector in their alternative budgets in recent years? Or can we not expect from the Right a certain connection between language and money use? For the truth about the local economy of the Right, the framework is the same as that of the government parties. But the Right wants a completely different distribution of tax revenue in the municipalities than the government parties. More to the tax-rich municipalities and less to the tax-weak is Right's recipe. Almost 90 pst. by Norwegian municipalities would be lost in the tax treatment of Røjre. Those who wanted to earn the most are small and rich power municipalities. So the right will take from those who have little, and give to those who have a lot. This is a very bad policy for distribution. So what would the result be? Well, nine out of ten municipalities would get lower income levels, and it will go beyond the welfare offer in these municipalities. We would get greater differences between municipalities, greater differences in the welfare provision of the population. This, of course, is right, but since policy is firm, it is clear that there are increasing differences. In order to take a pinch of municipalities like Höre's municipal political spokesman, Trond Helleland, know well: Upper Eiker, Lower Eiker, Modum and Smoke. These four municipalities together would have lost well 50 million. kr every year, i.e. that, with the Right in Government, they would lose more than 200 million during a downturn period. kr. It's Right hand billing to municipalities with low tax revenues. The last time the income system was changed, the right government parties accused of tailoring the system to municipalities that were run by red-green parties. What happens if we apply the Right logic to the Right proposal for the income system? What are the 55 municipalities serving on the Right? More than 90 pst. of the total redistribution will be located in the right-hand-driven municipalities. To put it another way: more than 90 pst. of what is taken from municipalities with low tax incomes, ports in Right-Handed municipalities with high tax incomes. It's totally reversed Robin Hood's policy, and there's little doubt that the Right-Steering municipalities are coming out of it well with the Right configuration. Several of us remember what the situation was like last time the Right Rule ruled the municipal economy. Then there was the rapporteur's uprising against Erna Solberg, and in May 2005, after nearly four years of right-wing government, more than every four municipalities in ROBEK, where municipalities are in a difficult economic situation. To believe the Right-wing politicians who are concerned about the growth of the public sector, there is reason to fear that public services in the municipalities will again lose against the Right-wing promises of tax relief, especially if the Progress Party is involved. That's why the next big pick is going to be a direction choice. We can already make that clear. Should we return to the Right strumping of Norwegian municipalities, or should we continue with red-green policies that create activity and new annual works in important welfare areas such as kindergarten, school and care for the elderly? The Labour Party is going to do what we can to bring about the political differences. So I expect the Right Party and the Advance Party to clarify what they mean together, so that we and the voters know what a possible Right Party government will mean for the well-being of their community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e161	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e164	The birthplace of the Workers' Party is well known: the Labour Party and the Government are responsible for extra transfers to the municipalities, and the municipalities have been given billions more to welfare in recent years. However, the Labour Party does not mention that we are becoming more inhabitants of Norway, that it is becoming more expensive to operate municipalities and things like this. The feedback we get shows that the municipalities are struggling financially. We also see from figures that the average operating result of Kommune-Noreg, which in 2009 and 2010 was 3 pst, has fallen to 2.5 pst. The number of ROBEK municipalities in 2009 was 42, now it has increased to 52 – i.e. ten more ROBEK municipalities. My question will then be, how do all these increases in transfers to the municipalities result in a decrease in operating profit and an increase in the number of ROBEK municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e173	It is true that transfers to municipalities have increased – they have increased sharply during this government. What municipalities have spent money for is precisely creating welfare services. They have hired people to care for the elderly, to expand well-being, to have employees in kindergartens – let me remind you of the great baby-sitting lift. The money has gone to what they're going to do, to create more well-being. It is also true that there has been a high increase in activity in municipalities, which means that the debt burden has increased. At the same time, I would like to remind Hagesetter of the hearing that we were at, where the local community association actually said they were satisfied with the arrangement that is in the municipal proposition this year. This does not mean that all the problems in the municipalities are solved, but that means that this is a powerful handshake for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e180	The representative Olsen followed the exact same recipe as before, claiming that you are very satisfied with the resource effort. It's also true that the Right Alternative Framework is not worth mentioning over government, but we have some ideas about how we can make better use of people's tax money and create more well-being. Olsen was also involved in the build-up of debt that is now occurring at a formidable pace — almost the same rate as in southern Europe. Now it's 44 pst. of the annual operating costs that are the liabilities of municipalities and there is an increase from 10 pst. My question is then: if the Workers' Party is concerned about the build-up of debt, I would like to ask Ingalill Olsen to mention one measure, which in practical policy would lead to municipalities being able to reduce the debt burden – just one measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e189	As regards the increase in activity in the municipalities, I mentioned in my previous reply that it has been very high. This is also reflected in the debt absorption. We know that it's being renovated around, it's being built new, it's being built new kindergartens, and it's incredibly positive. At the same time, I think everyone, no matter what party you are in, will follow closely the build-up of debt in the municipalities. It is the local authorities’ own responsibility not to take on more debt than they can serve. The most concrete thing that can help limit the debt situation in municipalities is, in fact, the arrangement in the municipal bill, with increased transfers. If the Right's provisions on taxes, as I mentioned in my post, had been introduced, it would have been significantly worse, and the debt would have increased even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e198	I also want to follow up on this track that Michael Tetzschner had in mind about the huge municipal debt of well over 200 billion. kr. We could also mention the delay in maintenance, which is approaching 140 billion. kr. Ingelill Olsen says that this is the responsibility of the municipalities, and places much of the responsibility for the enormous debt on Kommune-Norway. Does the Workers' Party believe that the government's policy and the sky-high expectations created by the government in Kommune-Norway cannot be linked to the enormous debt that exists in Kommune-Norway? Does Ingarill Olsen think it's not the government's job to make sure that this debt goes down?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e207	We have a local democracy in Norway, i.e. that each municipality is liable for its own debts. But high activity also means high debt, and I think this is a cooperative where the local government and local government are going to interact. I actually have a proposal to the Christian People's Party on how they can help: the Christian People's Party has joined a note from the Right that the tax distribution should be changed to keep rich tax municipalities 50 pst. of its income. This will hit 90 pst. by the municipalities. If the Christian People's Party departs from this, they will actually contribute to the fact that the municipalities have more to route with, not less. If it is as described in the comments that the Christian People's Party has participated in, you are contributing to the poorer municipal economy in 90 p.m. by the municipalities. I can hardly imagine that the Christian People's Party is comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e214	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e218	When a person listens to the case spokesman, he gets the impression that things are going very well in Kommune-Noreg, and of course there is a lot going well in Kommune-Noreg – there should only be a lack. We are one of the richest countries in the world. We have the best intentions to have a good municipal sector and good services in the municipalities. Unfortunately, the feedback we get suggests that this is not the way it should be in all areas, and it comes from many things. The Progress Party believes that, among other things: Because we have a system that doesn't work properly. The progress party therefore has a different municipal policy starting point than the government and the red-green parties. The core of our municipal policy is to put man in the center. Municipality is for the inhabitants, not the other way around. The public has a superior responsibility for the quality of the services provided, but does not have to perform the tasks that individuals, businesses and private individuals can do just as well or better. In any case, the public must have a financial responsibility. We would therefore like to introduce a need-driven state funding of basic welfare services in the municipalities. It works so that one first identifies a need, and then it triggers government funding. This means that it doesn't matter whether a cage in a poor or rich municipality, one identifies a need, and thus triggers funding. Who performs these tasks is usually irrelevant to the individual, only one gets good services. The municipalities have a responsibility to facilitate, but one can leave to private operators to perform these services, where there is room for doing so. When it comes to tasks beyond this, we want it to be financed mainly by local taxation, but also by framework transfers from the state. Of course, until we get an impact on those thoughts and systems change, we have to rely on today's framework licensing system and the challenges it presents. The Progress Party believes that the frameworks signaled by the government through the 2013 Municipal Proposition are far from adequate in relation to the challenges facing the municipalities. The Progress Party has therefore proposed to increase the municipal framework next year by 1.5 billion. kr more than the size of the other parts. In addition, we're also proposing 2 billion. For further information, please contact the local government. It is interesting to criticise Right for not giving more money to municipalities, the Labour Party's municipal political spokesmen. At the same time, the Progress Party gets criticism that we're giving more money to the municipalities. For me, it sounds like cooperation between these parties will be very good for Kommune-Noreg. Many things go wrong in Kommune-Noreg. The local authorities are struggling with the poor economy. Indebtedness, which many people have had, has more than doubled under the red-green government, and new tasks are imposed on the municipalities, for example. The cooperation reform, without enough money and all provisions in place. The maintenance work in Kommune-Noreg has also increased, and continues to increase. In the case of barley, it is estimated at 90-140 billion. kr and that it increases by between 1.5 and 3 billion. kr per year. When it comes to roads, it's estimated at 20-40 billion. kr and that it increases by between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr. And when it comes to water, sewerage and renovation, there's an estimate that the total maintenance run is 110 to 196 billion. kr. The amount of increase each year, I just didn't find any number of it. It also appears that average operating performance in the local government sector is falling. It was in 2009 and 2010 at 3 pst. In 2011, it has decreased to 2.5 pst. When it comes to the number of municipalities in ROBEK, the last three years have also gone wrong. In 2009 there were 42 municipalities in ROBEK. Now we've got new, up-to-date figures that show that this has risen to 52 municipalities, ten more in three years – and this has happened at a time of record low interest rates. The municipal bill for 2013 also does not provide a positive perspective. When one takes into account that we are getting more and more older, plus that one also takes into account the increase in pension costs in Kommune-Noreg, probably increasing interest costs, new tasks and more regulation management, it is difficult to see that the municipalities get better out next year, rather the opposite. The party of progress fears that a already strenuous local economy will worsen next year. This, of course, also means that the huge delays in many municipalities are experienced in relation to the rehabilitation of municipal building stock and infrastructure resulting from a strenuous municipal economy, not being reduced, but increasing further. In the case of care for the elderly, the Progress Party has noticed that the government is now moving away from its pledge to build 12,000 new sick homes. So far, only 1,000 new sick homes are built. So one is far behind the form. We believe that this is worrying and is afraid that these developments will lead to that the municipalities do not have the power to meet the need for more sick homes and a worthy care for the elderly. In order to provide good care for the elderly, action is needed and not just electoral campaign. In order to make better use of their limited resources in the municipalities, it is also necessary to facilitate competition, both in the field of internal competition and external competition. Competition is healthy. In this way, we can have a positive development for the municipal sector and a greater degree of choice, for the benefit of the inhabitants and the service recipients. Welfare technology is a theme that the Progress Party has become interested in. We also have proposals for representatives on this subject, which will be discussed in the autumn. In this context, it is important that central authorities also take action to make use of the opportunities and technologies to provide better care for the elderly. In Norway, we have a budgeting system, an accounting system that is obsolete and that covers the real economic situation of municipalities. We don't have a depreciation, but we have a deduction as one cost. If we had had such a change, for depreciation, as Norwegian companies have, this would lead to red numbers in perhaps most of the country's municipalities. Therefore, short-term and long-term grips are important. In short, in connection with this proposition, we suggest adding more money to the municipalities, so that they can do their job and prepare for future challenges. So we're going in for 1.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities than the government does. We will mainly pay attention to the care of the elderly, the school, the psychiatry and the care of the russian population. Then we also have 2 billion. For further information, please contact the local government. It's a maintenance drop that now seems to be increasing further by the government's signals. That's what we think is very unfortunate, and that's why we're making more money for it. In the long term, there is a part that needs to be done, which I have also had to do. We need to change the accounting system – see the real situation in Kommune-Noreg. We also need to stimulate healthy competition and, therefore, greater freedom of choice for citizens. So we can get more and better well-being for each of the municipalities. Finally, I would like to re-submit the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, whether alone or in conjunction with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e260	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e265	The party wants government after the next big shot. It is not surprising that they are doing so, because they want to pursue the Advance Party policy. However, in several areas, the Right has rejected the policy of the Progress Party. It concerns economic policy, immigration policy, climate policy and pension policy. In the debate we had here in the Chamber on the relationship between the State and the Municipality, Røjres Trond Helleland spoke about the party's unit price financing and the liquidation of the framework financing. He said that ‘the vast majority always have a majority’ And he went on to say that ‘it will have a little to make use of completely fundamental revolutionary principles for the relationship between the State and the municipality’. What do Hagesetseter think about the fact that the policy of the Progress Party has been depreciated by the Right in another area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e280	I don't understand that the Progress Party and the Right are far from each other. I thought that the Progress Party and the Right have a good starting point for becoming a few and could form a government in layers. But now the representative Magnusson also knows that we cannot conduct government negotiations here in connection with the municipal proposition. I don't think she's waiting either. But the Progress Party has its starting point, the Right has its starting point, and before 2005, the three parties that now form the government had their starting point, and then settled into negotiations to become some. I'm experiencing the difference, or our starting point, as far better than that for the three red-green government parties in 2005. So this I think the representative can take it easy. We're going to do this in a straightforward way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e287	The party of progress writes in its comments together with the Right and Christian People's Party that «municipalities shall have the freedom to make independent priorities. It is then important to have an income system that provides room for local priorities’. Paradoxically, at the same time, the Progress Party is the only party in the Committee that believes that framework funding is a very bad idea. The majority of the municipal budget goes to service production, and the Progress Party wishes to finance the whole range of services. My question is, what are the municipalities going to use this freedom for? What kind of room for action will they have when the entire budget framework has been withdrawn and the entire municipal budget is tied up to one-off price financing? It's kind of like I was going to give my boy 50 cents and say, now, my boy, you can go to the store and buy exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e299	It is such that the Progress Party believes that basic welfare services in municipalities should be needs-driven, with state funding. We believe that the services are so important that one should get them delivered, regardless of whether a cage is in a rich or poor municipality. In the past, kindergartens were also funded in this way. Then, according to a pattern that the Progress Party wants, one received money from the state according to a single price system. If one had so and so many children in kindergarten in then and so many hours, knew how much one got. It gave freedom, it gave the possibility to plan. So the government took these money out, and one was going to put it into a frame called free money. But these aren't free resources. Local authorities still have to provide childcare services in the same way as before, so this is really just a game of numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e304	It is possible that I now ask questions only for once to get about the same answer that Gjermund Hagesetter gave to the Center Party. But I'm also very fascinated by this with need-driven, 100 pst. funded welfare services. For the Progress Party says that all welfare services in a municipality should be moved up at state level. There must be a relationship between the country and the individual user who has a legitimate need, and there will be 100 pst. funded when satisfied. I expect that in this case it will be up to the legal system if the users feel that they do not get what they think they are entitled to. How, then, does it feel for a political party to think that giving Kommune-Norway greater freedom to act more on its own and to develop its own policy, while all welfare services – all that a municipality does on welfare – are a relationship between the state and the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e313	Now it is not that the method of funding that we are proposing is unknown. I mean babysitting in my place. Resource-requiring services are also partly funded in this way. One analyses a need, and then receives funding from the state based on the needs of the individual municipality. When it comes to resource-requiring services, this can vary greatly from municipality to municipality. This gives the municipalities that have the largest expenditure in that area more money than the municipalities that have less. But in any case, the municipality will be responsible for the delivery of these services, either by the municipality or by others. But what is behind this – and where the Progress Party and SV are likely to differ from each other – is that the Progress Party believes that the municipalities exist for the inhabitants, and not the other way around. We see the inhabitants in the center, and we want to ensure good services for the inhabitants. That's what's overseeing the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e322	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e325	The municipalities constitute the very core wall of local democracy by the municipalities forming the foundation of the government of the people and representing the proximity, belonging and ability to influence the population. Individuals and communities shall have great freedom to take decisions relating to themselves. The local People's Government ensures closeness between elected and elected peoples and contributes to co-determination, freedom and membership. The municipalities represent the very foundations of the local government and represent the proximity, belonging, security and possibility of influence. Right wants to reward value creation and industrial development. That's why we want to give the municipalities a share of the corporation tax and let the municipalities keep half of their own tax revenue – as they did under the Bondevik II government. This must be accompanied by other changes in the income system, with a view to achieving a balanced and good development in Kommune-Norway. When the municipalities were deprived of income from corporation tax, they lost an important incentive for local economic development and value creation. The right will therefore allow municipalities to retain a greater proportion of their own income through corporation tax, as it will contribute to the growth and well-being of the community. This has been proposed by the Right as long as the Red-Green government is seated. This year, obviously, propaganda machinery has woken up in the government quarter, first through Secretary of State Sandbakken, and now, at the latest, through the Labour Party's municipal political figure Olsen, who has come forward with bad luck to overcome the effects of our proposals. The reality is that so many and major changes have now been made to the income system since 2005, that it is totally unprofessional to compare the figures for 2011 or 2012, and 2005 as the Ministry of Local Affairs has done. It also admits the Ministry of Local Affairs itself: ‘Due to the changes in the period, it is not possible to compare the 2012 cost-balancing with the 2005 cost-balancing.’ And... ‘A full calculation of the results of all changes between 2005 and 2012 is therefore not possible, but on some assumptions the Ministry has estimated the effects for each municipality.’ The quote is from the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete's letter to the Right, by Bent Höie, on 4 June 2012 – three weeks after the Ministry had used its presentation of the Municipality Proposition to attack the Right Order. Three weeks later, when we asked, the department published the numbers, otherwise they were probably meant for internal use. Right will stimulate business development and value creation. We want an income system that focuses on creating, and we want to turn the course from today's course, where more and more people are drawn into the state register to be distributed according to the red-green taste. The government says that the financial arrangement will result in SEK 4.75-5 billion. kr more in free income for municipalities next year. At the same time, we know that there is now a historical growth in the population, which means that the demographic additional expenditures are about 3.5 billion. kr next year. It is based on the SSB average population growth forecast for 2013. If the population grows as much as it is now -- there's a historical growth in the population -- there won't be many extra crowns to travel with next year. In other words, there will be no violent uplift in the local economy. The more important it becomes to give municipalities greater freedom. The municipal sector has a separate responsibility towards its citizens to perform basic tasks by providing services, promoting social development, exercising powers and being a local political institution. At the same time, the State has a responsibility to provide the local government sector with the right conditions for the performance of the tasks for the benefit of its citizens. Norway faces a number of welfare challenges affecting municipalities both directly and indirectly. Local authorities are being bound by the increase in individual rights in more and more areas. The municipalities are also directly affected by, among others. ageing of the population through an increased need for municipal services in this area. This will be demanding for the municipalities, not least financially. The key issue today is whether the ability of the municipal sector to perform its tasks for the benefit of its citizens is best strengthened by stronger state governance or by stronger municipal autonomy and greater equivalence between the municipality and the state. During today's government, municipalities and county councils have been given more and more statutory tasks without the funding being included. This means that municipalities have to cut into their other responsibilities. The need for freedom for Kommune-Norway also means freedom from underfunded reforms. In many ways, the government threatens the freedom of municipalities through the lack of funding and promises that make local politicians in challenging situations, because they are unable to deliver what is expected of them. As a result, the freedom to prioritise in line with local policy needs has been weakened. However, the most important freedom for municipalities is the freedom to provide good enough services and freedom for local adaptation. The main threat to this freedom is that there are no resources to develop and maintain skills-based, stable, locally adapted services in the areas considered to be the most central ones: school, health and care. More and more tasks are being transferred by the State to the municipalities, usually accompanied by strong rights legislation. Local authorities are experiencing an increasing imbalance between the tasks, expectations and the economic space in which they actually operate. This reduces the power of local elected representatives and makes them administrators of government policies. At the same time, state authorities have a comprehensive right to object and control municipal planning. As a result, in many cases administrative bodies are overseeing elected representatives, which, in their opinion, is a democratic problem. We will provide more power for municipal elected and less power for state governments. Municipal self-government is currently underprivileged in law, and is increasingly being eroded by state control. The responsibility for local policies thus becomes more unclear. The relationship between the state and the municipality of a welfare state with strong centralist features, but at the same time with a tradition of local self-government, is exciting. Judicial practices play a very modest role in municipal law in Norway. Partly to compensate for this, the practice of central government is central. A clear advantage of this could be better safeguard in the interests of legal certainty and equality across local borders. In relation to local self-government and the action rooms of municipalities, the main disadvantage is that central government is easily becoming the dominant source of ‘current law’ of importance for municipalities and counties. This applies even in areas where the State and the municipalities may have opposite interests. The day-to-day arrangements for resolving disputes between the State and the municipality are not satisfactory. Problems arise when the State acts as a judge not only following the legislation but also exercising political discretion. I therefore refer to the Right’s proposal, Document 8:32 for 2011–2012, to establish a dispute resolution body between the State and the municipality. Today's organisation of Kommune-Norge prevents many municipalities from being able to perform tasks in the best possible way for the inhabitants. The right therefore sees the need for a comprehensive task and community reform that ensures more freedom and greater responsibility for creating better services and more robust municipalities. Municipalities should have the necessary freedom to facilitate growth and growth in wealth, and we distance ourselves from those parts of government policies aimed at preventing development and economic growth. The right has seen the benefits of competition in a number of areas. We see a great potential for the outsourcing of municipal services and that municipalities likewise compete for attracting business and skilled citizens. Simplification from today's system to a two-tier model with only state and municipality will contribute to efficiency. The law fixing of the co-municipal model considers the Right to be a step in the wrong direction. In addition to the Quality Community Programme, the government's work on renewal in the municipal sector has stopped. Municipalities are now working hard to convert and streamline their expenditure in line with the level of income. If local authorities do not have the opportunity to convert and streamline their efforts to get more money back, the consequences will be reductions in the provision of services and a reduction in quality in parallel with increased expectations as a result of government policies. The right-hand side of the equation is that we give the municipalities the same frames as the government gives. We've given neither more nor less, and therefore we don't paint the situation. But what is our starting point – when the government wants governance, when the government wants to draw all the tax resources into the treasury and then distribute them again – is that we want the municipality to be able to retain more of what is created in its own municipality. It's no unreasonableness. Then the government parties, especially the Workers' Party, decided that the redistribution to which it is added would be very unsocial. It assumes that you don't make any other changes. However, the Ministry itself answers that since 2005, there have been so many changes in the income system that it becomes impossible to compare. I can assure you that if there is a change next year, the municipalities will experience a stable, good income development where value creation and the creation of jobs are prioritised and weighted differently from the current government. We will give the municipalities greater freedom and limit the state interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e382	Right wants to distribute money to Norwegian municipalities in a different way than the government parties want. When the Right uses the concept of municipalities retaining more of their own tax revenue and maintaining company tax, it gives the impression that all municipalities will receive higher income. Of course it's not like that. Right will take money from municipalities with low tax incomes and give to municipalities with high tax incomes. It affects a lot of municipalities. It means cut in welfare. Note that the Right of Greece is now trying to turn away from the consequences of its own policies. Isn't the Right concerned that almost nine out of ten municipalities get less money with the Right Income System? Or will the Right claim that the arrangement of the party will not redistribute the income to the municipalities? Then why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e389	It sounds like the municipalities have to give up tax revenue to the state, almost a debt. It is the State that collects the income of the municipality and re-distributes it. Ingengill Olsen said in his post that the municipalities in the lower part of Buskerud would lose. Then she did not take with the municipalities that would benefit from our arrangement. This is based on a calculation that, according to the municipal minister, is impossible. If you had taken Drammen and Lier in that comparison, the municipalities in the lower Busherud would be left with a plus of five million. kr next year. This is getting too simple. When I then spent a large part of my post saying that we will also make other changes to the income system – which will not result in a sudden upheaval, as the Ministry of Local Affairs at Sandbakken and Ingelill Olsen have added – I don't think the municipalities have anything to fear. Those who have something to fear are those who are opposed to value creation and local welfare development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e398	Right, do what opposition parts like to do. On the one hand, in their own comments, and on the other hand, together with others, they write out the dissatisfaction and the criticism that is being expressed about the state of things in the sector. At the same time, right does something that not all opposition parties do, because they say they don't want to spend more money than the government has put up in this area. Honor be right for it. Then my question relates to the fact that the Right at the same time says that there are many state reforms that are underfunded, implicitly that there should be more money here that followed with the reforms. But from that point of view, are there any reforms that the State should not have undertaken together with Kommune-Norway? What reforms are there in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e407	It's not that we wouldn't implement some reforms, but as I said in my post, we would have done things another way. The most nearby example of this is the Interaction Reform; an overall opposition in this process said that here we have to move forward in a different way. First we have to build up the offer locally, then we have to gradually transfer responsibility. Now we see the opposite. The reform has been fully implemented. Some municipalities are doing well, but other municipalities report that they have major problems with patients who are ready to print, and that this will be a burden for municipalities. There is something about the approach to how to tackle reforms. We want the reforms to be calculated, calculated, using the KS. But we also want the municipalities to be able to handle this. The interaction reform is an example of a reform that some places are going well, others are not doing well. Then we would give the local responsibility down to the municipalities, so that they could implement it when they were ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e414	Greece closed its intervention by saying that if they come to power, they will give the municipalities greater freedom and limit the state interference, they want municipal autonomy to be strengthened, they want less government governance, restrict the possibility of state objections, strengthen local democracy, etc. They try to give the impression that they have great faith in local politicians, and one is almost misled into thinking that they share my view that local knowledge is important, and that the sense is evenly distributed here in the country. At the same time, the Right is the only party in the Committee which does not assume that the concentration of municipalities is voluntary. Why is it that municipal politicians who are competent to govern the local economy are best placed to manage land policy without interference from the state, at the same time being completely incompetent in the area of municipal structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e421	It was a very nice listing the representative Greni had at the beginning of his post, and in all the areas she listed there, I think the Center Party feels that they are in the wrong government. It is not the case that this government has committed to greater municipal freedom of action. We recently received a message about state and municipality, state government, etc., where the government did not make a single proposal of importance. It was the same old thing – and that’s because the Senter Party is being stopped in its desire for greater municipal freedom of action. So if the government parties and the Central Party could fulfill any of these areas – on greater local freedom of action – we would probably agree on a way to organise a municipal reform, because that's what Right wants. I have said that we want a community reform based on: What tasks do the municipalities have to do, and do we have the appropriate municipal structure for these to be resolved? We have not said that we should use force, but we have said that the Storting must also have a word in the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e428	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e431	This is a very solid community proposition. It's an indisputable real growth that lies in this proposition. We notice that the fact debate is also taking place here today, but deep down, I think that when microphones and camera lights are turned off, most people will think that this is well delivered, Council of State! It could have been better. We are now choosing Norway to increase private consumption. Based on the last forecasts I've seen, the consumption is almost double – more than the common consumption. Personally, I believe that – in terms of getting more out of money in well-being, happiness and good health, to say it that way – it is more to get to streamline private consumption than to streamline public consumption. I think in many ways we've gotten further there and could have been able to turn this a little bit more from private consumption – for those of us who are rich – into common consumption. But when it is said, this is good, councillor! Well one year before the elections, it may be particularly interesting to have such a debate and attitude as we have today, because in many ways we are getting a status written – both in writing and orally in our debate – on what the municipal policy landscape looks like. I think it's getting clearer, in the sense that not least the Right Party and the Advance Party are beginning to approach each other. The desire to write together increases – and I understand that – as well as good polls. But there are still some interesting and fundamentally demanding inequalities, which we have already had in the debate so far. One concerns the financial framework, the other concerns the financing model. Here the Progress Party is going very far in saying that there is a lot more money needed for this to be decent from the state, while the Right is very conscious of staying within the existing framework and rather working smarter within the framework of the government parties. The second, as we have also explained, is this with the funding model: it is still completely incomprehensible to me that there will be increased municipal freedom when it is the state that, through a user-attached right, is going to do the whole job in the welfare field out there in Municipality-Norway. But for all things – good luck with the addition! It's interesting, both for those who want to cooperate more closely and more closely, and for those of us who sit on the outside and come with us. After all, the right has been good for the last two or three years to enter a new position. The Iron-Erna position is now very clearly written history and has been very clearly abandoned. Right no longer swings the cold blue whip over Kommune-Norway. At least at the level of the opinion, it is not now being discussed that one should be more efficient in all possible ways. No, the rhetoric now focuses more on ‘here it is too crowded’ and ‘here it is too underfunded’, and ‘here it is important to be even more well-being’. What one should do in the private area should be added to what we red-green already do – primarily by investing in the municipality itself and in the public sector. This rhetoric is now also the Progress Party in the process of joining. The exciting thing here is whether this is primarily just a writing exercise, or whether there are realities in it. I had a little exchange of words here in the room with Jan Tore Sanner a month ago about this with the law of high school, or the law of private school, where the citizens have said that here again there should be full free time in the case of schools. Then Gunnar Gundersen told me that no, you must not use the term ‘private’, you must use the term ‘free’. This is to be financed 100 pst. of the public sector, and therefore it is no longer private schools, then it is health schools. So now I'm waiting for the corresponding thing in the new rhetoric – that it's going to be talking about day-care centres and frescoes and free cinemas and free railways – to put the new thing in place, that it's a "freedom" that's going to be printed here and forward, that it has nothing to do with privatisation. I am still impressed by what – rhetorically – is happening here, and I am uncertain to what extent there are real-life changes in this by releasing the welfare sector ‘free’ in this way. It is possible that I have said this before, but for an SV who still sings with force and hope that now “we gather on the election, the victory we know we get”, we notice that the Right and every time the Progress Party gathers in the center, and probably means in that way to be closer to the victory than we are right now. Renewal in the public sector is important and has been emphasised by several. The trade union has produced a very good report that shows that while this is being written a new rhetoric, there is a practice change out there – not least in Right Municipalities – that takes us more in the private and market direction. I will come back to that in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e450	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e453	SV and Hagen are concerned that municipalities should be able to provide good services to citizens. It's also the other parties on the Stortinget. Hagen says that in the municipal proposition, the municipalities are now getting a real growth. When we break down those numbers, it turns out that the real growth Hagen and the government are talking about, barely covers wage and price increases and pension costs. SV is opposed to looking at other alternatives, i.e. reducing expenditure, among other things. through the outsourcing of competition, but is a major contributor to the burden on citizens of increased taxes in order to see if this is the way to increase the income of municipalities. But the fact is that the real growth Hagen is talking about, isn't real at all. My question is: how to provide good services and at the same time take back the delays in the maintenance of buildings and infrastructure that the municipalities now have, without the local authorities getting a real growth in their revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e460	As it appeared on the radio today, the Progress Party and SV disagree on some things. We also disagree on two things on this issue. The first is the conflict of facts. Here we're simply disagreeing. It is difficult to predict, among other things. around demography, we've already been up to it. I believe that there is every reason to believe that there is already a rather significant real growth that we can expect in the future. Then we'll see -- we'll meet in a year and discuss which of us was most right. I am very much in favour of renewal and efficiency in the public sector, but I don't believe in competitive outsourcing, and I really believe that research shows, but I have a lot of faith in ‘Saman about a better municipality’, and I have a lot of faith in what I experienced at Raufoss last night, the representative’s place of residence, where the SINTEF and the Western Toten municipality are doing in an excellent way innovation work without competitive outsourcing and privatisation, but I’m just getting help from outside to improve municipal activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e468	The representative Hagen wondered if our mindset changed when the camera lights were turned off. Now I haven't seen so much camera lights or journalists here today, so I think we're good at the same policy. But it's very nice that the representative Hagen is so excited about Right's new rhetoric. It may be a little too much that he should be excited about our policy as well. But the government parties have now made it almost a kind of principle to say that keeping their own tax revenue is a miser. It was 50 pst, it went down to 45 pst. And now it's 40. In a good SV spirit, I would assume that the representative Hagen wants to go further down, so that all the money is sent into the treasury, so that we can then be distributed again. How far into municipal taxpayers will the representative Hagen go? Does he feel it reasonable for the municipalities to keep 40 p.m., or should you go further?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e475	There may have been two questions. First of all, this with the new rhetoric: Yes, on a sea level, I appreciate that Right-wing welfare policy is closer to what I think is good welfare policy and closer to the welfare policy of the SV. In this sense, some of the most important things that have happened in recent years, that we have got an agenda that is much more decent and real, I think, around this with well-being, than what we had when the Iron Erna period was at its strongest. When it comes to how to organise the income system and how much the municipalities will be left with, I think it is an exciting and difficult debate. There is a dilemma between the fact that municipalities really need to feel the freedom of keeping the money seaworthy, that it helps their own development work and their own change work, and that it is so important in a country like Norway that we also have this distribution effect. It is not only the municipality's own profit whether it is poor or rich, it is also other factors that are crucial there. We have to keep looking for the good balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e482	The Christian People's Party has proposed full child protection by 2017 – because it's a crossroads that while we've managed to get all children a kindergarten, we haven't been able to get all children a safe home. I have understood both the former councillor Lysbakken and now state councilman No Marte Thorkildsen up there that this is something they are concerned about. But what is the SV's political strategy to achieve what is the goal of the Christian People's Party – and as I understand it is also the goal of the SV – full child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e487	It's true that these people are working a lot on this, and we as a major fraction are also involved in this. There are many difficult discussions here, including: the difficult balance between the amount of government and the amount of local government. But I'm going to answer a little more specifically what I'm asking the representative first and foremost for – the issue of rights. I belong to those who believe that there are many dilemmas associated with rights fixing in today's society. But if we were to start again with blank sheets, I think these kids we're talking about here would have been some of the first ones I would have given a right in our society. They are some of the most needy, who most need the help of the good community to get a better life than many of them get today. So I really look forward to that discussion, because it's both demanding and important. I also think there's a discussion where we can look a little bit away from the party political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e496	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e499	Since 2005, the income of the local government sector has increased by about 59 billion. kr. Over the past six years, we have received 53,500 more annual works in the municipal sector, 22,000 of them in care and care. After many lean years, we have had a strong expansion of municipal services. In some municipalities, the growth of activity has been even stronger than the growth of income, which means that for some, the economy will continue to be felt as tight. For 2013, the government announced a real growth in total revenues of between 51⁄4 and 6 billion. kr. This will enable municipalities to continue to provide good municipal services to an increasing number of users. Good and predictable financial frameworks are important, but the main resources of municipalities are employees. That is why I am pleased that the development programme ‘Saman on a better municipality’ was launched in 2011. This is a cooperation between the municipal sector and the labour market, where the main theme of cooperation is sick leave, competence and recruitment, full-time/part-time and reputation. The main activity of the programme is local. A good and robust environment of competence is important both for recruitment and for getting good quality of municipal services. Therefore, it is good that the municipalities are getting better and better at working together. The vast majority of municipalities, both large and small, participate in inter-municipal cooperation. This cooperation is organised in many different ways, such as projects, intermunicipal companies, limited liability companies, host municipality cooperation, etc. The interaction reform leads to extensive intercommunal cooperation on statutory tasks. It was therefore important that the Stortinget decided in May that the joint municipality was part of the municipal law. In the past, intermunicipal cooperation on these tasks could only be organised according to the host municipality model. The legislation of the joint municipality has been requested by the municipalities, not least by those who participated as experimental municipalities and have gained good experience. The Joint Municipality is adapted to cooperation at a broader and more cross-sectoral level, ensuring popular governance, as the Joint Municipality Board is to be chosen by and among the municipal board members. The joint municipal model is particularly suitable where a fixed group of municipalities have intermunicipal cooperation in many different areas. All will then be able to benefit from the same governance, which can be a priority across areas and sectors. It is positive that the designation is now at a historically low level, and I am pleased that almost the entire committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, determines that the framework management of the local government sector provides the best welfare services. Good local democratic governance provides the best use of resources and the best services for the user. The implementation of the cooperation reform started in January. The reform shall ensure a health and care service meeting the future demographic challenges. It ensures good services as close to home as possible and an effective patient trajectory. The municipalities are given new exciting tasks and more competence jobs. Preliminary figures suggest that municipalities take more care of patients who are ready to print, in line with their intentions. So far I am positively surprised at how well prepared the municipalities have been. At the same time, it's too early to say that everything works perfectly. There is reason to follow developments closely in the future, and it is the opinion of the Centre Party that it is important to have a readiness to make the necessary adjustments quickly during the phase-in period. Large variation in the tax base between municipalities creates wide variations in the level of income. The central party believes that everyone has a right to equal municipal services wherever they live in this country. In order to ensure more even income, the Storting decided to reduce the tax share and to ensure greater redistribution by increasing the tax equalisation rate. Reduced tax rates and increased cohesion are an important redistribution approach that ensures equivalent municipal services across the country. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party believe that municipalities should retain a greater share of their tax revenues. The reason is that they will give municipalities greater freedom and allow them to retain a greater share of the value creation in their own municipality. What they're not saying is when you leave the 10 pst. The richest of the municipalities retain the tax income, the remaining 90 pst. loss equivalent. The poorest municipalities would no longer be able to provide equally good services to their inhabitants. If the goal is to make the rich richer and the poor poorer, it is so absolutely a good idea. On the other hand, if you want equivalent services for all the inhabitants of the country, that is a very bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e523	KS says that the increase in costs in municipalities is greater than the increase in income. I want to know when the Center Party is going to recognize that truth. Then I would like to ask the representative from the Center Party if the Center Party feels comfortable sitting in a government that lays down virtually all post offices around the country. The central party thinks they're the district party over everyone. Now, one around the municipalities might lose 1,000 jobs. How does the Center Party feel about sitting in a government that is involved in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e530	First of all, I have to say I was a little surprised. After all, KS was at the hearing of the Committee on Community Proposition. As the representative probably noticed, they boasted very much of the arrangement for the municipal sector. The KS was very satisfied with the communication proposal and had very few comments on it. When it comes to the issue of the closure of post office, I have a relatively relaxed relationship with it. I myself come from a district municipality, where the post office was closed for approx. 10 years ago. We have received a much better postal service in the municipality after that. We have received Post in Store, where the postal services are available from 9 p.m. 9 a.m. until 9 a.m. Twenty-two in the evening. Postal services are also available on Saturdays from 9 p.m. 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox So it's been a big improvement for the users in that area. There are a few services that are currently not added to Post in Store, and that is of course something we have to look at. The main challenge is when closing a bank account, etc. There's something you need to go to a central office to get done. But all in all, the inhabitants are very pleased with that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e539	The left has great confidence in local forces, and we want to stimulate value creation and reward industrial development in the municipalities. My question to the Center Party is: Is this important to the Center Party, and if so, what are the incentives that the Center Party has for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e544	Activity development is important for the Centre Party. Business development across the country is important for the Central Party. The most important thing we can do is to ensure that we have good financial management in Norway, so that job creation pays off. The regional policy programme we have is precisely designed to stimulate economic development across the country. The most important thing will be to put good ideas into practice about how to find creators in Norway, and how to develop these ideas further. We have a lot of good programs that are now working on these things. The most important thing I think is that people actually dare to try – that people dare to try and fail – and that we put the law aside, so that it is actually possible to be entrepreneurs also in small district municipalities around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e553	The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. This presupposes that power distribution and funding are such that both municipalities and county municipalities have the means to carry out their tasks. The municipality is the main provider of welfare services and requires a predictable and good municipal economy. It is in this light that we are today discussing the municipal proposition. Will the local authority proposal contribute to giving freedom of action and better decision-making powers to the municipalities? There is a broad consensus that there must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipality and the finances of the municipality. It is therefore essential that state reforms and impositions are followed up by adequate free means. Local authorities also have first-line services to facilitate business and social development. This also requires revenue to be proportionate to the responsibilities and obligations arising therefrom. For many municipalities, local economic development has been the status quo for the last few years, for some have declined. Thus, as the survey of the country's rapporteurs and advisers shows, the gap between expectations and what the local economy has given way to has increased in recent years. This year, there have been again tough fronts in the wage-fixing of the local government sector. In the light of the pay statements prepared before the presentation of the municipal bill, the government estimated that the salary increase would be around 3.7 pst. in the municipal sector. Now that wage negotiations are over, you can see that the final result was a salary increase of about 4.1 pst. – a growth that municipal employees deserve to the greatest extent. But salary growth will also mean increased costs for the municipality. So we know that pension expenditure in the municipal sector is increasing, and the demographic development and costs associated with it are the major uncertainties around it. How will the government follow up these more or less unforeseen and significant increases in municipalities? Will the government ease it to the municipalities and thus eat up the small remains of free resources, or will the government come back and contribute more money to the municipalities? In recent years, debt has increased dramatically. Net debt has increased from 20 pst. from revenue at the end of 2007 to more than 40 pst. at the end of 2011. Under Bondevik I the net debt was as low as about 10 p.m. of the revenue. This makes municipalities very vulnerable to any interest rate increase. All of this means that the municipalities are facing an uncertain future in purely economic terms. This will, of course, also limit the autonomy of the municipality, decision-making power and autonomy, which I, as Krafs, regard as very worrying, as we want to facilitate a society where decisions are taken at the lowest appropriate level. In addition to the fact that municipalities face economically uncertain times, the government also enjoys the rightful establishment of basic services for the population. The government finances, among other things: by submitting a proposal for an individual right to user-controlled personal assistance. This mechanism is essential to promote independence and independence for people with disabilities. We in the Christian People's Party believe that everyone with disabilities, who needs it, must have individual rights to this service right from the time of birth. For many, this is absolutely vital to feeling independence and dignity. The Christian People's Party has also fought for a long time to bring about a rapprochement plan for municipal child protection. Among other things, we have proposed a stepping-up plan to reach full child-resistance coverage by 2017. Municipalities report major unsolved challenges in municipal child protection. This is about giving the most vulnerable children the best possible care. We in the Christian People's Party want a viable local democracy, which has both freedom of action and autonomy. We see that the government has in many ways transferred tasks to the municipalities and in addition given the municipalities the bill for the tasks. Therefore, I think it is again necessary to clarify that if the municipalities are assigned new tasks, the municipalities must receive equivalent increased subsidies. Only it will ensure real municipal autonomy – it cannot be stressed enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e577	The Christian People's Party is united with the Right to want to change the income system of the municipalities. Such a change will result in major redistribution effects and transfer money from tax-weak to tax-advanced municipalities. 88 pst. of Norwegian municipalities – well over 350 municipalities – will lose out on such a conversion, and of course it could go against the welfare offer in these municipalities. A state that Bekkevold's representative knows well, namely Telemark, will lose tens of millions of dollars every year with such a conversion. Now I have heard the representative Bekkewold express his great concern about the situation of the municipalities in economic terms, and then it is natural to follow it up and ask: Isn't the Christian People's Party also concerned that their policies will lead to further deterioration in most of the country's municipalities, which must cut off their welfare offer because of the policy that the Christian People's Party wants to pursue?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e584	First, the Christian People's Party wants municipalities to retain more of their tax revenues than they do today. The company tax is for the Christian People's Party about having some incentives that make municipalities also bet on business development. It's very important throughout the country. So it's like this, which has also been clarified in previous articles and lines, that the income system has changed. It is not possible to compare the income system from 2005 and the current situation. This means that the Christian People's Party will not introduce this overnight, but we will of course be involved in proposing a redistribution that will make no municipalities weaker than this, but instead be strengthened by retaining more of the tax revenue that they can spend on good welfare measures, and that there is also an incentive in the field of business development, by the fact that municipalities are paying for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e591	It was at least clarifying to hear that the Christian People's Party is going in for no municipalities to lose on their conversion. It'll be an interesting calculation to see – when you get the concrete suggestions. In the follow-up to the answer where the Christian People's Party tried to misjudge the consequences of what they do – a stronger municipal economy for the municipalities that already have the most, and a weaker for the poorest – it is interesting to follow up another relationship. In one of the comments in the suspension, the opposition parties say that they want the municipalities to retain ‘at least half of their tax revenue’. I heard the representative of Helleland challenge SV on how low SV will go. My question to the representative Bekkeword will then be: How high will the Christian People's Party go? Is it a measure that all municipalities should retain all their tax revenues? That'll give you the strongest incentive. Then I have a small remark in the end. The Christian People's Party is now raiding the difficult economic situation of the municipalities. Then my question becomes: What is the Christian People's Party's responsibility that local elected representatives have in order to follow the municipal law and to keep order in their own economy, balance income and expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e602	To this with the income system: I just have to refer to what I said instead. The revenue system has changed. So our proposal is not something that can be introduced overnight. It is also fixed in previous articles. In the case of local authorities and elected representatives, the representative Sivertsen and the undersigned are fully in agreement. However, if we are to impose this duty on municipal politicians, we must from the standpoint of government and growth ensure that they are able to comply with the municipal law. Let me just give you one example: every child has the right to a nursery place. Kindergarten reform is an underfunded reform. Let me also add: Once cash support has been removed, there has been a great need for more nursery places, which the government does not follow up – and which may turn municipal politicians into lawbreakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e611	I shall now invite the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold to use his reply minute to pay tribute to the county council, the importance of having a directly elected political body at this intermediate level, at the regional level. I have two reasons to ask. One is that all of us who are concerned with ‘whole’, ‘dynamic’, ‘innovative’, ‘sustainable use’ — all the beautiful words — and social developers in Norway know that such a long and varied country needs this level, to which not least we politicians must be connected, so that it becomes democratic and holistic. That's one reason. The second reason is that in between it may seem that the Christian People's Party is in a bit of a bad company. The right-hand and the right-hand games are very different from this middle-level game. Therefore it would have been very nice to get 1 minute with a county council tribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e620	The representative Aksel Hagen will get it, for here the Christian People's Party is fully in line with both the SV and the other two government parties. We want to maintain the county council – the three-level model that we have today. We might have come out better if we hadn't put the regional reform in the drawer as emphatically as we did. I think it would create even more robust devices, which could perform important tasks, including: economic development, school and other important tasks for which the county is now responsible. There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party's policy is to keep the three-level model as it is today. But we have nothing against replacing the county with a region. I have to say that I think it is very sad that this reform was put in the drawer, as this government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e627	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e630	Many of the major debates in the last few years have been about the welfare state, about the welfare state's challenges and funding. What we often forget about in this context is that for everyone, most people, the welfare state is the same as the municipality. In most areas, the municipality is responsible for the availability of services, and in many areas, the municipality’s employees provide the services. That is exactly why it is so important that we have robust, strong and autonomous municipalities. That's exactly why the Left believes that a good and living government will find good solutions locally. The local economy is largely determined by transfers from the state. However, equally important is the degree of freedom associated with State transfers. Free means are involved, and the device and regulation of the non-free means are involved. In addition, the Left believes that municipalities should retain more of their own tax revenues and be given greater opportunity to determine the municipal taxpayer itself. It will provide the municipalities with the necessary incentives to facilitate a diverse business life and the ability to make financial uplifts that are currently not possible. We are now in the process of implementing a major interaction reform. The left supports the intentions in it, but it requires a lot of the municipalities. Last night I was at a meeting and was told that not everything is going on. Psychiatric health protection is a major challenge in several places. Not least, the reform requires robust professional environments in a number of areas, which many smaller municipalities will be struggling with. Therefore, the Left believes that we should be in the forefront of development and set a plan for fewer and larger municipalities. Sitting and waiting for this to happen voluntarily, without a single incentive or instrument, is not sustainable. We know the result. The left does not want larger municipalities to get savings. We want larger municipalities because we want to delegate more power – more power to municipalities that are able to find local solutions for the benefit of their citizens. We want to make it easier to do local priorities, but then we need municipalities that are able to take on that responsibility. There are many of today's municipalities that can't. Another major challenge in terms of municipal power is government governance. We have just addressed a communication on the relationship between state and municipality, which was in no way the answer to the challenges, rather the opposite. The government writes in the message that the effect of giving the municipalities more power is weakened by the fact that many municipalities do not have the capacity and competence to follow up the responsibility, which is precisely underpinning the Left's points. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber, from the Left. There is no new proposal. We've been promoting a similar in the context of the municipal proposition in the last two years, but it's more topical than ever. Today, local democracy is regulated by up to 7,000 paragraphs and regulations. In addition, we have a very advanced income system, which few people have a full picture of. It is an old mouth saying that the agricultural agreement was so complex that it was only the former Ministry Council in the Ministry of Agriculture, Per Harald Grue, and Our Lord who had the overview, but that Our Lord was about to lose his grip. It can easily be rewritten into the complexity and scope of the state regulation of municipalities. It's getting more and more complicated, and it's a big paradox when we know that it's just ten pst. of the municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants who have a lawyer. In other words, there are more than 200 municipalities that have not employed a lawyer. Who interprets all these 7,000 legal paragraphs out in the municipalities, nobody really knows. Given the legal certainty of individuals, this is dramatic. That's why the Left wants to initiate a review of the whole law that organizes our local democracy, which hopefully will clean up, clean up and make expectations much clearer. Today, unfortunately, the government continues to impose on municipalities a number of measures that are not fully funded, now at the latest in secondary education. Many small municipalities will not be able to implement the Grand Duchy's electoral decision when it is assumed that it will take place through re-priorities within today's school system. Therefore, municipal economy is more than money. It is primarily about coherence between tasks, regulations and transfers, and the freedom to find solutions to the best interests of its citizens. Finally, I would like to say that the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 and, of course, our own proposal, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e661	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e666	I have a question in connection with the Left's proposal. Left will reduce the number of laws, regulations and reporting requirements in the relationship between municipalities and the state. After all, this was a subject when we discussed Report two weeks ago. St. 12 on governance and interaction between state and municipality, but it's never too late for good suggestions. But I think – especially with the background that this is a proposal that is two years old – that the proposal is a little vague. Is it not true that the content of the law is more important than the number, and is not part of this law also about services for the inhabitants and the rights of the inhabitants? So I wonder whether the Left can make its proposal a little more concrete: what are the laws and regulations that the Left considers superfluous?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e675	The left is, and has always been, concerned with simplification. In the Financial Committee, we have proposed the establishment of a Regulatory Board, in line with what Sweden has done. They've got downgraded the laws and regulations with almost 20 pst. It was simply the laws and rules that were there and that were not activated. We also want to do this locally. As I said in my post, we are concerned that there is not enough knowledge and competence in the municipalities. I am very surprised that the Workers' Party does not see exactly that. If it is the case that there are so demanding laws and regulations in the municipalities, and they do not have lawyers who can interpret them, as I said in my post, it can go to legal certainty. I would believe that the Workers' Party also sees this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e682	The left suggests that they want a sharp reduction in the number of municipalities, they want a municipal structure reform. It is suggested that it is almost a prerequisite for the success of the interaction reform and that we are unable to maintain welfare services at today's level if we do not have a significant reduction in the number of municipalities. How is it related to the fact that users in small municipalities are the most satisfied with welfare services? How is it related to the fact that small municipalities are the best places to accept ready-to-print patients? How is it related to the fact that the small municipalities are the most forward-looking in establishing and taking over the tasks of the cooperation reform, and that they are the ones that are the most eager? And what about the fact that the most unskilled municipality in the country is the municipality of Oslo, especially in the care, care and kindergarten sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e689	For the Left, it is actually very important with large, strong and robust municipalities, and the background is that we want to delegate more power from the state down to the municipal level. I am very surprised that the Center Party does not share the wish that local forces get more power. If it was a party that would want it, it had to be the Center Party. I was very surprised by the contribution I heard from the representative instead, where it was not about business development and value creation locally, but just distribution, distribution, distribution. It surprised me from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e696	Municipal structure is an exciting theme, not least for a party that has ambitions to sit in Oslo and from above in many ways redraw the municipal map. Could the representative say a little about what the municipal map would look like in Finnmark? What would the municipal map look like in Uppland if the left were to decide? Or is it primarily the Oslo region that has to stand out as one municipality? We have very wide variation between small and large municipalities today. Resistance to change is primarily linked to change and is not really a debate about small and large municipalities, but that one will keep its municipality as it is, whether it has 500,000 inhabitants, or whether it has fewer than 1000 inhabitants. Will the new left-hand map be more equal to the size of the municipalities, or will the variation actually be even greater, because it is the major municipalities that are going to merge? I would like to get some thoughts from the representative about what the map will look like when the Left – if the Left – gets to decide. Notice, I said "if."
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e703	When the Left decides, we want bigger municipalities. It's precisely because of what I said in my post: we need more knowledge and competence in the municipalities. There are a lot of professionals who want to move into the districts, but precisely because they don't find professional environments, they don't. I know a lot of people who want to move into the districts because of family relationships, but then they have a high level of education and don't find the exciting environments of competence that many highly educated people want. So the left has not drawn the municipal map at all. We're not going to sit and do that here on the Stortinget. We have a big debate in the party now, which will turn into a very good program for the Left. So the representative Hagen will get that answer later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e710	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e713	The government has provided two important documents in the Stortinget on the municipalities in the spring session: first the principle notification of the relationship between the state and the municipalities, then the municipality proposal for 2013. Both documents are important for the future in Kommune-Noreg. It is about freedom of trade, and it is about resources for the municipalities and the inhabitants. Municipalities are broad social institutions to look at and take responsibility for services and societal development in local communities. This is precisely why municipalities are well placed to see challenges and find good solutions both in cities and in towns. They have our innovative through history. Most of the welfare services we have today, and which have been national reforms, have started at municipal level. This is also the case today, and we are looking at the Reform of Cooperation, which is a good example. Many municipalities have already developed smart solutions in health services. Now the state is following and making the reform nationwide. The state-municipal message, which was a bit demeaningly referred to here today, establishes the principle of economic and legal framework management of municipalities. I am pleased that a broad majority in Stortinget ends up on this guiding principle, and take it as a good sign that the Progress Party does not reach politically with its single pricing system. Such a system, framework funding, is sensible and effective in giving municipalities responsibility for tailoring welfare services and prioritizing what is most important in each municipality. Some municipalities need care services, others in school. Therefore, a local priority must be given – it also provides the best services. When one hears the opposition's black measurement of the local authorities' situation, one would think it is very poor. Then it's good we have KS. Then it is good that we travel all over the country and meet municipalities at municipal conferences in all counties and are told that it is quite well done. They're happy. There's almost no critical question about the municipal council. Well, both the government and the state council, so that a listener listens to the municipalities and spends money on the areas they've said it needs, like, for example. kindergarten and funding led to the need for more kindergartens than those scheduled last year. We have listened to them and added more money. Local authorities need resources. Since 2005, municipalities have had a real growth in income of 59 billion. kr, corresponding to 2,6 pst. per year. It's taller than it was at the time the opposition party was in government. Local authorities have benefited from the money in a good way: full childcare coverage, several year-olds in the care services, a better school, and several young people are helped by the protection of their children. At the same time, they maintain a good balance between the development of services and a healthy municipal economy. An average operating result of 2,8 pst. in the period 2006 to 2011, the average under the right-hand rule is much higher. I'm proud of that. It shows results. 62000 more were added to the sector from 2005 to 2011. I remind the black-painting people in this room that the same figure was 7,200 in the period 2001–2005. It's not that bad! There is an eagerness in the municipalities to add people, provide better services, build new schools, build new kindergartens, fill water in swimming pools and take care of their inhabitants. I'm proud of that, too. The real growth in the total revenue next year will be between 5.25 billion. kr and 6 brd. kr. A high amount of free money, up to 5 billion. kr, will enable municipalities to give priority to different local needs. In addition to a good growth in the framework, the estimate of tax revenue for the municipal sector in 2012 has been adjusted by 2.3 billion. kr. Total growth is the highest seen in the municipal sector, if you look at both the tax revenue and the framework in the context. One of the important steps taken by this government has taken for Kommune-Noreg is a fairer distribution of income, and because we distribute the tax growth, which has also been problematic today, all the municipalities enjoy increased tax revenues. It provides opportunities for both large and small municipalities to provide good welfare services to their inhabitants. That's the goal of this government: equivalent services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e735	Now, what we've heard from the municipal minister here today is much like what we've heard before. It's a huge real growth for municipalities, extra transfers. She did not tell us that in this real growth, it is not expected that we will increase in this country, that we will grow older in this country, and that the municipalities will also have new tasks. The feedback we get, and all the numbers, shows that the municipality of Norway is not doing so well in these billions that the municipal minister boasts that the municipalities have received. Current increases to record level in Kommune-Noreg, and maintenance run grew year by year with billions of dollars. The average operating result was 3 pst in 2009 and 2010. It has fallen to 2.5 pst. Several municipalities have entered ROBEK. Then my question is, how does it happen that all these billions lead to this development in Kommune-Noreg?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e743	I need to remind the representative Hageseter that just demography, that we're getting more, that there are more older, that the population's attitude is changing, that's what's being captured in the free incomes and in the demographics of them. They're estimated at 3.1 billion. kr, or actually €3.5 billion. kr, but SEK 3.1 billion. kr shall be taken from the free income, as we have calculated. The rest is charged and miscellaneous other revenues. In addition, there are pension costs. In addition, there will be free resources and, in addition, there will be a tax increase that will also benefit municipalities, which will benefit from prioritisation. Because we don't have a right-wing policy, but a distribution policy, all municipalities benefit from that income growth. Therefore, there is a real growth in the municipalities and not just a growth that we are talking about, but that the municipalities, with which I have now visited many of them around the country, are very content, unlike the representative Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e748	It seems that putting the right – or ‘right’ – in front of a word makes it feel negative. It doesn't seem like the voters just seem to be doing it right now. The adjacent seat went far back and talked about the last Right-leaded government when she was going to describe the misery and what it was like then. It was the Syse government, where the Center Party itself took part, which was the last Right-lead government. But to something that seems to go well here in the country, and that's the evolution of the people. In the first quarter of 2012, the population increased to 281 municipalities and to 140 municipalities. But eleven counties had domestic moving losses to other counties. Finnmark had the largest relocation, followed by Sogn and Fjordane. But all the counties have a moving gain from abroad. How happy is the Council of State that we have the EEA agreement that gives free labour immigration and thus growth in the population in all the counties of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e755	The fact that we have growth in all countries has a composite explanation, not least the explanation that we have a government that has increased the regional policy supplement by 1.4 billion. kr, which allows the creation of jobs, municipal nutrition funds and a lot of activity, which one did not facilitate when a cut the same regional policy contribution of the Right-dominated Government in its time. Of course, I'm glad it's moving people to Norway. When a listens to debates where Right-Leader Erna Solberg participates, a few impressions might be that this is a pitfall. That's not how it fades. We have stable economic governance, we have low unemployment, we have good political governance of resources, which means that the whole country gets involved, and it is then attractive to move to all parts of the country. I'm busy that in the years that come, where there's also a large population growth, we're going to have a good distribution policy that makes it attractive to live in the whole country. Therefore, it is important that this government continues after the elections next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e762	I hear the council is very busy conveying the impression that the only opposition parties are doing, is black-painting, talking Kommune-Norge down. I think the Council of State should have shown a little more respect for the concern expressed by the Christian People's Party regarding the local economy, given both the enormous debt that has grown in the municipality of Norway, the enormous maintenance effort, increased wage and personal costs, the demographic development – we do not fully know what economic outcome it will bring – and not least underfunded reforms. Does the Council of State really believe that sharing such a concern is blackmailing the situation in Kommune-Norway? Isn't the Council of State itself concerned about what the Christian People's Party has pointed out in its article?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e769	There is a striking contrast between the comments and discussions we have with KS and the municipalities at large, and the post that has been in the hall today. My remarks about black measurement were not written in my post when I came here today. They added after listening to the debate, because I thought he was negative. There are many positive moves. But of course there are also moves in Kommune-Noreg, by individual municipalities, which give cause for concern. In all my meetings with municipalities, with KS, at the national government meeting in KS, and otherwise I urge you to moderate and to have a home with the frames you have, in the long run, see that you have room for growth waiting, which can come, and see that the investments you make are part of a holistic arrangement that means that you must not cut down on the services of the inhabitants to the extent that you can see that it is dependent on the pure path. So, of course, I share the concerns, but now I share first and foremost joy over a good community arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e776	In the context of the recent consultation of the Financial Committee on the electoral system at the youth level, Unio concerned about the underfinancing. Such arrangements are intended by the government to provide for elective hours by redeploying hours and learning forces from other subjects. It can certainly be done in large schools, but in small-scale schools this has to be a far bigger challenge, and it will be at the expense of resources for ordinary education, as we see it. It's not in line with Storting's intention. So my question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State comfortable with how the electoral system is going to be put in place, not least in view of the smallest schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e783	I am very happy that the government is now going for a more practical school. It has been a battle cause for me and my party all the way. Since the reform in 1994 and reform in 97, we have been concerned that both in continuing school and in the basic school, practical subjects need to be developed, because not everyone is just theoretical, many have practical characteristics that must be cultivated. That's why I'm also very careful about how we're going to get funding that provides both the equipment that's needed and the skills that need to be put in place. And I'm going to do that too. We've got a good start on this, and we're going to further develop it in the years to come. It is therefore important that the government be seated so that we can complete both this reform and other important reforms, so that one actually sees the individual student and develops the characteristics of the individual student. That is what this reform will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e791	I need to say something about the backstop for the debate we have today – a debate many people envy us. While our debate is about how much the local economy has grown and will grow, many of our neighbouring countries have to cut public budgets. And while we are discussing improvements in welfare provision, politicians in other countries have to take responsibility for reduced welfare. In the euro area, every 10 workers are out of work and there is an open talk of a lost generation of young people. The OECD believes that European welfare countries are facing dramatic changes. Many European countries will be forced to make cuts in pension, health and social security systems. Europe is likely to be faced with difficult decisions and tough conflicts for many years. As Europe bleeds, since 2005, nearly 300 000 jobs have been created in Norway — two out of three in the private sector. In another context, the representative Tetzschner from the Right said that the Norwegian model is nothing more than the Greek plus oil. That's wrong. That's not the oil we live on. The management of the oil is important, but it's work we live on. While Greek women have the lowest professional participation in Europe, Norwegian women are on top. It is a result of political choices and solutions that the Right has not pushed forward, and applauded to a small extent. Many countries have natural resources, but there is no automation in providing high activity in the economy, low unemployment, government budget surpluses and fair distribution. Norway is not shielded from the effects of what is happening in Europe. The question is not about, but when and how Norway will be affected. Safe economic governance is our first line defense. For this reason, the government is making use of oil money that is under the rule of action, and recently presented a proposal for a strictly revised national budget. But the majority government prioritises the municipal sector. Since 2005, the municipal sector has had a real growth of 59 billion. kr. Today, we are making decisions that imply that the municipalities are growing in free incomes up to 5 billion. kr in 2013. In addition, increased tax revenue is SEK 2.3 billion. kr in 2012. The income framework will allow for the expansion of service provision beyond what is required by population growth. The municipalities have been heard, the new head of the KS cheered when the municipality proposal was presented. The rose from Gunn Marit Helgesen, representing the Right, contrasts with the description of her party traps that express her in the hall. Norway is experiencing strong population growth. It's positive, but at the same time it gives many municipalities new challenges. They need to facilitate housing, build infrastructure and develop the service provision. The Workers' Party is committed to ensuring that the municipal sector is well-managed, so that the population is provided with the best possible and best-possible welfare services. Luckily, the municipalities make good use of the revenues. They operate cost-effectively and unbureaucratically. At the same time, municipalities must work with innovation and innovation. The «Communication on a better municipality» programme is a good project. The work on ICT is important, and the local government's innovation efforts need to be integrated into the government's announced innovation strategy for 2013. In addition, it is necessary to contribute to structural changes in municipalities. It's not about how the sense is distributed, like some later that, but about that many municipalities are too small to solve the problems alone, and many see that larger trade unions can provide better services. The Labour Party has programmed that we believe there is a need for changes in the municipal structure. We look with concern at the emergence of ever more extensive, unbridled and undemocratic intercommunal cooperation. Discussion of structure is also part of the renewal work in the municipality. Since 2009, the Municipal and Administrative Committee has been on 15 county trips. We've met hundreds of local politicians, representatives of all parties, who disagree on most things. But one thing they have in common: no one has wished to return to the income regime that the council when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. The representative of the Progress Party was concerned with the number of municipalities with financial problems in ROBEK. There are now 52 municipalities in ROBEK. When the Progress Party had budgetary cooperation with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in 2004, the number was 118. The number of ROBEK municipalities is a poor barometer on the health status of Norwegian municipalities, but if the Progress Party insists on measuring this, we can conclude that Norwegian municipalities have become twice as healthy since 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e806	I note that municipal politicians around the country now have one main task, and it is to make the municipalities operate to float around with the least possible damage to the inhabitants. In the presentation of the municipal bill for 2013, the municipal minister boasted of the amount of money to be given to municipalities in 2013. When the economic and local politicians in the municipalities have now had time to get involved in the impact of their government proposal on the municipal economy for 2013, they have discovered that there are many black clouds in the horizon. Local politicians, who have a great responsibility for the welfare supply around the municipalities, do not expect the priorities to be met during the budget round of the autumn. In my view, they have good reason to be concerned. The interaction reform is a particularly demanding reform for municipalities, for the municipalities have neither economic resources nor professionals, so that one can start with the main objective of the reform. If local authorities do not have the means and resources to invest in preventive work, it will be a very costly reform for municipalities. What we are witnessing today is that there is little money in the municipalities for preventive health work, but the municipalities are clearing up places in the hospitals to receive patients from hospitals. As a result, many patients who should have a place in a nursing home remain in open care. Will the sitting government take responsibility for this and get the recommendation that the reform has led to one thing, namely that patients suffer because there were not enough resources put in place? We in the Progress Party have proposed in the Municipal Proposition 2013 to increase the fees to the municipalities by 1.5 billion. In addition to the proposed government, these funds are mainly earmarked as means of operation for the care of the elderly, the foundations, the protection of children, drugs and psychiatry. We've also proposed an increase of 2 billion. kr for maintenance and upgrading of the county road network. Now it is such that the sitting government generally does not listen to the opposition's advice, and especially not to the Advance Party's advice. But for patients and elephants around the municipality of Norway, I have little hope that the government can increase the rights of the municipalities, which I am sure the grassroots of the municipal minister has a strong desire for. I record that outside the municipalities it flashes in the savings knife, and alleys are laid down because of a difficult municipal economy. I'm now recording that scoops with good results before the basics, such as reading and mathematics, are being laid down. I am very surprised that the government will be a contributor to this. If a pool is laid down, it is the county that has to pay for the shower to the students who must then be transported to another school. This is what I call centralization, and I wonder what the Minister of State thinks about it. But in the Council of State rhetoric, it is only shown that these are the local politicians' responsibilities and not the Council of State. The Progress Party calls for a clearer timetable for when the government intends to implement a holistic approach to digitisation of public services. Our view is that such digitisation will be enormously cost-effective for the public sector. In this context, we will refer to Denmark's strategy for digitisation of the public sector, where Denmark can document savings up to 17 billion. kr per year, and user satisfaction is great. Such a saving potential would be dear to the municipalities throughout the country at a time when local politicians are striving hard to explain to the inhabitants of their respective municipalities why they have to go down on welfare services when the municipal minister boasts of how much money the municipalities have been transferred in the years that the red-green government has run the country. [[In the course of the installation, the civil protection warning system shall sound with the ‘air alarm’ signal.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e833	I'm going to come back to a theme we were about a little earlier today, in the change of line with the case rapporteur, Ingelill Olsen. This concerned the development of debt in the municipalities. In my opinion, the government parties do not do much more than mention the problem. It is pointed out that debt management is the responsibility of each municipality. And then you say the mandatory thing, that you have to follow developments closely. In common everyday life outside of people, that means you haven't thought to do anything about it in particular. The rapporteur said in his statement that high activity leads to a high level of debt. It is true in itself, but it is just as right to see debt build-up as underfunded activity – a non-sustainable activity that needs to be reduced later in order to serve the borrowings raised. I must admit that, in some cases, debt financing can be very sensible and also necessary. But then the purpose of the loan has to give a higher return than the borrowing costs. If that's not the case, the debt is used to advance consumption, and it's not sustainable. It does not help to call the purpose of borrowing investment, if the operating consequences are negative for the local economy. This means pushing problems in front of them and leaving them to later local authorities to make painful priorities. Given that the growth of income falls to a more normal level, that the level of interest rates rises to a more normal level, and that municipalities continue to finance investments in the same way as today, the following may happen: the debt that has risen from 10 pst over a couple of major periods. of annual revenue, to 44 pst. today, may increase to over 100 pst. Revenue must then decrease from 95 pst. for less than 90 pst. of the revenue. The consequences of such a cut will for Kommune-Norway amount to roughly 20 billion. kr in reduced activities and budget cuts. We are in the situation that the growth in income now needs to be above interest rates in order for this to go well. But if interest rates were to rise, there would be a dramatically greater need for tightening up. This is not a worst case scenario. The central statistical agency has estimated a doubling of the money market rate by the end of 2013. Although development should follow a more favourable path than this, municipalities will face major problems if the level of interest rates is higher than the growth of income. The Ministry should obtain, to a greater extent than at present, an overview of the level of interest with which the municipalities have budgeted. In this picture, it is also appropriate that the municipal accounts themselves and the way this is done today do not support long-term investment decisions. The local accounts do not reflect the maintenance needs resulting from the acquisition of real values in the form of buildings, machinery, installations and roads. Depreciation in municipal budgets could create the space and discipline in the budgets that prevents maintenance delays from occurring in the future. As it works today, maintenance is not the most widely used measure to deliver municipal budgets that are formally in balance, but where the assets are demolished. These problems coincide in time with another situation that has been updated since the presentation of the municipal bill. In letter of 4 June, the Financial Supervisory Authority announced that they consider reducing the calculation rate for new life assurance benefits from 2.5 p.m. to 2 pst. A reduced interest rate of 0,5 pst. will lead to a sharp increase in municipal pension contributions as early as 2013. The supervisory consultation notes state that the increase will incur additional costs for municipalities of 3 billion. kr due to this change. This will initially cause the municipalities to lose liquidity of the same size. There are also other consequences in accounting terms. If the premium deviation, which is already record high, is not to increase from today's 23rd billion. kr, the real wages and salaries rate affecting pension costs must be increased with effect for 2013. At the same time, there is a need to increase the sustainability of the pension system by reducing the premium deviation. Predictive policy management of the municipal sector had addressed these problems in a completely different and active way. The red-green parties boast that municipalities are increasing their current consumption by means of people's taxes. It's no art. However, there is a danger that negligence will be committed in good time, by failing to balance money for investment, by repressing debt and by reducing future local freedom of action and by not introducing depreciation that could ensure maintenance and prevent maintenance delays. [[In the course of the installation, the civil protection warning system shall sound with the signal ‘danger above’.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e859	The president just wants to inform those who are wondering why we hear warning signals outside the hall that it's not about the local economy. It is the civil defense that has announced that they have a warning drill at 0 p.m. 12, so we can take it easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e862	I really figured that the signal outside had something to do with the local economy, because the last signal I heard was ‘the danger over’. So it actually fits well with the message in the municipal proposition. Today’s debate highlights that municipalities are a central part of the Norwegian welfare system. But the assumptions change. The population changes – it gets higher in some municipalities, and it gets lower in other municipalities. The population's composition changes, and the framework conditions for municipalities also change over time. New tasks are coming into play, and technology is developing rapidly. As we have progressed in Norway, our expectations for what we can achieve together naturally increase. When our house is newly renovated, we also expect the school to be. When we have a new PC and flat screen at home, we expect it to be proper equipment in the classroom as well. When we read on the Internet about new medicines and treatments, we also expect access to them when we get sick. We get upset when we hear about the elderly who do not have a sick home, or the unemployed who have to sit in a telephone queue to get the case handler on Nav. These are social democratic, solidarity and healthy attitudes, and this is a declaration of trust in the welfare model. Nor is it that the Norwegian welfare society has been adopted once and for all. We must defend it, but also improve it, strengthen it and renew it. We'll never finish developing the welfare community. It also requires conversion and renewal in the municipalities, and the municipalities themselves have a responsibility to implement new solutions and to make the necessary changes. It's not just money that answers the challenges we face. In the Education for Welfare Communication, the need for labour in the municipal care service is estimated to increase by 54 000 annual work by 2030, and a total of 130000 annual work by 2050. In addition, general population growth, such as requires more places in school and kindergarten, and puts pressure on municipal infrastructure. Labour is and will be a scarce resource in the municipal sector. Therefore, in order to be able to provide good services to citizens in the future, it is necessary to develop ways of providing services in a better and best way for employees to use their time. We have older people and people with disabilities who can and will contribute if we become better at providing jobs and jobs. We have a good school in this country too many, but not for everyone. We know that the best vaccine against unemployment, poverty and poor health is a good basic education and a good start to an adult life. We have a good health service, but not as good as it must be. Many people are on a waiting list, we are struggling with staff shortages, and health is also a matter of community distribution. We are good at repairing, but too bad to prevent. User studies show that people are happy with healthcare, but people are also concerned about the future of Health-Norway, about their local hospitals, about first-class treatment, and whether they get the help they need, when they need it. People want to be self-held and stay at home for as long as possible. Of course, everyone has the right to be cared for when necessary. But the really big job we're facing is to develop and further develop the home-based services. We have municipalities that think it is challenging to ensure the right skills, and enough people to do the tasks they are responsible for. We need to use the opportunities of the new technology, so that people can live in safer homes, and that many more can receive the services at home. When that's the situation, I want to remember something that Trygve Bratteli once said: ‘The welfare state is not a philosophical system. It is primarily a practical system, which is why it is also based on a variety of schemes. Nevertheless, the goal is the same: to ensure the equivalency of all people.’ Note that – primarily a practical system. The public common rules, the taxes we pay, the energy we put into organizing workers and much more, are part of this practical system. It is only practical means of achieving the objective – the policy objective, which is what we are trying to achieve. It is part of the background when the government announces a strategy for innovation in the municipal sector in spring 2013. In this context, cooperation will be started with the local government sector, workers’ organisations and industry for the development of new service models, the testing and deployment of technological aids and the use of ICT services. It will also be a good thing – a good thing where we ensure the welfare society for the future, and a new stone in the construction work that the Norwegian model is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e891	Once again, there is time for the annual debate on the financial framework of municipalities and counties in the coming year. In this context, it is necessary to recall once again that the administrative reform came from 1 January 2010 and that it has soon been in place for three years. Again, it is necessary to recall what the administrative reform entailed. This sad remnant of a fortunately stranded regional reform has resulted in the declassification of more than 17 000 km of national road through transfer to the county municipalities, and the transfer of 78 out of 95 national road sections from the state to the county. These roads had an alleged maintenance run of 12 billion. kr. The government used the principle out of sight, out of mind -- let a few more problems. In 2011, and also in 2012, there has been no lack of reports, opinions and results on county roads – roads that have become worse. There has been no lack of input, comments and results from frustrated state politicians and state bureaucrats on economic frameworks that do not allow for improvement. The operation of county roads is one of the most important tasks of the county, which through the administrative reform has become significantly more extensive and significantly more demanding. 60 pst. of the national road network changed owner of the administrative reform. The new owners knew that they took over roads with large defects, but only afterwards have they been told how bad it really was. One example among many: Upon takeover, the maintenance kit run on the roads of Møre and Romsdal was set at 700 million. kr. It went no more than a year before it was established that the bill was more than four times as large. It has been said that if this had been a used car trade, the parties would already have been on their way to the property court. The point is not to allocate blame, but to establish that the state is still responsible. That means the government. The sitting government says it has invested a lot on the road, but measured against the aftermath, it is clearly still too small, too little. The ownership has been moved to an owner with small economic muscles. Then there is a risk of responsibilities powdering. The Minister of Transport can use the index finger instead of the wallet and shift responsibility away. It is therefore necessary to establish a State programme to raise road standards to a sound level, including for county roads. It has to be cleaned up when a new national transport plan arrives, but we also have to make an effort both in the revised budget for 2012 – the Progress Party – and in the 2013 state budget. That's why the Progress Party is adding 2 billion. kr more earmarked for the county roads in the framework of the urban economic landscape for 2013. This challenge is not addressed at all in the municipal proposition. There's nothing about the county road network, as far as I've been able to observe. New in this year's debate on the local economy for the coming years is new knowledge of how it is happening on the county road network. As part of the trade unions’ proposal for a new NTP, a number of reports have been received. One of these takes into account the cost of removing the maturities associated with bridges, ferries and tunnels on the county road network. There is an estimate of approx. 18 B.C.E. kr. It's not black paint, but it's measuring the actual situation. Opinions that have come from different teams and in different ways, including: during the transport committee's visit to a number of counties, suggesting that the overall aftermath on the entire county road network, including bridges, quays and tunnels, is 40 to 50 billion. kr. That has to change, and it cannot wait until 2014. Dramatic consequences of a lack of maintenance may result in asphalt roads becoming gravel roads and reduced axle loads for users. It creates disadvantages and increases the risk to users. I remember that the county roads are the road network for most people in their everyday lives – to work, to school, to daily tasks. There is also too much transport by road, because it starts and ends on a country road – essential for value creation across the country. It's a shame the government is letting the county roads rot. The Progress Party will do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e908	Red-green policies for municipalities can be discussed at several levels. Very often it is a matter of municipal economics. There's a debate that we're more than happy to take. Nearly 60 real billion in plus since 2005 is a result we can be familiar with. But it's not the numbers that matter the most, but what the money actually does. In that perspective, perhaps the very first sentence of the municipal proposition is the most important. It says: «As a service provider, a public authority, a local democratic arena and a social developer, the communities have a major role to play in people's everyday lives.» Municipal economy is another word of well-being. The better the community economy, the better the everyday life for most people. The better the municipal economy, the better the municipalities will be able to improve the everyday life of those who do not have it so well. Children and young people who have failed care are among the most vulnerable. Therefore, strengthening child protection is one of the most important tasks of our government. There will be a notice of child protection in 2013, but it has happened and will happen a lot before that. Children who need help don't have time to wait, and we see, unfortunately, that more and more children need help. In 2010, 50 000 children received child protection measures in some form. A more spatial economy enables municipalities to provide better child protection services. In addition, the child protection promise, which is three things: resource raising in the form of earmarked funds, better organisation and better priorities. And through the child-restraint promise, municipal child-rescue now gets its biggest boost in 20 years. To take the resource promise first: in 2011, there were 240 million. kr earmarked the child protection system. There were 400 new posts in the municipalities, an increase of 12 p.m., and 52 million. for the enhancement of competence. National recruitment campaigns have been carried out to provide more foster homes, to keep those we have, and to recruit new ones. The resource promise has continued this year. New 50 earmarked million kroner have given 70 new jobs and further training of experienced employees as guides to the new colleagues. Local authorities are already reporting results: fewer deadlines, better supervision of foster homes and more children with their own action plan. There's a lot of technical words and expressions, but in sum, that means that many children who feel hurt are better off. Much is about money – for action and for employees. But better child protection is also about having a critical searchlight on how money is used. In 2004, the State took over the functions of county councils in the field of child protection. It is now time to see if the purpose was achieved – was there a better child protection? Several reports have been ordered on it from external environments, and there is a bill on the future responsibility for tasks and funding between the state and the municipality in 2013. NOU 2012:5 on better protection of children’s development is being consulted until the autumn. It's an investigation that's important to children. Important principles underpinning the assessment of take-over by children are reviewed. These are difficult balances, which can be of great importance to the child's chances for the rest of his life. Our task as politicians is to ensure that those decisions are as good as possible. Therefore, the government will review these principles as an important part of the child protection promise. Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party say little about child protection in their comments. Then perhaps it can be interpreted as a support for the government's child-restraint lift. All they're saying is that there's a need for increased resources to recruit foster homes, but they're little concrete. What does that even mean? Access to good foster homes is about more things. Recruitment campaigns are already underway, as I mentioned. The foster home system needs to be better known, including in minority settings. Good new recruitment also depends on the good experience of current foster parents and recommends this to others in their network. The child protection promise is also about resources and employees to follow up today's foster home in a good way. However, the very best thing for each child is good prevention to prevent care failure. Good local economy makes that task easier. This government is betting on both. And it's actually this Right Trond of Greece in his post said this: there's an ever-increasing amount of money drawn into the treasury, to be distributed according to the red-green discretion. Yes, the child-rescue promise is good for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e939	All municipalities should be able to provide equally good services in kindergarten, school, care and care throughout the country. It is an objective to have a fairest and most appropriate income base for municipalities. This also applies to kindergartens in municipalities. In 2005, 76 pst went. by Norwegian children in kindergarten. In 2012 it is all 90 pst. by Norwegian children in kindergarten, and in the five-year-old group, it is 97 pst. who goes to kindergarten. That's high and joyous numbers. It shows that the government, in close cooperation with the municipalities and private authorities, has succeeded in building kindergartens. In press areas, there will still be a need to build kindergartens, although today we have full kindergarten coverage. The abolition of cash support for two-year-olds led to an increase in the need for kindergartens. The government therefore introduced an increase in transfers to municipalities in the revised national budget so that they can build more kindergartens. However, some municipalities have chosen to introduce municipal cash support for the two-year-olds. The working party is skeptical of such a scheme. Is it really a political desire for parents to be at home with their children, or is it a bypass from local politicians to prioritize money for the elderly, school and other things? We have received signals about this, but we reserve the right to have clear figures that this may be the motivation for having cash support under municipal law. By doing so, municipalities will circumvent the obligation of full child care coverage. How do we want the kindergartens of the future to be? The government plans to provide a big message on the future of kindergartens during the winter of 2013. The staging notification shall provide a clear direction of what kindergartens will be in the future. There are proposals from several different sample sizes to be assessed and seen in the context of the work on the new Storing Communication. The Ministry of Knowledge, via the Directorate of Education and the State, is closely involved in the situation of non-municipal kindergartens following the introduction of the framework funding for the nursery sector. The Ministry of Knowledge has also had a close dialogue with the National Association of Private Barnehagers, PBL. In addition, KS and PBL have cooperated to contribute to a more coherent regulatory practice in the sector. A review has also been provided to see whether the provision for equivalent treatment works according to the intention, because it is important that the non-municipal kindergartens have a predictable and fair funding. The majority of the Committee looks forward to the outcome of the review and the outcome of the cooperation between PBL and KS. The Ministry of Knowledge presented Prop on 27 April 2012. 98 L for 2011-2012, Changes to the Kindergarten Act, which propose provisions to ensure that the municipal grant and parental payment in non-municipal kindergartens are used in line with the objective and benefit the children in kindergarten. The proposal sets out conditions and frameworks for the use of the government grant and the parental payment and sets out documentation requirements to the owner in order to ensure their use in accordance with the objective. Municipalities may also use economic means of reaction to non-municipal kindergartens where the grant and parental payment are not used as provided for in the proposed provisions. The working party sees the quality of kindergartens as an important area of activity, both in terms of staff competence and in terms of the quality of premises and outdoor areas. The government has greatly increased the capacity for primary and continuing education for pre-school teachers in recent years, and it is necessary to keep up the pressure as the shortage of pre-school teachers has remained stable over several years. This will, of course, also be discussed in the big picture coming in the course of the year. With regard to the childcare effort in the municipalities, I would like to refer to the contribution of the representative, Christoffersen, who draws on the importance of safe and good kindergartens, and that both children with a minority background and other children can go to kindergarten and get a close follow-up before they go to school. This is also part of the work we are doing in the extension of the child's hail.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e967	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e970	It's in the municipalities we live our lives. It's primarily here that people meet the welfare community. It is the municipalities that provide most of the services to help make childhood safe, school good, care close to home and health care fast. After seven years of red-green government, the municipalities have provided a lot of new welfare. That's the most obvious proof that prioritizing welfare over tax cuts means a difference. An expression of this is that the number of ROBEK municipalities has been halved, from 118 ROBEK municipalities in 2004 under the Bondevik II government to 52 today. Another expression is that municipalities have on average employed 25 new people each day with a red-green government. In care and care, 22,000 new people are employed. It's actually an effort that means a difference for those who have access to those services. The list of what has happened in municipalities during these years is long — full child care coverage, more elderly care, implementation of the Interaction Reform, hundreds of schools that have been refurbished, and perhaps all, all the most important: school results are on the rise. It is the Community's greatest contribution to ensuring social cohesion and equal opportunities for all. A good community economy is the foundation of the welfare society. In the municipal proposition that we are discussing here today, and which lays down the financial framework for the municipal sector next year, municipalities get significantly more money and space for action than before. In addition, I would like to stress the job done by the government to ensure safe financial management, to stick to the rule of action and to do what you can to prevent interest jumps, which will impose a significant extra charge on the municipalities. This does not mean that Norwegian municipalities still need to make priorities, streamline and find new solutions. I have great confidence in local democracy and the ability of local politicians to find good solutions that are tailored to the needs where people live. But I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party continue to point to more competition and market as a sesame-sesame solution that will create more well-being. The Right Party and the Advance Party are free to do in the municipalities they control, but the results are waiting. These are the orientation choices that we are making here on the Biggest, which in any case become very critical of what local democracy has the ability to accomplish, and then it is important that we continue to give priority to municipal welfare over tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e987	The municipalities will retain more of the revenue and have a stable good income development if there is a majority for the right-wing parties in the elections next year, says Højres Trond Helleland in the debate here today. This is at best the emperor's new clothes. In all the issues we are debating now, it is clear that the right-wing parties are thinking about election fighting. They wear clothes that don't exist, other than in the campaign. There are certainly no rapporteurs who want to return to Erna Solberg's time as Minister of State. Everyone still remembers Erna's hunger feeding of the municipalities to force the municipalities to merge and operate more efficiently. This led to poorer provision in schools, care for the elderly and health and social services. What is it in the policy of the right-wing parties to have confidence that this will be different now, and that the municipalities will have more revenue in a right-wing government? Now, if we look at what the Right Party and the Advance Party have written in their comments on the City Proposition, we might find the answers. Here, the Right says, among other things.\t\t You can change ‘The members of the Committee of the Right have proposed a financial framework for the municipal sector in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 which had provided municipalities with an economic space in line with the arrangements of the Government.’» If the government's arrangement is so bad, why do they put themselves on the same line? In addition, they say: ‘In contrast to the regime of the government, an overall approach from the Right would have meant a more even growth for the sector, continued focus on efficiency and renewal and expectations of the sector in accordance with the economic framework.’ What does that mean? Yes, I read it as if Erna Solberg were going to continue the line she started on in the Bondevik administration. And what does the Progress Party say, which has also started the election campaign and will reign with the Right from 2013? Yes: ‘These members have a different municipal policy starting point from the other parties, and the core of the municipal policy of these members is to increase the individual’s freedom of action by limiting public intervention and restrictions.’ They say in their program that they ‘will complete the framework funding system through a combination of free municipal tax law and state-subsidy financing of primary school and care tasks, based on the principles of freedom of choice and compliance with the public money’. While the Right and Christian People's Party in the position of the City Proposition is part of the majority that believes ‘the Norwegian framework management system of municipalities provides good welfare services and good local democratic governance. With framework funding, municipalities themselves prioritise between tasks. A comprehensive responsibility for national tasks makes it possible for municipalities to prioritize and make overall balances between tasks and sectors within their local authority. By delimiting the use of earmarked grants, municipalities are given the greatest possible autonomy in priorities and adaptation to local conditions. However, earmarking may be appropriate for a period of time in order to build up an offer in the municipalities». The media often focuses on the right parties talking together and agreeing on some issues, but just as important as the parties talking to each other, is what they're actually saying. The quotations show that it can be a challenge for the right-wing parties to agree on such a fundamental issue, and the municipalities face an uncertain future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1026	Right Trond Helleland claims that the Right does not paint black in his remarks and in this debate. I allow myself to quote from the remarks of the Right and Advance Party: ‘These members consider that the alleged financial promise for the municipal sector is not real. These members point out that, although the level of activity in the municipal sector has increased, this does not lead to an improvement in the ability of municipalities to provide better services to their inhabitants.» Is it possible, even for the Right Party and the Advance Party, to claim that the services have not improved, and that the increase in activity triggered by 59 billion. Do not allow municipalities to provide better services to their inhabitants? I'm just asking. Policy rhetoric is important. Aksel Hagen pointed this out in both an informative and funny way: Iron Erna has become Human, not Billion Erna. I was the rapporteur under Erna Solberg as Minister of State. It was not marked by freedom, nor by the freedom of underfunded transfers, I can promise. But I have seen for myself here in the Storting that Iron Erna and Human, not Billion Erna, are one and the same person. The rhetoric is embellished, the content is the same. The right has as much money in the pot of the municipalities as the government. Nevertheless, the rotation of rhetoric will give municipalities expectations that there will be a significant increase in funds. How can this be avoided when the Right presents freedom from underfunded reforms? Is it possible to perceive such a statement as redistribution within the municipal sector, as it must be when the pot is equal? The award of the prize has been depreciated. We've heard that from Trond Helleland. It's not going to be implemented – you can forget it. The Christian People's Party participates in a note with the Right and the Advance Party to change the tax distribution of the large majority of municipalities. Becquerading violence has said in the change of line that the Christian People's Party does not believe that any municipalities should lose. The question then is, how can the Christian People's Party reduce tax equalization in a zero-sum game like this, and assume that no one will lose? It's mathematically impossible. I look forward to the answer. Sigbjørn Johnsen said at the time of the submission of the State budget for 2012: ‘A lost expenditure depends on a lost income’. How to explain it is going to be interesting to bring with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1046	It's interesting to follow the debate in the hall and the big commitment that's around the municipalities. This is a lot about economics, it is about level, and it is interesting that the right-wing representative Tetzschner says, ‘I guess the growth of income falls to a more normal level’. Then I must be allowed to ask the representative Tetzschner: Will ‘a more normal level’ mean the level one had in the time Right put in the Ministry of Local Affairs? Or what is ‘a more normal level’ of income growth? It might be interesting to bring it with you. There are other things that are also worth noting. The left is constantly busy with municipal structure and claims that municipalities do not take responsibility for providing good services to their own citizens – that is, some municipalities do not. I would like to ask the representative Tenden to be a little more concrete. What municipalities are those that do not take responsibility for providing their own services to their inhabitants? In what municipalities are the inhabitants extremely dissatisfied with those services? In what municipalities is there poor coverage with regard to competent teachers with vocational training, competent pre-school teachers with vocational training? Which municipalities have the highest coverage of trade union staff? It might be interesting to know when a claim is made that some municipalities do not take responsibility for providing good services to their own inhabitants, because there are strong words from Stortinget's pulpit. I'm proud that we've got a tax equalization that makes all the municipalities get a share in the big tax growth we have, because it's going well in the Norwegian economy. An estimate of what happens if the Right gets multiples for its policies – it's true that one cannot be exactly exact on the cost equalization, but it's clear that one can look at how the tax equalization looks – shows that, for example, it's not possible to do so. The modality in Hordaland is plus 7.3 million. kr, while e.g. Fat gets minus 3.5 million. kr. Then it's clear that there's a big deal for individual municipalities if Right gets multiples for its policy. There are also major consequences if the Progress Party has multiple policies. They're going to wind up the small commune. In a municipality like Selje, in my own country, one will lose approx. One and a half million. kr because the tax equalisation is gone and one receives another tax income, but one will lose 5 million. kr because the small municipality bill is gone. The reason for this is that it is more expensive to provide good services where there are scattered bus services and large distances, such as in the municipality of Selje. It costs more than in built-in areas. That's why we have a small municipality in 157 municipalities. It doesn't matter the big one - 1 pst. of the municipality, but that means a lot to all the 157 municipalities that get the property. It should have been interesting to right what the Progress Party will say to them when they're going to lose their $5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1058	According to the results of the accounts, the municipal councillor points out that the municipalities are doing well. My claim is that the accounting system of the municipalities is what makes the result look like it is. Had the municipalities carried out accounting for an accounting system that is similar to that of other companies, rather than the cash principle, the accounts of the municipalities would be dramatically poor. My claim is that what happens in the municipalities is that they don't spend money on some things, not least on maintenance, and that results in they avoid spending the funds they should have spent to keep on such things, for example. public buildings. Thus, municipal accounting does not reflect this. If one were to follow the usual accounting system, with depreciation that shows the state and the actual ratio of the municipalities, the results would be dramatically poor and large deficits in the municipalities. We see that from what's going on around, that it's public buildings and, for example, it's public buildings. Schools that must be closed because they are in such a constitution that students cannot be there. So it was shown from both the municipal minister and the representative Heidi Greni that they have KS with them. I want to point out what happened last year, where KS has pointed out, usually, that there's nothing left of what's inside of free income. The expenses that these free incomes are supposed to cover, and according to my mind, the KS has shown that there is less on the number at several times. Then I will refer to the letter from KS dated 7 June, which also shows that one will receive large expenses that have not been with us before, cf. the installation of Michael Tetzschner. KS indicates that the government should take this into account in the 2013 State budget. That was the basis for my question to Heidi Greni, i.e. KS indicates that they have more expenditure than income.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1067	I have noticed something that I experience as a habit at the Council of Ministers of Navarsete, namely that she spends part of her allocated time acting quite polemically towards individual parties in Stortinget, rather than dealing with the real points of view expressed in the debate, which may be of interest to illuminate. So, her second post was better than the first, because at least she started with something I said. When I referred to the framework conditions of the local government sector, I said that at a high level of indebtedness would be very vulnerable to changes – which are beyond a normal level – in municipal subsidies. But I also showed that, together with interest rate rises and other conditions on which the municipalities depend, one is in a debt trap, where one still has to compensate to serve the debt in order for the municipality not to have to cut down, for example. 20 B.C.E. kr on the operation, under given conditions. It was the real issue that I tried to address in my post, and then I think we should have a conversation about those perspectives. I want to return to the Council of State – since she chose not to go into what I took up in my first post, which must be addressed – and say that the Financial Supervisory Authority in letter of 4 June has announced that it wants to reduce the interest rate on new earnings in life insurance from 2.5 p.m. to 2 pst. This is a little technical, but according to the estimates in the draft consultation from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, with effect from 2013 – which is the year to which the municipal proposal applies – the municipalities will already incur a liquidity loss of 3 billion. kr. Since there is no ‘punishment at the time of slaughter’, it would have been interesting to hear whether the Council of State will follow the proposal of the Financial Supervisory Authority and say: ‘No, we do not, because the interest rate on the calculation will have to lead to action on the real wage rate, which is determined by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Now the Council of State has the opportunity to say from the spokesperson of Storting that this problem will not arise, because we are not going to follow up the consequences of the draft consultation of the Financial Supervisory Authority. It would be a very simple and concrete question to answer in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1078	It was Hilde Magnusson who primarily made me speak. It was her interpretations of the municipal cash support where I have some problems following her whole reasoning – which she will probably understand. I do not know why the Workers' Party in several municipalities is involved in investigating, and even voting for, a municipal cash support. I don't think that's because you want to bypass the requirement for full babysitting, as the representative said, or that it's a strong desire to get women back to the kitchen bench. Maybe it has to do with actually wanting to offer the freedom of choice that the government is reducing? Maybe it has to do with the fact that you think it's completely unreasonable, what the government has put up with, that those who have been granted cash support get it withdrawn, and then it's too late to sit in a babysitting queue and get the babysitting place that you're preaching that you're actually entitled to? There are many families around the municipality of Norway who are put in this situation, and they are put there with the red-green blessing. Therefore, I feel that there are quite others who should answer why you have restricted freedom of choice, and not just that – you have done it in such a way that you have made sure that many families come in a difficult divorce from the coming harvest. I would like to address another matter where I have not really intended to polemise against the government, but which is an observation I have made through many meetings with municipal politicians, where I have seen how the forward projections for the pension costs of the municipalities are. It can be said with great certainty that the freedom of action of municipalities will be severely limited by the explosive cost developments that will take place in the case of pensions. The representative Tetzschner now took up a moment that would further contribute in this way, if implemented. However, it is interesting to see – when we are presented with the economic prospects for the municipalities – how pension expenditure has exploded, and which, as many say, makes you largely refuse to hire more people, because the costs are as high as they have become, in addition to the pure wage costs. I'm not saying this to polemize, but I'm assuming this is a challenge that the government also thinks it's relevant to look at, and that will affect the local economy then to those degrees in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1091	It's interesting to discuss numbers, real growth and total income, and I'm glad that the government adds up to a real growth of between 5 and 6 billion. kr in the total income of the local government sector next year. That's a lot of money. But in this debate on numbers and growth, there is also a good opportunity to talk about what these figures really are about. Services, someone says. I'd say they're about learning and caring mainly. The school is one of the largest expenditure posts in the municipality. At the same time, it is the most important expenditure item we have – it is our future. If we are to be able to realise the potential of children and young people and meet the expectations that we as national authorities have for school, we are completely dependent on good local economy. Municipal economy means kindergarten, school and care. That is why, in fact, the municipal minister is a very important minister of knowledge and a very important minister of care. People are different, and that's also the municipalities. That's why I'm also glad that almost 5 billion. kr of the total crop will be transferred in the form of free income. It allows the politicians who were elected to the local government last autumn to give priority to what needs to be prioritized in their municipality. We believe that the best way to solve the problems of local welfare services is to transfer checks to municipalities with a nominal amount and purpose. I have more faith that the competent local government representative has the ability to make priorities for its municipality. Therefore, it is demanding to be a municipal politician. It's about being conscious of its role, among other things. as the school owner and, in particular, the responsibilities and opportunities attached thereto. Freedom comes with responsibility. I will not underestimate that in many municipalities there are difficult choices when the municipal budgets are to be added. The representative Tenden from the left said that many municipalities did not get started with electives for the autumn because it was not funded, and that those who start with the offer have to pick up the money from other things. To that I would say that it is funded. All 8th-class students shall be offered choice courses for the autumn. The fact that the offer is not as wide everywhere is natural, all the time the school size is different. But it's going to change for the better when all students from 8th to 10th grade get elective. I would rather direct attention to the use of special education. It takes a lot of resources in municipalities, and it's absolutely necessary, but there's a growing tendency to use special education as you get older, i.e. to 10th grade. Extra efforts at an early stage will be able to remedy a trend that will result in more and more people getting special education the older they get. We are responsible for providing enough funds to achieve early action, but it is also a responsibility of the school owner, the local maritime administration, to give priority to early action. It can save a lot of money, even in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1108	First of all, I am pleased that this debate on the municipal proposal shows that the four opposition parties in more and more areas have the same reality and proposals for action. It is a pleasure to note that the Left too will support the three joint proposals that have been tabled, and we in the Right will, for our part, announce support for the Left's proposal, No. 8 which has been posted in the seats of the representatives. Then we get accusations of black paint. On the one hand, we are told that we have supported the frameworks laid by the government, so it can't be that wrong, on the other hand we paint black. But the reality is that we want the same framework for the municipal sector as for the government parties. We have voted in favour of that in previous years, and will do so this year. But we want another device. And then the sayings come that it will lead to the complete dismantling of small municipalities, and that many will lose etc. But we have said – and I repeat it – that we will of course see this in a context. Just as the red-green government today develops an income system that they think is right, we will of course also develop an income system that we believe is right. That is why I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right agree that running value creation in their own municipality and developing jobs in the municipality is something to be valued, not punished. The fact that a municipality is able to produce tax revenue is something you should pay, not punish. So I almost have to pull a little bit on the smile-band of the ever-recurring schizophrenia associated with Erna Solberg as a human being and Jern-Erna. Now Erna isn't here today, unfortunately, and can defend himself, but I don't think that's necessary, because if you follow developments, both in terms of Right Policy and also in terms of how people perceive the so-called Iron Erna today, then people don't see a scare picture, they're not afraid of it. They want a change, and Erna appears to be the politician who can contribute to this change. The right is concerned with one thing: the municipalities are the most important arena for people's everyday lives. The municipalities must therefore be given greater confidence, they must have greater power to design their own everyday life, and the state must interfere less. This is the main difference between the views of the Workers' Party and the Right of the Municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1119	In general, one should be careful to refer to its colleagues in the Stortinget with medical diagnosis. It should also be avoided in the case of diagnostics belonging to psychiatry. We shouldn't talk about each other that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1122	I think, like previous speakers, that today's debate is interesting, because it helps to clarify differences in political choices. I also think it is quite interesting to have a demonstration in the politics of those who say that they have ambitions to take over the management of Kommune-Norway. So where the Right believes that the frames are OK or maybe a little bit towards the normal high, as was said here, the Progress Party is completely overdue. That's the government's proposal plus $3.5 billion. kr to, which is money the Progress Party does not have. That money doesn't have the Progress Party when they promise tens of billions of dollars in tax bills, plus all major transportation projects are going into the state budget. It is the same in politics, as it is for each of us, that cuts in income must mean cut in expenditure, and then I wonder – because we have not yet made that quite clear: when do we really get the answer to where in the welfare it is to be cut, and whether the Right and Advance Party agree or disagree on that point? So it's also equally interesting to see where they unite. Trond Helleland put great emphasis on the competitive deployment of public services, and Hagesetter said that competition is a good thing, so then we can well expect that with the Right and the Advance Party we can expect a comprehensive privatisation of public welfare services. What I wonder about then is, What services? Then I have another question: shall it no longer be that it is up to the municipalities themselves how a person chooses to align himself in that area, or should it now be centralised and determined by accumulation and government? But I really hope that both employees and users of public welfare services are aware of the competitive and privatisation ambition, because it is enough of bad experience to point out, both in terms of the quality of services and employment of employees in this regard. Finally, Trond Helleland made a claim that we red-green are opponents of local value creation and income development, while with the Right and Advance Party at the rudder business is to flourish. Then I just want to remember the following: With red-green times in the country, there are now 300,000 more jobs than when we took over. Two thirds of them are in the private sector, despite the financial crisis and dark economic clouds around us on all sides. Under Bondevik II, there were only 25 000 more jobs, so these statistics are actually fairly self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1133	The debate is now approaching the end, and I shall not make statements that in any way condone him. But I think it has been interesting to observe that from the government party it has been a major focus on a civil government in 2013. I think it makes sense for the red-green parties to use their speaking time in the debate on the municipal proposition for 2013 to anticipate a fallow team next year. From some – e.g. Ingarill Olsen – there was some concern that the Progress Party would not get through to its funding system with the need-driven state funding of basic services – or a piece price, as she would call it. Here, the Progress Party and the other civil parties have a different starting point, but the Progress Party is not concerned about it, because we think we're going to be a few of them. So I hope that also the representative Ingelill Olsen can lower his shoulders when this is the case. It was also said by Lise Christoffersen that there is a gap between the bourgeois parties: while the Right does not give any more money to the municipalities, it is a complete outburst from the Advance Party. Well, we think the municipalities should have 1.5 billion. kr more. There are others, among others. organisations with similar numbers. So in addition to that, we have 2 billion. kr that we think will go to the road sector, where there is a maintenance run that grows by several billions from year to year. Even if the Progress Party had got a plurality for its budget – which Lise Christoffersen defines as a complete overdraft – it would mean that the maintenance run with our scheme would have grown next year, despite the fact that we want more money for the municipalities. The Council of State also mentions this with small municipal outreachs. I can't see that the small municipality proposition is a theme in the municipal proposition at all. On the other hand, we have one thing, no. 2, which we are going to debate afterwards, where the small community is central. Then I think we should take this into account in that debate, not interfere with the debate on the communicative proposition, where there has been no theme. The Council of State was also concerned that with the income system of a civil government, the modale would get more and Fedje less. Both these municipalities belong to North Hordland and - yes...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1148	To conclude, the Progress Party did not get to say: the example of these two municipalities shows how bad it will be in terms of tax equalization. I notice that the right in the debate is now once again trying to turn away from the consequences of its own policies on the harmonisation of taxes between municipalities. They refer to the reservations made by KRD in the calculation of the difference between the tax allocation of the government and the Right. It is true that there have been many changes in the overall income system in recent years and that it is difficult to compare with the previous government. But the calculations that have been made show the consequences of the tax equalization right will have, and the right repeats it in today's position in the municipal proposition. The right has meant this at every crossroad where this has been discussed in recent years. The right now sees the consequences of its own policies, backs and tries to turn away. But the policy is so firm and has been doing so for years. But there's no doubt that if we take into account the Right Tax Balancing, 88 pst. by Norwegian municipalities tape. It'll make bigger differences. So Trond Helleland says that they will launch municipalities that drive business development, and facilitate jobs. I think very few will believe that the Workers' Party is not concerned with jobs and value creation. However, if the Right’s reasoning that there is a link between this and the municipalities’ tax revenues is correct, it must mean that the Right believes that nine out of ten municipalities are not engaged in facilitating businesses and jobs. I have not met any local politicians who are not involved in jobs and development in their municipality. However, the point is that this is not a matter of industrial development. It is a question of whether or not we should accept large differences in the welfare offer to the inhabitants of Norwegian municipalities. The right believes that major differences are quite right, the Labour Party believes that this is not right. That's the real political difference. The Workers' Party has a proud nutrition policy slogan: «Creating and sharing». We do not suspect Right that we do not want to create. I think we're just as concerned about that, but they don't have the rest of the slogan, 'parts'. They'll share less.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1159	Vestfold County Municipality has recently ordered, and received, three reports on state transfers to the municipal sector. Not surprisingly, the report demonstrates that Westfold is receiving poor payoffs in the distribution of government transfers to regional development, industrial development and to municipalities. Even less surprising are the main conclusions of the reports, namely that the local economy needs to be strengthened and that the key to distribution should be changed so that the level of income in our municipalities can be improved. In this way, Westfold shares its destiny with parts of Akershus and Eastfold. Probably there is a widespread perception also in this room that we who live on the sun coast, along the Oslo Earth, live a carefree life in the eternal sun and summer. As a consequence of this view, it is almost natural that our part of the country should have the lowest transfers and the worst municipal economy in the country. It's all connected. However, it should worry more than us who represent these states, that our inhabitants are also at the bottom of all living conditions statistics. Therefore, we have consistently argued that people's living conditions need to be given greater weight when allocating funds to municipalities. I therefore noticed that the Council of State in its contribution placed a strong emphasis on a fair distribution of municipal income as a basis for an equivalent service offer. This promises good for the Vestfold municipalities. Now it is to be added that the gradual improvement of the municipal economy since the government change in 2005 is also noticed in our municipalities. I am pleased that the government in 2013 provides a good financial basis for the further development of the welfare offer in the municipalities. In view of that, I am amazed that the Right in its alternative budgets proposes that the redistribution of municipal tax revenues should be reduced. In plain terms, this means that municipalities should retain more of their tax revenues and that less should be redistributed. It will mean less income to the Vestfold municipalities. Our municipalities are clearly less well distributed under such a regime. I have not realized that in my county there is a widespread desire to improve the economy of the richest municipalities. So it's not less redistribution we need, it's more. Besides, we know that the Right Party and the Advance Party will bring significant tax relief to the best-situated, and then, as you know, the pot will be even smaller. Nevertheless, in my opinion, it is clear that the Right now is promoting such proposals. It's clarifying in an impending campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1172	I am surprised that the representative, Mr Hagesetter, can say that the small community proposal does not belong in this debate. For 157 district municipalities with large distances, scattered services and expensive services, it means a lot, and one cannot see one thing independently of the other – 1 pst. by the frame and yet so important to a large part of the municipality of Norway. The 157 municipalities should look closely at their budgets – to the extent that the Progress Party comes close to government power, something we should do to prevent, among other things. by having a fair distribution, through tax distribution, through small community grants, through basic grants, which enable all municipalities to provide good services. But the reason I took the floor was a direct question from the representative, Tetzschner, about the Financial Supervisory Board's hearing about reducing the interest rate on life insurance and pension funds, from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst., with effect from 2013. The proposal from the Financial Supervisory Authority is based on the fact that the government bond rate is expected to be low over the coming years. This will result in an increase in pension contributions from 2013 and an increase in the calculated pension costs from 2014. As a general rule, during September, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will fix real wages and salaries, which affect pension costs for 2013. This is what we do every year, we will do this year, and we will do it after dialogue with KS and with the providers of municipal pensions. That's why I can't now take a look at how I want to deal with this. I'll come back to that in the budget. I will have a review of the local government’s pension costs in 2013 in the State budget for 2013. So we're going to come back to that debate, with a good foundation from my side and from the department's side, in the budget proposal that we're going to put forward now in the fall. But it is an important question – it is a very important issue that the representative Tetzschner raises – and I take it with the utmost seriousness that there is a real debate that we should also take, both in the budget and in the next debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1184	I would first like to repeat my congratulations to the Right of this process, where one has entered into the centre, entered further into the core of the Norwegian social model. It is interesting to see that the Progress Party is also in a hurry, and is in the middle of a programme work, and will obviously go even further as part of that programme work. And then there's some trifle left – and now I'm trying to be ironic; it's not that easy to be ironic from this pulpit here in the Stortinget. It is like some grains of sand, still, after the blue government shoes, that go on with total disagreement about the overall framework of the municipal sector, but not least – and that is the main point here – on this that one party wants framework management, while the other wants 100 pst. rights-driven municipal welfare, funded by the State. Here are really two paradigms. So, as I said, good luck with the writing. Then there's something I don't get to go up here either, as workers' party representatives have been good at stressing: Trond Helleland calls it another device. It's that the frame is given, and that someone should get more in Kommune-Norway, because they deserve it, while those who don't get more, in a given frame or get less – no, I'm sorry, they won't get less, because there's a whole here that's going to be in place. Those who get more of a given cake should not, however, be indirectly affected, because there is no one who gets less in any way. There's a whole here that somehow has to go into place. There is also a need to write more in the programme work ahead. So Liv Signe Navarsete does something that we're doing to a very small extent – just to point out all the great work that's going on in the municipalities. The claim from us here in the Stortinget that Kommune-Norge is standing still, and that there is so little change work, is not correct. This change has so much of a value creation ambition in itself. But what we should discuss, or perhaps even more curiously examine, is what are the good examples of all the change work. There are different practices. I am part of those who have a great sense of all the fine things that are now happening in the development programme «Saman om ein better kommune», which is based on what is ideologically so great with the Norwegian model of society – as well as the Right in the last few years, and after each progressing party, I count on shelves. Just this tripartite cooperation is at the heart of the good development work out there. Similarly, as I mentioned in my main post, I am skeptical of much of the change that is presented in the last report from the Trade Union, this market correction that is so marked that it is almost an explosive growth in different companies and companies. That's not the good change work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1195	It is interesting to sit and listen to the debate today, but it is also worrying. I was most concerned about listening to the municipal minister who seemed to the degrees surprised that there was a failure in the welfare offer in some municipalities. It is obvious that the Minister of State needs a real orientation. I'm going to take one example of a red-green welfare policy that doesn't work. It's an example of child protection. Health authorities claim that municipalities are failing child protection. Forty-four out of 44 municipalities that were checked in 2011 did a bad job. Exposured children do not receive the services they need, when they need it, and there are inadequate management systems in the majority of municipalities surveyed. The Health Director takes a serious view of the matter: “The fact that we can’t take care of our children is one of the greatest weaknesses of the welfare society. – The biggest betrayal against the children is that there are people who see them, but then they don’t get the follow-up that is necessary.” It's sad to read examples of red-green welfare policy that don't work. It's sad to hear too often about red-green welfare policy that doesn't work. And it's sad to hear that the red-green welfare offers are presented in a completely different way from the pulpit here today, than many people experience in the municipalities. I could mention many examples, for example: That's 30 pst. of the children who are not subject to the statutory supervision they are required to show that last year's COSTRA shows that the queues of child-resistance cases continue to increase dramatically. For kids who experience this, it's serious. This is serious for the kids who are being hit. We have a government that has run out of ideas. But that they are also against all new proposals for improvements and solutions, that scares me. Now the government has practically vacuumed the municipal child protection for competence and ploughed it into a massive child protection bureaucracy. It's almost doubled in four years. Now we're spending almost more resources on child protection bureaucracy than on child protection work. When the municipalities go to the municipal minister and ask her to take responsibility for child protection because they see that the responsibilities of powdering go out on the young, they get a no. The need for municipalities to take on board vulnerable child protection and not to build robust child protection services to enable them to provide the assistance they require is worrying. I could have wished for a municipal minister and a government that, although they had gone empty of ideas, had accepted proposals for new solutions with open arms.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1213	It was Trond Helleland's representative who made me take the floor. The representative stood here and told about this debate which demonstrates this violent consensus among the opposition parties. Now I come from Tøndelag, so it's possible I have a little bit heavy for it, but I have a completely different experience of what this debate presents. We have had a longer debate on the issue of tax equalisation. Here the Christian People's Party says no one should lose on this system. The Progress Party argues that we need more money for the local government sector, while the Right says that the framework we have is right, it just needs to be redistributed in a different way. None of the lots that are also against the taxes on wealth has addressed the question: when an estimated 10 billion. kr in the tax base, which will be the impact on the local government sector, where will it be collected? Even with the ambitious addition of the Advance Party in relation to what the Right believes is too much, it becomes small money against the 10 billion. If you remove the property tax, you want to remove it. As regards the issue of municipal structure, which is also addressed in this debate, the Left and Right seem to leave the voluntary line, while the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party say that volunteering is the basis. It must of course be seen in the light of the fact that the Progress Party has said that there should be a maximum of the number of municipalities here in the country. At the moment, it's the roof, at least as it's referred to in Today's Business, a maximum of 99 municipalities. This is to be done on a voluntary basis. Then it's the economic system, which demonstrates a spaga that can't go up. The party of progress, which is thus the second largest party in the Stortinget, argues that here we should leave what the other parties are all about – a framework management system that has confidence and trust and shows efficiency through the rule of local democracy – and have tailor-made support for its inhabitants. Here the Progress Party will have a completely different system. Now, for three years, we've been trying to get the Progress Party to describe what this system is really all about, but we're referred to it as we'll see it once in the future. Now this has been a little clarified in the last debates we've had here in the Chamber. It was probably the representative of Greece – again – who, a few weeks ago, dismissed the solution of the Progress Party with the fact that the large majority is also a majority. It doesn't seem like the Progress Party is taking it very seriously that they don't get any impact on their policies. I – like many others – find it funny that the small municipal grant should not be part of the debate in the municipal proposition. That's part of the municipal income system, of course. The fact that the representative Hagesetter does not think it is pleasant that it is pointed out, and that it is going to be difficult to meet the citizens of the municipalities that are being affected, we will probably get to live with. But the big question -- what's left in the air -- is that neither we who have power today, nor the voters, know what we get with the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1230	I think it might be said that the previous speaker has a little heavy for what he himself said. There are a lot of things that this government doesn't deliver either, for example. in housing policy, which is very important to many. At least the opposition has made proposals in the Storting that the red-greens have voted down – without making a single proposal. All people live in a municipality, but all people also live in a dwelling. Therefore, the government should at least have been able to present a housing policy, rather than leave it to the Financial Supervisory Authority. Enough about that. It was a little humorous to listen to the representative Hagen. He meant to see that the blue parties were moving step by step towards the center. He thought that was good, because there was the Norwegian model of society. It is quite interesting to hear it from an SV who believes that he is himself in the most radical government in Europe, far from the centre – and who has a former Marxist as leader. So I think you should be a little bit more careful about ironing over other parts and rather look at how you try to position yourself. What has shaped this debate at the overall level is a lot of praise from the Red-Greens for a safe economic governance, with a claim – between the lines – that supposedly this government manages to prioritise the money better. Therefore, things are better in 2012 than they were in 2005. But it makes no sense to compare the Stoltenberg government's budget for this year with the Bondevik government's budget for 2005, for the expenditure side of this year is 350 billion. kr higher. Then it is not difficult to show that you have money for everything – and more than the Bondevik government had. What is relevant in such a debate is to compare what the government proposes for one year, with what the other parties propose that same year. Then the priorities will be clear. But when the Progress Party shows what we want to give priority to this year, there will be a sudden overdraft. Then it is not allowed to prioritise more than what the government does – then it automatically becomes irresponsible. That's not the way to discuss it. We have to look at the individual years and compare them with each other. We give priority to care, we give priority to education, and we give priority to transportation – primary tasks to be done by municipalities. It's important. But then the government says no; it's not possible to prioritize like that, then you have to start laying down hospitals. As soon as the Progress Party talks about tax relief being good for business, it is said that the sick homes have to disappear. It says a lot about the red-green ones. There's nothing to say about the Progress Party. We believe that it is possible to improve efficiency and priorities in the public sector in another way. It is possible to improve the purchasing systems of the state and the public sector, as Menon showed in a report to the Academics. You can save 30 billion. kr. There are no sick home places The party seems to be of the least importance – it is possible the red-green think so, but not the Progress Party. So let's look at the totality here, how we can use a government budget of over 1,000 billion. to ensure that municipalities provide better services, but also that ordinary people can retain a little more of their income.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1245	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1248	Just a brief comment on the post to Hofstad Helleland. Before – when it was still the case that the media was busy with our debates – it was said, with the demands of reliability, that when the high mountain soles of the NRK arrived in the hall, everyone ran up and kept their posts back. I would like to take my post again to honor Hofstad Helleland, but I do not have time for that. She would rather read it in the minutes. So we're not empty of ideas about child protection. There's a message coming up, and there's a proposition coming up in 2013. It's about supervision, it's about organisation, it's about money, and we're actually going to have two issues about child protection at our group meeting today – it's not the first time either. Finally, Solvik-Olsen says that there is no comparison – the cost side is 350 billion. kr higher today. Yeah, when there's more money, the expenses are also growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1257	The representative Aksel Hagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1260	First to Lise Christoffersen: Media is here – Municipal Report is sitting over here. Secondly, the representative Solvik-Olsen must hear a little more carefully after commenting on my post. Yes, I said that the writing process in the Right and the Advance Party – these two parties – goes into the centre. Yes, I said that the writing process takes them closer to what is at the heart of the Norwegian model. I didn't say the Norwegian model was in the center. If I have to say something about it – this I have not checked out with the national meeting or Audun Lysbakken – the current version of the Norwegian model is social democratic, while the processed version, which will soon see the light of day, is deeply socialist.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1269	I would like to thank you very much for the debate and for clarifying various political points. This is important, because municipal policy definitely affects all citizens. That's why this field is becoming more important and more important as we get closer to the choice. I think the dynamics of the debate have been very good, and, if I can allow myself to say so, I am already looking forward to the debate on the next communicative proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1274	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1288	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1297	The proposal we are now considering has been put forward by several representatives of the Progress Party, asking for incentives to continue working on a more efficient and robust municipal structure. What they specifically ask for is the removal of the small-scale municipal grant and the full one-off compensation of municipalities from the State for the loss arising from the absence of basic grants and other benefits. It is unclear how the Progress Party will design this one-off compensation. It is also unclear how to ‘completely’ compensate for grants initially granted by the municipalities for eternity, but this will probably be explained by the representatives of the Progress Party itself in their contributions. There may be grounds for recalling that schemes already exist to compensate municipalities for loss of income in the context of community mergers. The period during which merged municipalities may receive the breakdown grant was extended from 10 to 15 years in the context of the treatment of the municipality’s 2012 proposal. Thus, merged municipalities will have a relatively long time horizon to adapt to a new level of income. At the same time, we should not underestimate that if several municipalities with, for example, small municipal grants merge, they will in the long term have reduced transfers, which may be an important argument if aggregation is assessed. Local authorities are increasingly cooperating across local boundaries through inter-municipal cooperation in various forms. There are many reasons for such cooperation. I think it is good that municipalities, if they see that they are too small or have too poor skills to perform important tasks, look after the partners in other municipalities. But this has some democratic aspects that we must pay attention to, and there is little doubt that it is better to cooperate economically than to merge. Municipalities that cooperate in different ways retain their grants through the income system, while municipalities that join together lose such grants over time. In the past, Gjermund Hagesetter, a local political spokesperson of the Progress Party, has said that he wants about 100 municipalities in Norway. That means that 330 municipalities have to get away from today's map. The progress party will get to this with incentives, but without coercion. If we think that all of the 157 municipalities that receive small municipal grants in 2013 with the Progress Party system joins with another municipality, then about 170 municipalities remain. It would have been interesting if Hageseter in his post could say something about what other incentives the Progress Party looks forward to making these municipalities volunteer to join others. Until today, there has been a consensus in Stortinget that community mergers must be voluntary. Today, the Right is breaking out of this consensus and will have coercion of municipalities. They write in their comments on the proposal that we are now considering, that Stortinget must draw up a new municipal map. Most of us agree that there is a need for changes in the municipal structure, but there is no doubt that the drawing of municipal maps in this room is the best way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1319	The background to this proposal for a representative – an incentive to continue working with a more efficient and robust municipal structure – is the fact that municipal service production has developed very much in recent years. We've had a much more advanced service production in the municipalities today, the municipalities run things other than they did a few decades ago, and we also have a much more complicated code that the municipalities have to comply with. In addition to this, citizens also have high demands and expectations, which means that municipalities have to deliver. This, of course, makes it more important than ever that a municipality has a high level of competence and a good professional environment, and feedback shows that this is required in many small municipalities. A lot has happened since the Presidency Act was passed in 1837, 175 years ago, but when it applies to the number of municipalities, there is not so much that has happened. In 1837 there were 392 municipalities in Norway. Today, there are 429 – 37 more municipalities than we had 175 years ago. We were right up in a peak of 747 municipalities in 1930, and then there was a big change from 1958 to 1967, when a reduced number to 454 municipalities. But since 1967 it's happened a little bit. The problem here is not just that we have 429 municipalities, but that there are very different sizes in the municipality of Norway. We have Oslo with more than 600,000 inhabitants, and we have Utsira with approx. 215. This makes it demanding, especially based on the principle that everyone should do the exact same thing. Our neighbouring countries Denmark, Sweden and Finland are undergoing extensive structural changes in the municipalities, with the aim of significantly reducing the number of municipalities. Norway today has more municipalities than Denmark and Sweden have together. That is why we believe that there is a need for a major change in municipal structure also in Norway. So that is the background to this proposal that we have put forward. We don't want to use force, we want this to happen voluntarily, but we want one to use economic incentive to get it done. I record that there are a lot of people who see the need for fewer municipalities, but I also register in this case that it is only the Progress Party that will benefit from financial incentives to continue the municipal merger. There we also come up with the municipal bill, which I think we should discuss in this matter – and not in the previous case – because this is the proposal that the small municipality bill should be phased out in the course of, for example. ten years, lie down. Some of the problems here are that this is an addition that the very smallest municipalities get, the municipalities that have less than 3,200 inhabitants. If two municipalities with 3,000 inhabitants merge into one municipality with 6,000 inhabitants, the two small municipalities will lose an additional 11 million. kr. So one loses $21 million. kr in income. Now it's being compensated for 15 plus 5 years, but many local politicians look longer in time than that. That is why we believe in our proposal that the small community initiative will be phased out in the course of, for example. 10 years, and one gets one one-time compensation for the loss arising from the loss of the base bill. We have not proposed any changes to the transitional regime of 15 plus 5 years, but this applies to the future loss, beyond the time of the transitional arrangement. In that case, I would only like to end by promoting this proposal which is supported by the Progress Party. I would also like to state that if our excellent proposal were to happen, we would support the legal proposals subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1338	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1341	We mainly agree with the analysis by the proposers that we need larger and more robust municipalities to provide better services to our citizens, and this is best ensured by the fact that there are skilled workers who can have large enough environments to provide full-fledged services. We also want to keep the generalist municipality, the municipality that can solve the problems for its inhabitants. However, when we do not vote in favour of the proposal as it stands here, it is because we want a broader approach. We have said that the state must finally take a final responsibility for how the municipality structure in Norway is, but before we get there, we will also explore the tools that can be put in place to help promote voluntary community associations. It shall also be a matter of dialogue with the local government sector. I would also like to say that there has never been any principle from Stortinget that one does not consider how Kommune-Norge is organised. Firstly, the State has that responsibility in its overall role. The state and Stortinget can never discharge their responsibility for how the state of Norway is organised at all levels. The last major municipal merger has been carried out in this room, after thorough preparatory work in the Schei Committee. The real question is whether one can live with the structure that is now, whether one should wait until the matter is almost resolved by itself through voluntary community merger, or whether the state should give stronger leadership to get to the goal faster. So we've come to the last one. With these comments, I would like to say that we take up our proposal to attach the proposal of the Progress Party to the Minutes – not out of dissent to the intention, but because we believe that this proposal is too detailed and we want a broader approach to the positive instruments as well. I would like to add that the possibilities to decentralise to the municipalities from the county councils are also something that could increase the interest of many municipalities in finding out for themselves that it is an excellent solution to join the neighbouring municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1352	The representative Michael Tetzschner has addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1355	The representatives Hagesetter, Ørsal Johansen and Starheim call for incentives to continue their work with a more efficient and robust municipal structure. The proposers claim that there is an urgent need for a sharp reduction in the number of municipalities in Norway, a grip that is likely to solve all the challenges that the municipality of Norway faces in the years to come. This is an opinion I in no way share. They are promoting two concrete proposals. Proposal 1: The small municipal grant is phased out over a period of 10 years. The centre party believes that everyone has the right to settle where they want to, and that everyone has the right to equivalent welfare services regardless of the municipality in which they choose to settle. The removal of the small municipal subsidy would put the 157 smallest municipalities in the country in a position to provide equally good services to its inhabitants. For example, in the smallest municipality in Norway, Utsira, with more than 200 inhabitants, the removal of the small municipal grant would mean an income loss of more than NOK 20 000 per capita. I don't doubt in any way that they have capable local politicians, but such a grip would take away all the opportunity to maintain the quality of municipal services in line with the rest of the country. Proposal 2: Joining municipalities receive full one-off compensation from the government for the loss resulting from the non-compliance with basic and other benefits. Despite the fact that the proposal is completely impossible to understand, I'm pretty sure it's a bad idea, no matter how one chooses to interpret it. One-off compensation is easy to understand – it must mean that the entire amount is to be paid at once. The rest is completely incomprehensible. I hope the proposers can clarify the following: What does the loss resulting from the merger mean? Does it mean loss in the first year? Hardly, since the proposal is intended to stimulate community mergers. Today it's compensated for 15 plus 5 years. Does it mean loss for the first 20 years? It would in case be in line with today's arrangement in sum, and so see no significant change. Does it mean loss in the first 100 years? It would be an excessive amount, which would have hit the rest of the municipality of Norway hard, if, for example. 50 municipalities would choose to merge that same year. Or is it most natural to interpret it as if it were for the future? In my opinion, it would be a relatively demanding amount to calculate. The document refers to the fact that the proposal will also ensure that, after the one-off compensation has been paid, municipalities of the same size will receive income in accordance with the same rules. The annual framework transfer would be the same amount, yes, but the economic situation of municipalities would be very different. Let's say that four municipalities joined forces and got paid compensation for the next 50 years. They would have paid compensation for the basic grant plus other benefits – a sum of 1,500 million. kr. Saying that they were in the same financial situation as another municipality that has not cleared its debt and obtained significant equity would be incredibly strange. In addition, it says: ‘The proposers consider that the proposal, containing both the elements of whip and carrot, is a proposal that will stimulate fewer municipalities without the need for coercion by the State.’ Then I wonder what's the difference between "pisk" and "force". Without being able to speak of experience, I would think that it must be felt as relatively compelling to be under the whip. It must be much more honest to say that you want to feed the municipalities, so that they are forced to join together. Furthermore, it is claimed that municipalities must be large enough to create a competent professional environment, large enough to be attractive for new jobseekers. It has been argued all along that the cooperation reform requires larger municipalities. But what do we see? The population of the smallest municipalities is most satisfied with municipal services. It could mean one of two things. Either the same good services are provided, or the inhabitants of the large municipalities are much more demanding. Is it the small municipalities or Oslo that have the largest share of unskilled labour? Which municipalities are the worst to receive ready-to-print patients? As far as I know, it's Oslo. But I'm not going to suggest splitting Oslo into smaller municipalities. I do not share the belief that changing the municipal structure is the solution to the challenges in the municipal sector in the future. If anyone's in doubt, I have nothing against community reunification as long as it's voluntary. Everything has been arranged for voluntary community mergers. The State covers all expenditure and the breakdown grant is retained for 15 plus 5 years. What still surprises me is that only the central party rapporteurs have discovered that it is allowed to merge municipalities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1382	I think we exaggerate the importance of municipality size. Almost a proof of this is that the disagreement among professionals is too great, it is too fundamental. It's not possible for any of us, with an overall academic environment in our backs, to be able to say that this is the optimal structure. The disagreements among professionals are too big, the disagreement among politicians is too big, and the disunity among the majority of people is too big, so it's hard to see that this is so important in the further development of our welfare society. There are relatively many people who know the answer – and there is a change in the municipal structure – but there is a lot of uncertainty about what is really the starting point for the question that should lead to that answer. But I'm also where Heidi Greni is – I'm also open that there may be a lot of good arguments for changing structure here. But as a warm follower of and with respect for the municipal maritime administration, I think Municipality-Norway can figure out this sea, precisely because there is disagreement, as I pointed out. An additional point is that it is difficult to see that for the state there is a particular problem with the municipal structure we have today. It's also a little bit related to the fact that if we're going to change this structure, no matter what approach we have to this, we're still going to be left with a municipal structure with large municipalities and small municipalities. In any case, the future state will be marked by whether we like it or not, the state has to deal with a diversity, with large municipalities and small municipalities, state policy and interaction between state and municipality, and then you have to act. Norway is once so designed that this is the Norwegian reality with today's state, and it will remain so with a changed state, as far as I can understand it. Norway is kind of a combination of both small and large, so to speak. Just that it is so rude of square kilometers in this country, with scattered settlement in parts of it, will make sure that we will definitely get municipalities with very different devices and different sizes. One additional point, and we are constantly in several debates, is that we see a desire, ability and competence to cooperate across borders, both between municipalities and, fortunately, between levels of government, towards civil and business life, etc., which is growing. Not least I notice when I'm out, that people think this is so fun, creative and good in all sorts of ways. I think that no matter how we restructure and redraw this municipal map, there will always be challenges that will make it necessary to do that kind of cooperation. People are already developing such an approach, and we still want it. As I have said in a previous debate: no one believes that the Oslo region should become one municipality. There are so many major challenges in the Oslo region that should be solved through inter-municipal cooperation, also at regional level, which I call for, and which I think we should have had much more of. I'm not sure what is the question of the answer that for some people is getting a lot fewer municipalities. Suffering if one had gone as far as perhaps the Progress Party had to dream of – 100 – one would still have a situation where the state had to deal with both large and small municipalities, and we would have had a situation where the municipalities had to become even better to cooperate than they are today. This is a demanding process that would be highly debated in all sorts of ways, and that might not give us a situation that would make our society something more well-organized than it is today. Because it's just to reduce the importance of such limits and to get better at crossing such limits that are the main challenge here, and to which we have to focus first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1397	Although the representative Aksel Hagen in the previous debate frightened us a little bit about the fact that the Norwegian model, which has so far been understood as a social-democratic model, had moved on to become a socialist model with SV in government. I must nevertheless say that he made a good contribution now. I think more municipalities might benefit from joining forces, but such processes need to be primarily stimulated by good local cooperation solutions focusing on local democracy, good services for the inhabitants and well-functioning units. Then it is important for me to clarify that of course the Christian People's Party believes that volunteering must be the basis of municipal mergers. I also record that the Progress Party attaches great importance – at least verbally. But I have to say, in my view, that this proposal is in many ways a step in the wrong direction, so you want to force municipalities to merge using economic instruments. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this is a wrong approach. Then we also have to remember that for municipalities with large geographic extent, scattered settlement or peripheral location, it can be very little suitable and very little to pick up at all at municipal level, even if the population is low. It is important that such small-scale municipalities are also provided with a financial basis for providing an equivalent service to the population, and that is where the small-scale community grant comes into the picture. I am of this opinion, although in the previous debate we talked a lot about income systems, and the removal of small municipal subsidies will result in many of these municipalities getting a lower level of income and that the inhabitants of these municipalities will be able to get a lower level of service. The Christian People's Party will warn against changing the income system that way, because here we have many unintended effects. In the past, the Christian People's Party has also stated that it is important that municipalities and regions cooperate on what is useful to resolve jointly. That is why it is right to strengthen inter-communal cooperation. This is also one of the reasons why the Christian People's Party voted in favour of the joint municipal model, because we see that it can also be an instrument for strengthening intercommunal cooperation. In several areas, inter-municipal cooperation can lead to better services, more robust and interesting professional environments and also more efficient resource use. So I have said that the Christian People's Party sees that there may be several municipalities that can benefit from joining together, in order to carry out in a better way some of the statutory tasks that the municipality administers, such as. the many tasks that were transferred to the municipalities when the Cooperation Reform was launched. There are many municipalities that have challenges to provide sufficient capacity and skills to provide a satisfactory service. Community integration can, of course, lead to a better service provision, but here we also have inter-municipal cooperation that responds in many ways to those challenges. Therefore, in addition to facilitating increased cooperation, provision should also be made to enable the municipalities that so wish to have the means needed to merge. I would like to make it clear once again that for the Christian People's Party, volunteering is the basis of municipal unification. This is precisely why the Christian People's Party is calling for instruments that may allow municipalities that want to join forces – but whip is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1413	I note the attitude of the majority in the committee, which suggests that the proposal of the representatives of Hagesetter, Ørsal Johansen and Starheim must be rejected. The majority decided in 1995 that voluntary action should form the basis for the merger of municipalities, and the government has continued this in the Soria Mora I and Soria Moria II declarations. I also notice that the majority in the committee do not regard today's municipal structure as a big and pressing problem. A large-scale localization does not change the strange geography, unless coercion also means that the inhabitants are forced to move. Some would like to give the bridge and road money to communities that are merging. I want us to build bridges and roads for the benefit of people, regardless of where the municipal boundaries go. Representatives from the Progress Party want to make it more profitable for municipalities to merge. To do this, they have presented a proposal that makes everyday life much more difficult for those municipalities that don't have a real chance to merge. They want the small municipality initiative to be phased out over a period of time, for example. 10 years. I think that's a bad idea, because it's an important asset for a number of municipalities that meet specific challenges. The small municipality is based on regional policy conditions and is intended to ensure the level of income of smaller municipalities. Removing the small community bill doesn't have much to say in the big account. The small municipality bill is less than 1 pst. of the framework of the municipalities and is important for the 157 municipalities that received funding in 2012. Removing this suggestion, proposed by the representatives of the Progress Party, will affect many municipalities and their inhabitants – and will allow them to provide a worse service. It is also not such that this proposal prevents municipal mergers today. Municipalities that miss the small community because of a merger are now kept in full possession for 15 years after the merger, as part of the divisional approach, before it is subsequently stepped down for the next five years. The base bill is part of the cost cushioning of the income system and compensates municipalities for the costs associated with being a municipality – that one should have a basis to give both the administration and not least the service providers the opportunity to do their job. Some services are in all municipalities – because they are a municipality. The representatives of the Progress Party do not propose to remove the basic element of the income system, but they will change the way merged municipalities are compensated for loss of base values by merging. Today, the new municipality receives full compensation for 15 years as part of the divisional approach, before it is phased out for the next five years. The proposal from the representatives of Hagesetter, Ørsal Johansen and Starheim is based on the fact that municipalities that merge are fully compensated for losses caused by the loss of basic assets and other advantages. There is a bit of uncertainty as to how the representatives from the Progress Party think this should be done. The basic criterion of the income system is more than 10 million. kr in 2012. An entry bonus that compensates for an eternal annual loss may quickly become a very high amount. The representative of the Central Party has previously provided an estimate of this. I think today's divisional system is better, and it facilitates a good framework for setting up the new, independent municipality. A merged municipality has 20 years to adapt its everyday life to the new framework conditions and then receives support, in line with all comparable municipalities. I also believe that the divisional approach helps to provide a good framework for all the municipalities in the country. A large payment to a new municipality will affect the frame rate of all municipalities in the year in which the compensation is paid. Such an unseemly arrangement I think will be very unfortunate. The Government Party has also determined that the State shall cover the actual costs of aggregation. Previously, the state only covered 40–60 pst. The policy of today's government is that the starting point for aggregation should come from the municipalities themselves, and that the state should help to ensure that the aggregation is not a major item of expenditure in the municipal budgets. When you read this case, there are many questions raised, such as: How a practical person intends to do this, what will be the outcome for those municipalities that are unable to merge. It's not that one can take Sunund into a country and merge it with another municipality – or are they to be remotely controlled far away? There are many municipalities that are in such a situation. Traveling to Hedmark, with the enormous distances that are there, we see that there will be significant disadvantages for the inhabitants – unless one wants to move them. That's maybe what's really the problem, that a desire to centralize people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1450	The installation from the state council was not in any way surprising. The birthplace was that there is no need for fewer municipalities, there is no need for municipal convergence – despite the fact that we have more municipalities today than when the presidency laws were passed 175 years ago. In our neighbouring countries, there's a lot going on at the municipal convergence front. Sweden is significantly reducing the number of municipalities. Denmark has decreased, they have come under 100. Finland is also on its way down and has the ambition to get well below 100 municipalities – 74 municipalities are probably what is suggested. Then my question is, what makes Norway different? What makes Sweden, Denmark and Finland openbert need fewer municipalities, more robust municipalities, while Norway does not have it? Can the Council of State explain what is the difference here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1459	Yes, Norway is a different country. In the 1960s and 1970s, when most countries around us chose a centralisation line, Norway chose a decentralisation line. Maybe it was good that we didn't have the centralization force of the Progress Party at that time. It is not likely that the result would have been the same. A wise political plural chose to decentralize — building airports, high-scuits and workplaces all around the country. So we have a people's opinion that's very special in Nordic and maybe in European context – and almost in worldly context. It's life and touch in these communities, thank you very much for the people who start businesses and do industrial work, but also thank you for having a differentiated community structure, where a sister for well-functioning schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly in their communities. There is no doubt that having such a differentiated municipal structure is also important in a district policy context, precisely because our country looks like it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1466	Our neighbouring country also has a settlement across the country. Of course, it should be, even if you have a municipal conjugation. The central party and the state council are trying to make it so that if you have municipal conspiracies, there's also something to say about the construction pattern. Of course this is not the case. On the contrary, a good, robust municipality requires a good basis to build a building in the district of Norway. The councils have previously mentioned that it is very little to save money for municipalities to merge. At the same time, it is also noted that small municipalities are important for municipalities to have enough money to provide good services to their inhabitants. The small municipality concept is an example of large municipalities subsidising small municipalities. If there's nothing to save on getting mixed up, why do we have a small community bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1473	The small municipality bill has us because there are a number of municipalities that have a higher cost of providing services – because people are scattered, because there are disadvantages associated with travelling by ferry, having alleys, caring for the elderly – one has to run many, many miles to provide the elderly with a good supply in their homes. It costs money. It will not see the Progress Party, therefore the Progress Party is pursuing a centralising policy. When it comes to our neighboring country, I ran from Kiruna to Rovaniemi on Friday. It was interesting to run north from Kiruna, because there was almost no runoff along the road, and I saw one house in many, many miles. It was a little different when I went into Finland, and there were a little more houses to see, but there was a big difference between running down a Norwegian valley and following a Norwegian main road. So it's like Norway has a different busset, and the Center Party and the government are going to fight for that in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1480	Now the Council of State answers that the small municipality is a performance that exists because it is more expensive to provide services in some municipalities. That's not what the small municipality bill is, because if two municipalities with 3,000 inhabitants merge, one of them loses 10 million. kr in income. But these municipalities will have exactly the same construction pattern, and it will cost exactly as much to deliver the services in these municipalities even if they merge, but they will still lose 10 million. kr in income. If one is a co-municipality, one does not lose it, but if one merges – as many municipalities wish – one loses these revenues. That's exactly what this Progress Party wants to do. We don't want one to lose financially to merge, we want one to have an economic incentive that makes it attractive to merge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1485	But if it's the case that the Progress Party doesn't want one to lose on merging, why would one then take away the small community proposal? Then one can only say that the communities that join together will keep the small community proposal forever. Then there is no reason to remove it first and then say that one should compensate the municipalities with a single sum. To compensate for a one-off sum: if other municipalities do the work of central parishes, that is to say, to merge – it is certainly only the central party that perceives that it is possible to do so without being ordered from the Stortinget – they get a rather difficult sum to be drawn from the frame to the others, for example. 10–15 municipalities merge for a year. How should a person do it in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1492	We are making this proposal because one has to have a financial incentive to continue voluntary community converging. It contains two grips: one is that the small municipality bill should be phased out over a period of, for example: 10 years. This will, of course, mean that small municipalities will find it more attractive to merge, because then it is not the loss of the small municipality that prevents municipal convergence, one will lose it anyway. We'll give them good time – ten years – so that they can get their word on it. It also includes fully offsetting the loss of base options that goes beyond 15 years in time. It's a loss because it's going to be a get the present value of paid out as a one-time sum. This is a carrot, and it doesn't cost the state anything, because this is expenditure that the government has in the income system today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1497	I think we just have to say that the Progress Party has to work a little bit more on its model and look at the consequences it will have for Kommune-Noreg. It's not that all municipalities can actually physically merge, if one isn't going to get huge distances. They will then miss an important basis and funding of their services to the municipalities. The Progress Party system sketches, is something I think I've been away before as a local politician, at a time with another government, where cutting off the local economy and removing good arrangements for the smallest municipalities would force them to merge. It's not volunteering, it's coercion. There are many ways to force municipalities. One can force through law, one can force through economy, and one can force by making it impossible to operate such a thing today. What is outlined from the Progress Party suggests that one will force the municipalities by tightening up the economy, so that they do not operate well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1506	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1512	We have a lot of municipalities in this country, but it's a little weird when many people talk about the municipalities as if they had an absolute constant and equal size. They don't. Utsira with its 214 inhabitants is the smallest municipality in the country measured in the population, Oslo has over 600 000 inhabitants. White Island in Rogaland covers only 6.17 km2, while Norway's largest municipality is Kautokeino in Finnmark with its 9 707 km2. There are considerable differences in Norway, and there is also reason why it is appropriate to leave much of the governance and design of services to the local population. It provides more cost-effective solutions and provides better quality solutions. At the same time, we know that when we have local governance, there are differences in the welfare provision between municipalities. Some give priority to care for the elderly, while the neighbouring municipality may give priority to primary school. It's okay, but the differences can't be too big. One of the characteristics of the Norwegian social-democratic model is very small differences. It gives you confidence that you will get the help you need, when you need it, regardless of whether you live in Bergen or in the Moscows. That equivalence also gives the legitimacy of Norwegian society, a society in which we have the principle that those who have the strongest back contribute to those who have a little bit bigger should than us. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we ensure functional, sustainable municipalities – not because we have to save money, but because both at the Stortinget and the inhabitants of the municipalities are increasingly demanding what municipalities should do in child protection, in schools, in kindergartens, in land planning, preparedness and much more. We expect service, and we expect quick answers – in short. The Labour Party will have functional and sustainable municipalities because we need to strengthen, improve and renew the welfare offer. Although many of the small municipalities are doing well, we also see that professional environments are often small and vulnerable, and with new, complex tasks and increasing expectations, recruitment of right and high enough competences is a challenge. Today's municipal map is essentially a result of the big change made in the 1960s, almost 50 years ago. The world has changed significantly since then. The representative, Hagen, is asking what the issue in the debate is. I believe the right question in this debate is: do we have the optimal and perfect organisation of the level of management in the primary municipalities, or is it such that the organisation we have today does not contribute to finding the best solutions? If it doesn't help to find the best solutions, we're going to have a discussion about what might be appropriate organization. I fully agree with the representative Tetzschner in his summary: the responsibility lies at the seventh and last in Stortinget. The size cannot avoid its responsibility for ensuring the proper, efficient and sustainable organisation of the management of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1533	The state has assigned larger and more extensive tasks to municipalities. In addition, the requirement to report to government agencies has increased. In my view, the tasks assigned to the municipalities are not related to the municipal structure of the day. The interaction reform, which was imposed on municipalities by the last major task, is demanding, and I see it as inappropriate to set up health municipalities with additional bureaucracy. We also see that there are many intercommunal companies to deal with common tasks in a region, and this is increasing. When it comes to the creation of intercommunal companies with their own governing bodies, one can see that decisions that are important to the inhabitants are often taken in closed rooms. This does not help to strengthen democracy. The centre party is set on fire with the small-scale community in the districts. In my own state, Sogn and Fjordane, a clear view of how it has gone. Population developments in Sogn and Fjordane have stagnated. We have almost the same population in the county now that we had in 1946. The same thing happens in other states, as the Center Party calls district states. It is therefore not surprising that the local government minister from the Central Party believes that we do not need fewer municipalities. We in the Progress Party are busy getting valuables instead of keeping a big public bureaucracy. Both politicians and people most in Sogn and Fjordane have said that it is almost impossible to meet spokesmen and advisers because they travel around because of various boards and regional cooperation bodies. Of what they're discussing there, it's usually just a little bit that comes out in the open room. The Progress Party has in its programme that municipal convergence should take place on a voluntary basis. I'm skeptical that volunteering works, even if we adopt good carrots. I know that in this room there are more and more, across the party boundaries, that will change the municipal structure we have today. I was happy when I recently registered that the vice-leader in the Workers' Party had a strong desire to do something about the municipal structure. I don't think it would be difficult to support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1548	This proposal that the Progress Party has put forward here seems to some people to want to try to doubt rather than go into reality, namely that it would be good for the creation of value in Norway and for the production of services in Kommune-Noreg that one gets larger and more robust municipalities. That is the need for the future. The background to this proposal is to make it easier to get together on a voluntary basis. No one is going to lose when they merge. It's, as it were, two grips. One is that the small municipal supplement should be phased out during a period of e.g.: 10 years. So it's that the present value, which arises after the loss of the base supplement, is going to be calculated. The present value of the future loss of income shall be paid as a lump sum. There are more, including: The representative Heidi Greni and the Council of State Liv Signe Navarsete, who has spent time on the chair to think about how this should be done. I think they get the idea of how to do this. In any case, this is an elementary economic account — how to calculate the present value of a future loss of income. It calculates an interest rate based on the underlying interest rate. To explain this simply: if a municipality loses 11 million. kr, he shall have this compensated for 15 years, and then one shall descend for an additional five years. Then it would be that if one gets a one-off sum and puts it in the bank, he should in 15 years plus five years of stepping down be so big that he will give a return of 11 million. kr in the year to come. It's very simple, and this won't cost the state anything, because this is money that the municipalities are transferring today. What will be the reality of this is that municipalities will retain the gain resulting from a municipal merger. Today, it is the country that gets reduced expenditure when municipalities join forces. Because the small municipality grant and the basic grant are falling, it becomes less able to transfer to the municipalities, while the municipalities receive reduced income and must, during that transitional period, streamline at least as much as this loss of income represents, in order to receive a plus. Not all municipalities see that they're doing it, so there's a few municipal mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1559	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1573	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1582	The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party that we are about to deal with now addresses very important and current issues for Norwegian consumers. All of us have read in the media or been told stories about the complicated savings products Norwegian consumers experienced they were tricked into buying in the years before the financial crisis in 2008. We have also heard many stories about how consumers who have complained to the Department of Finance have experienced that they have been rejected when they have filed a complaint. This is why, today, a joint committee is behind a proposal for a decision asking the government to assess whether there are grounds for changes in the organisation and activities of the Financial Complaints Board which may help to strengthen the rights of complainants. The Committee would strongly stress that the financial industry is responsible for providing adequate and good advice to its customers and earns the trust between consumers and the industry we depend on for a well-functioning financial market. It is also important that consumers take responsibility for the investments they make, but they should feel confident that the financial industry provides advice on appropriate and sound placements, and that this is done in a good and informative manner, including in writing. It shall also be possible for consumers to complain in a simple way if they believe that a product different from that proposed has been obtained. Financial complaints are meant to be a low-threshold offer to consumers, but with a background in all the stories that have been told about how this is happening, it is permissible to ask questions about how it works today. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Christian People's Party and the Left, argues that the role of business in the denominator should be continued. As pointed out in the Financial Complaints' mandate, today's model involves the individual industry taking responsibility, including financially, for the resolution of disputes. This contributes, in the view of the majority, to the responsibility of the business community itself. The minority will set up an independent State body of complaint for financial services. The Committee is strongly critical that structured, loan-funded savings products with significant risks and almost non-existent opportunities for small savers to make money were sold to ordinary people to a significant extent before the financial crisis, without intervention by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Consumer responsibility is made clear to the Financial Supervisory Authority afterwards, and the Financial Crisis Committee recommended in its NOU 2011:1 Better armed against financial crises that ‘Norwegian regulators are given a clearer legal responsibility to protect consumers’ interests and rights in financial markets’. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Finance, as a follow-up to it, has recently sent to the hearing a proposal to clarify explicitly in the Financial Supervision Act that the Financial Supervisory Authority should ensure that the institutions under its supervision take account of consumers. Finally, some words about the proposal of the Christian People's Party, to which the Left has also joined, to ban the sale of so-called warrants – which is also a type of complicated savings product – to non-professional investors. There is no doubt that it is worrying that the sale of these types of products is again taking place, but the majority of the Committee does not see it as a solution to prohibit the product. There will be a significant demarcation problem because product development is constantly taking place in this market, and the issue is further complicated by the fact that some types of warrants are listed so that non-professional investors can, in any case, submit an order for the purchase of that type of product. The majority therefore consider that the most appropriate way to limit this type of product is through strict requirements for advice, counseling and marketing as well as for the supervision of sales. The majority of the Committee considers that just checking this type of sale is a priority area of the Financial Supervisory Authority even today. With that I put the matter forward. I would like to express great satisfaction at the fact that, today, an overall committee agrees with the decision to ask the government to assess whether there is a basis for changes in the organisation and activities of the Financial Complaints Board which can help to strengthen the legal certainty of the complainants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1597	Financial activities are important in a modern economy. At the same time, we know that many of the products they have are very complicated, and it takes great financial insight to understand them. Understanding these products is essential for assessing the risk. Could not assess the risk, it is quickly done that one is willing to pay the wrong price for them. In recent years, we have seen that several complex products are for sale to ordinary consumers. It's unfortunate if ordinary consumers don't understand what they're actually buying. They are led by nice and eloquent sellers to believe that here's the big upside, while you're not talking about the downside. Therefore, it is important that there is some sort of regulation of this market, that there is a financial supervision that follows what they are doing, so that not eloquent sellers are able to trick ordinary people into buying something that ultimately costs them a lot of money. You have seen some of the products that are so-called guaranteed savings products, have very little outside, but there are very large fees for those who sell them. This is not the way a market should work. The industry has a significant responsibility. I think the case rapporteur gave a very good picture of both what this is all about and what challenges a meeting is. The industry must take the responsibility that they guide private customers and not deceive them. Penalties against people in the industry who abuse this trust must be used. It is important that we have out-of-court dispute settlements so that not everything should be brought before a court. It will both complicate the work of the Court and become unnecessarily expensive for society. At the same time, we know that there are some things that don't have the economy to bring their cases into court, and having a low-threshold offer, which is also much cheaper, is very good. It is important that the industry is not controlled, for example: Financial complaints alone, but there are many external actors, who also ensure that the majority are away from industry. It does not mean, however, that all those who take up their cases are expected to be involved, because complex cases may have different outcomes from what the consumer wants. It is important that the financial complaint subject does a good job. People must have confidence that they are independent, and they must have confidence that the job is done properly. When some people feel that their case is being dealt with in two minutes at a meeting, it is difficult for them to have that trust. That's something that financial complaints themselves have to make up an opinion about. The Progress Party believes that the Financial Supervision should place greater emphasis on consumer concerns than they do today. That is why the Progress Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is promoting a proposal on this. I take up that proposal. However, we also support the proposal contained in the vote on the motion for a resolution – a tribute to the Christian People's Party, which actually manages to adopt something through a Document 8 proposal. It's not often that happens. You can do that now, and it also shows how important this matter is. We are in favour of this proposal that it be strengthened and will support this. We also hope that the government will report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner on how this is done. In this context, the Progress Party will also focus on strengthening the competence of the Consumer Council. Because it is often those who have to file a complaint with the Financial Complaints Board. Then one looks at the Consumer Council people as the best representatives of consumers. It is therefore important that the people of the Council have both the capacity and the competence to talk more about consumers' issues than they have today. We know that those who represent the financial industry in the name of it often have top skills about what they are doing, and then they must be met with corresponding top skills from people who have different interests than caring for their own interests. But I am very pleased with the way in which the matter has been dealt with in the committee – again the honor of the case rapporteur for a good report and for a good attitude. I refer to the proposal on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1621	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen then addressed the proposal he referred to, which is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1624	I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Christian People's Party for their great commitment to increased consumer rights in financial placement matters. There is no doubt that the financial market is entirely dependent on the buyer’s confidence that the seller provides good and neutral advice, and that is important in order to secure capital for Norwegian business. The financial crisis revealed many scandals. People lost money, but it also did businesses and municipalities. The products were too complicated, and the legislation was too poor. The current debt crisis in Europe can have a major impact on the financial industry. We must therefore be aware of developments, so that the industry no longer produces new products in order to increase its performance. The right is committed to strengthening the Financial Supervision. We have done so through the increase in the budget in several government budgets. We are concerned that the Financial Supervisory Authority should be able to exercise control, supervision and instruments in the event of a breach of both fines and concessions. In the future, financial supervision will need to pay more attention to consumer-related issues. We have received many feedback from the Financial Complaints Committee on the functioning of the Financial Complaints Board. Many people are dissatisfied with the composition that is – that the industry has a majority – but also with the procedure and that too many decisions go against consumers and that many of the decisions that favour consumers are not respected. In other words, the term has become a bureaucracy on the way to a court case rather than a tool to just avoid getting a trial. The right is concerned that this name should work, has confidence and that decisions in favour of users are followed. In Norway, there has been good and long experience in extrajudicial dispute resolution. It consists mainly of the Consumer Dispute Committee, which is publicly funded, and of voluntary names established in cooperation with the Consumer Council and the various industries. The right considers it important that we also have a well-functioning system for out-of-court settlements in banking and insurance that both consumers and industry have confidence in. The financial complaint is an extra-judicial dispute resolution body established in 2010 by the Consumer Council, the NHO, the Joint Financial Industry Organisation, the Association of Finance Companies and the Association of Securities Funds, following a merger of the former Insurance Complaint Office and the Banking Complaint Board. They have soon had two years of practice, and therefore we have actually chosen to follow the red-green parties and the majority of the committee when they announce a review of how the subject of the financial complaint works and how it is organised. In addition, there has been a legal change and a anchoring of the extrajudicial dispute resolution. For the Right, there are good signals from the Red-Greens and we go with the Committee plurals and not right on the proposal from the Christian People's Party, which otherwise contains a lot of good things. If you want to make changes, you think you should do it in a thorough and honest way. In addition, in the document and in communication with the Committee, the Government proposes that both the Banking Law Commission and the Committee for Financial Crisis proposals that those actors not complying with their decisions should have to pay the consumer's own costs in legal proceedings and that customers of financial undertakings not linked to a complaint should be able to require such treatment. This is also on the right hand side, and we're actually going for the line that the Christian People's Party is putting on in many of the suggestions that are coming. On the right, both the Minister of Finance and the President-in-Office seem to have taken up a very good deal of what the Christian People's Party has promoted. We in the Right agree with many of the proposals, but we want a deeper explanation, a deeper process, and we feel that the government has something to do here. We are really going to follow this case further and have good cooperation with the other opposition parties, with the consumer organisations and with the financial industry in order to get a better solution than we have unfortunately seen up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1643	I also want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for bringing up a very important and demanding case. It's complicated, and as members of the committee, we've got a lot of input. That's very good what the Christian People's Party has done. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party also have a note that says a lot of good, but I want to start with something that says initially, because it's quite strong for me: «The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party and the Left point to the long-standing perception that the interests of society are always best safeguarded when individuals follow their own interests in free markets. The idea was shattered by the financial crisis.’ I hope that idea got a «break» something before the financial crisis of the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is based on the old Left, which had a clear view – at least in my understanding of history – that one had to correct the market. I've said that securing competition, for example in capitalism, is to ensure that we have State intervention, because competition is basically a state product – to be completely acute. What is the first case now is warrants, and it is not offered to those who are not professionals. I think there's quite a few that have inside the skin what warrants really mean. I'm not of the most competent to understand this language, I'm willing to admit it, because as a value conservative, it's not these circles I'm moving most in. But as I have experienced, warrants are a kind of «gearing». It's a kind of ‘gear’ up – if you have 100 kroner, you can ‘gear’ it up to 1000 kroner. Then it gives rise to risk, it gives rise to large profits, and it gives rise to large losses. So it's kind of a speculation. I remember we had the discussion about legalizing hedge funds in Norway. We got a supplement, a special rule, about so-called special fund to the mutual fund law. Then I remember that the discussion was whether this should be called ‘special funds’, or whether we should simply call hedge funds ‘speculations funds’. That brings me to the point: I think it's quite crucial that we use the names of the different products – to use that expression – that are comprehensive for the content. If more had been called speculation, it would have seemed dampening to those who are not so busy participating in that activity, because, for example, an example has too little equity. With regard to the subject of the Financial Complaint, the parties to the Government include the proposal: ‘The Government is asked to assess whether there is a basis for changes in the organisation and activities of the Financial Complaint Topic that can contribute to enhancing the legal certainty of complaints.’;» I would like to say that of the options that the Ministry of Finance has to look at, an alternative is to close the Financial Complaint and take matters into the ordinary legal system, or alternatives – as is the case in Sweden – with a state independent complaint body. In Sweden, the General Board of Complaints is called. What is the background to what I am now saying is that the Finanzklärenda Bank shows that consumers are not given legal assistance to present matters properly and properly. Members of the Financial Complaints Board shall not be obliged to comply with the decision of the Judge if the defendant loses. This raises the threshold for a consumer to stand out and win with his cause. That's why it's very strong to read today's business today on page 17, where communication director Leif Osland of the Financial Industry Association says that they take note of what we're doing now. The Joint Financial Industry Organisation is among the organisations behind the Financial Complaints Board. And then it comes: ‘We have understood that the threshold for complaints in banking matters is too high in the Financial Complaints Board. There should be a low threshold offer, as we will evaluate measures together with the Secretariat and the Consumer Council, says Osland.’ This is quite eloquently said, I would say. The same FNO has just participated in the practice we're talking about here, so it's pretty strong to experience that one now lies flat and says, well, well, when the Storting now responds to what they're doing, well, then we're going to be nice boys and girls. It should have been something earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1674	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review of the matter in the Committee. From the Christian People's Party we have been working on these questions since before Christmas. I simply have to admit that I am quite shaken by many of the issues we have been presented and how some players in the financial industry have behaved towards ordinary consumers. It is obvious that in many cases, profit-making and aggressive marketing have gone beyond entirely general decent business conduct and, unfortunately, have not been adequately corrected. That's the main challenge. Of course, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we fully agree that everyone has a responsibility for what one chooses to invest in, but that requires that the information that is presented is factual, and that it is correct information that is provided. Unfortunately, this is not the case in too many cases. I spoke to a bank manager who said, "Yes, indeed, we have said over the green branch we've been sitting on, because you've gone too far in exploiting the confidence of ordinary consumers in your own bank in many cases – what you thought was a trusting business relationship." But it turns out that, in many cases, there has been a lack of risky behaviour. The background to our wish for a different system of Financial Complaints is the results after treatment in the denominator. I have to say that the fact that no account is taken of any of the things that have been said orally between the buyer and the seller in the financial complaint topic has, in my opinion, led to the fact that the industry has been able to carry on as it has done far beyond what would otherwise have been the case. Because there is no doubt that the industry has adjusted to the fact that everything that has been of an oral nature has been provided one-sided information about, which is positive, and without questions about whether there has been any risk associated with the product, but when the written information comes, it says it in small writing – but it is after having long oral rounds. This oral complaint does not take into account the Financial Complaint, nor should it obviously be under the terms of reference. In my opinion, it has once again resulted in the legal situation being what it has become, and that few cases have come to justice, because it is obvious that if you lose in the name, there are very few who are at all willing to go further. You don't have the economy, and you don't have the energy. I am pleased that, after all, the majority will ask the government to look at the organisation of the denominator. On the part of the Christian People's Party, together with the Left, we have had a desire for a far more extensive change. I think it is necessary for a completely independent body which does not have representatives of the parties in the way it currently has, to have the necessary trust among consumers at least. The reason we've got the situation we have is, of course, that there's been a high risk for the consumer, a low risk for the financial institutions, not so much potential for the benefit of the consumer, but the greater the possibility for the financial institution to make money in terms of fees and charges, which are very high. That's the background for aggressive marketing and business that you've seen too much of. In my opinion, the authorities have not followed up this to a sufficient degree – it goes on at the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. I am aware of the hearing that is now taking place, but the Financial Supervisory Authority has of course been concerned with the soundness of the banks, but it has not taken into account that consumers have also been seriously offended in these kinds of cases. I'm taking up our suggestions. Subsidiary, we vote in favour of the majority vote. Everything is better than nothing, after all. I'm sorry. A little bit better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1695	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1698	There is then a very well-founded proposal for a representative, which is fully supported by the Left. I will nevertheless justify the Left's commitment to this matter. In the last half of the 1990s, a number of banks and financial institutions introduced so-called composite or structured savings products. The products became popular, not least in the private market, and were subsequently sold to a significant extent. At the same time, banks were subject to criticism, especially where the purchase of the products was financed by loans. Unfortunately, there are innumerable examples of cases in which individuals have been borrowing six to seven times their income in order to purchase such composite products which have subsequently proved nearly impossible to sell and which have also fallen sharply in value. In relation to the debate we had yesterday on bank equity requirements for the purchase of housing, this is what really is irresponsible lending. Afterwards, it was also found that many who entered into agreements with financial institutions received both incomplete and partially misleading information on the risks and expected returns of the investment, which was also covered by the representative Syversen. On this basis, the sale of composite products after each subject-matter of strict regulation by the authorities was made, as explained above. in particular, the obligation to provide information in the case of offers for the purchase of composite products. This is in the Left's view well and well, but there are still very many people who believe they're being mistreated and led behind the light of different financial institutions, and who, in retrospect, feel both powerless and lawless. That is at the heart of the draft representative and the core of the Left's justification for a wholehearted support for this. The left is critical of how the Financial Complaint Board works today. This concerns both the organisation and funding of the denominator, the fact that very few people are winning in the Financial Complaints Department, and the fact that the proceedings take a very long time, in many cases several years, which means that they are both human and economically exhausted. In such a situation, the few people who have the energy or resources to contact a lawyer for further work in the ordinary judicial system, at the additional cost that this can impose on them. I would particularly like to point out two of the proposals we are promoting together with the Christian People's Party in the position. That is the proposal No. 3 and No 10th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 3 is about replacing the Financial Complaint subject with a neutral complaint body. In our view, there is a need to establish a new publicly funded and independent denominator. This can be done either by model of the Swedish ARN, the General Board of Complaints, or directly under the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Swedish ARN is a publicly funded complaint/advertising body dealing with complaints/conflicts concerning the purchase of goods and services of different nature. Another option is to place such an independent complaint subject directly under the Financial Supervisory Authority. As can be seen from the supervision's own new consumer information page, the Financial Supervisory Authority supervises financial activities in Norway. This also means that consumers’ interests can be properly safeguarded. Proposal No 10 is about amending the Law on Disputes. One of the main problems with today’s so-called legal status is that it is very difficult for the ordinary consumer to have the counterparty directly in a speech or a physical meeting in the event of this type of conflict. Nor is it unusual that matters remain in the Financial Complaints Board for several years, if they are dealt with at all. We therefore propose to amend the dispute law so that cases against banking and financial institutions brought by individuals can be promoted before the Conciliation Council. Today, there is a limit in the law that means that the amount of the dispute must be less than NOK 125 000 so that the settlement board can take the matter. The vast majority of issues related to composite savings products are of an economic size exceeding this limit and therefore cannot be raised. Many issues could have been resolved if the parties met — and not by letter-writing, as the Financial Complaint Study is going on. Finally, I should like to express my disappointment at the fact that no more are supporting the concrete proposals that have been put forward in the vote. When we discussed the financial market message yesterday, several from the government parties gave the impression that this was a problem that would be actively addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1718	Banks have two important tasks. One is to take deposits from the public; the other is to lend money to the public. So it's a little bit in between. This means that people who put money in the bank trust – should trust and trust – that the bank manages savings in a good and sensible way. This means that consumer interests should be strong in this context. That is why it is good that this proposal is being discussed today. I am pleased that there is a broad dissension about significant parts of the way we are going to go further. We have good consumer protection in the financial market in Norway. We have strengthened it in recent years, but we need to develop further and improve consumer protection. It is a task that is important to me, and that is important to the Ministry of Finance, which follows up what was important also to my predecessor there. That is why I am fundamentally in favour of the considerations behind the proposals by the proposers. And then we're going to have to discuss together what's the sensible and the right way forward. The first proposal concerns investment in complex investment products. It is not prohibited to advise consumers to invest in such products, but investment advice is a concessional service. In order to obtain and maintain such a concession, advisers must meet strict requirements, including: to information provided to those who may be required to invest. It's an important principle. In the event of a serious breach of the rules, the Financial Supervisory Authority may withdraw the concession to the adviser. We've seen more examples of this lately. I think the majority of the Committee on Finance has concluded in a good way when they say that the most appropriate way to limit the sale of complex investment products is through strict requirements for advice and marketing and through supervision. That is why I have asked the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to continue to ensure that companies and their investment advisors set up the business so that no advice is given that takes care of their interests at the expense of the customer. The Committee may rest assured that I will continue to monitor this with regard to regulatory supervision. The second proposal concerns the possibility for consumers to settle disputes with financial undertakings in a safe and sound manner. It is important that we have a well-functioning banking and insurance dispute resolution system that both consumers and the financial industry have confidence in. This is why there is a basis for looking at how the Financial Complaint Topic works and is organised today. The majority of the financial committee has reached a good conclusion when they intend to ask the government to assess whether there is a basis for changes in the organisation and activity of the committee which can contribute to strengthening legal certainty. Of course, I'm going to follow up on this, and I'm open to evaluating different solutions. I'll do it in consultation with the Ministry of Justice, which is the owner of the denominator – to put it that way. In addition, I can inform you that I will decide on two proposals that may be suitable for strengthening the position of consumers. One is that all clients of financial undertakings may require consideration of a dispute, even if the financial undertaking has not joined. The second is that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has proposed that financial undertakings which do not comply with decisions of the consumer's favour should cover the consumer's costs of any legal action. We now have these proposals for consideration in the Ministry of Finance, and I intend to present the matter to the Stortinge during the next session. The third proposal concerns the consumer responsibility of the Financial Supervisory Authority. Financial supervision shall contribute to the proper functioning of consumer interests and rights in financial markets. This can be seen in law, budgets and letters of allocation. The allocation letter to the Financial Supervisory Authority emphasises this more strongly than before. However, following the initiative of the Committee on Financial Crisis, the Ministry of Finance has had a proposal to clarify explicitly in the law that the Financial Supervisory Authority should ensure that supervised institutions take account of consumers’ interests and rights. It can make it clear that consumers’ interests remain – and should remain – a very important part of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority. I will come back to Stortinget also with this matter for the autumn. And then there's a whole bunch of other suggestions that are also in the mood. These will also be followed up in a good and sensible way from our side, including. There are now rules for treatment in the EU that will have an impact on how we are going to move forward in Norway. I am very pleased with the setting, and I want to do what I can to follow up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1748	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1751	I could imagine asking the Council of State a more ideological and fundamental question. Does the Council of State agree that it is permissible to take risks as long as all information and information have been provided to the customer? Or does the Council of State think that the customer must be protected from himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1758	I thank you for the question, because then I get the opportunity to say something that I didn't get to say in my post. The point of this is that when you decide, it is important that the matter is well informed that you have received good information. But as others have also said in the debate, it is important that we, as consumers or investors, use our own common sense in what we want to do. It's like there's a risk associated with most, and if you get an offer for some product that has a big upside, and that's kind of just gold and green forests, there's all sorts of reason to use common sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1765	First, I have to say that it is rare that I hear the Minister of Finance being so on with the Storting as what we have experienced today, and I think that is very good. There is a lot of what the Minister of Finance mentions about the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Financial Complaints Department, which is in line with what the Progress Party also wants. But there is one thing that received little attention from the Minister of Finance, and it was the Consumer Council. Does the Council of State consider that the Consumer Council should also be strengthened in this context, so that a more competent person can be gathered there – since they are also part of the complaint panel and thus will be able to make the consumer's name appear even more credible for the consumers who enter it, and that they not only experience that the Financial Complaints Board acts as a defence body for the financial industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1772	Now I believe that on various occasions I have stressed that good proposals are the Minister of Finance for whether they come from one or the other. They will be subject to a good assessment, to say it that way. But I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that we should now strengthen consumer protection in this area. As far as the Consumer Council is concerned, I should be a little careful to express myself. It belongs to another State Council. Some of this has to be able to reserve for any fights for budget crowns. However, in general, I am concerned that one in different areas should have the highest possible level of consumer protection, and the Consumer Council plays an important role in this respect. It is clear that in assessing how to deal with this in the future in relation to the financial sector, one will also be able to assess the role of consumer protection. But what I'm concerned about is that we get a recognition solution that gets good for those who are going to deal with their issues, and that you have confidence that the denominator treats matters in a good way – so that's essentially the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1781	In his speech – which I think was positive in many ways, even though we on the part of the Christian People's Party have great impatience on this point – the Minister of Finance said that he would look at the subject of the Financial Complaint and the framework for their activities. One of the issues that, in my opinion, has proved to be extremely problematic is that, according to their mandate, the name should not lay down any of the things that have been said orally between the buyer and the seller, on the basis of their assessment of the various issues they receive. I know that the industry so that those degrees have adjusted in relation to, so that everything verbal comes first, and then something in writing finally comes that is used in the denominator. Will there also be a question for assessment by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1788	I noticed what the representative Syversen said in his statement about that. It will also be part of the assessment that we now have to make, including: The Ministry of Justice will be involved, because it is the Ministry of Justice that is formally contracting entity, or that owns the name, to say it that way, politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1793	I want to show that many people claim that now everything is so much better than it was, after we got a new regulation. A study carried out by the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Consumer Council conducted by ordinary consumers, known as the ‘Mystery shopping’ test, shows that 30 customer meetings had been carried out. 14 of these customers were advised to borrow money to put them in complicated savings products. In 11 of the customer meetings, customers were encouraged to pledge the dwelling. This is after the new regulations that we have adopted in this room. My question to the Council of State is in the light of the test carried out by the competent team: is there still a lot of evidence that the industry itself has a way to go in order to have a self-justice in its meetings with consumers and the recommendations they actually make?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1802	An important part of the task of the Financial Supervisory Authority is also to oversee complex products according to what has been determined. As far as I remember, about 75 local supervision were carried out last year, and in part of those inspections it was revealed that one had not followed up when, among other things. concerns the type of questions currently raised by the representative Syversen. So this is an area that we're occupied with, and which we also in our conversations and our orders, to put it this way, through the letters of assignment to the Financial Supervisory Authority, will be particularly aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1807	Just a brief question: Does the Minister of Finance think that there is something formal in the way of – or does he has serious arguments against – establishing a similar scheme to that in Sweden, as I mentioned in my post, with an independent, publicly funded complaint subject under the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1813	Now I don't think I'm going to advance the assessment that we're going to do with the Ministry of Justice, but there we're going to evaluate different solutions. A variant may be an independent denominator, but there may also be other variants that you should look at. When we're done with our assessment, we'll, of course, present this to the Stortinget. I also aim to ensure that we are able to maintain the broad consensus that prevails, in so far as, in the discussion today on the road further, because these are issues that deserve great political impetus in terms of the solutions we choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1820	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1825	I am pleased that this matter is being raised here to the Chamber. It is not only important to look at whether the legislation is good enough, whether the apparatus dealing with these matters is working well enough. It's also a weather alert poster to people that it can go very wrong if you're not careful when buying structured savings products. For joy can really be short - there are an incredible number of examples of it. The products that were bought in particular earlier should never have been sold. There was low competence on the type of product at both the seller and the buyer. The information material was poor, and people were lured into aggressive marketing. It could seem that financial institutions put their own interests ahead of customers. Fortunately, much has been done by the government to put an end to the unprofessionalism of this industry. In 2008, the government introduced stronger requirements for structured savings products. More stringent requirements have been imposed on those who sell the products through regulations, and the industry itself has established an authorisation system for financial advisors, which was absolutely necessary. The sellers would like to be people from local banks who had confidence in the people, but who might not have the best knowledge of what they sold, and the consequences for the customers in focus. Sales-based remuneration systems, which were contrary to the law, have also been addressed and also reduced the offensiveness of the sales processes. And the Financial Supervisory Authority has strengthened its focus on the consumer market. But to me, there's still something going on. Because when someone spends 300,000 kroner on legal bills to get their case tried in the Financial Complaints Department, as several have claimed, my conclusion is that someone might have been tricked again. Could it be that even lawyers see their cut to profit from these assignments, or is it because the system does not work after the intention to be a low-threshold offer? There are questions I have asked myself. It's probably not that easy to know the answer yet. I have therefore been in contact with the Financial Complaints Department to get more information about the practice that is here, and asked a number of questions, including: in relation to the type of form used, the duration of the proceedings, the average time of appeal, etc. There's a lot of things to look at here when the Council of State is going to take a review. Finally, I would like to say that Norway has a well-regulated financial sector, but there are clearly opportunities for improvement, and they have been taken along the way. But it has to go on, and I'm incredibly happy that there are so clear signals that you're doing that job further. Here it's been focusing for a long time, but it needs to be strengthened, and we need to be socially critical in this area. I'm looking forward to what's going to happen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1842	Norway is a country of particular interest. The financial market is not scary. I think all the speakers today have been up and said that these are very scary things. What's scary is not getting enough information about the risk you take when you invest. So I'd like to remind you that speculation is okay, as long as you know what you're doing. Tipping is okay, then the state gets 50 pst. Lotto's okay, then the state gets 50 pst. Casino is also ok, but it is not allowed here in this country. Anyway, taking risks with information is completely okay, as long as you know what you're doing. When I asked the Council of State instead if he agreed that someone would be protected from himself, he became a little uncertain, because then the ideology of the Workers' Party wails. On the one hand, they will be on the consumer side, including the silly consumers, on the other hand, they will also say that the market is going to work. The stock market, the stock market, it's really great. The absolute best way to control the private market is through shares. So it's ownership of the private companies. You could have other ways to do it. You can have state ownership – not always as successful. And you can only have capitalists who own industry and businesses – and not always as successful. But when you have a spread of ownership, like through the stock exchange, it makes sense. You take a risk, and don't come and tell me that most people don't realize that there's a risk of this, they do. I think it would be better to say that it is the duty of information that must be clear. You have to know what you're doing, but you're allowed to be stupid as long as you know you're actually stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1855	I do not agree that Norway is a country of particular interest. Norway is a country for very many lucky people who have great opportunities, much greater opportunities than many others. It was the exchange of lines between the Minister of Finance and the representative of Tybring-Gjedde and also the last post that made me take the floor. For this debate, there is no need to be a debate on the question of whether it is allowed to take risks when all the information is provided, as Tybring-Gjedde put it. That's not what the question is about when the Christian People's Party travels – praiseworthy – this case, and fortunately the Minister of Finance and Government answer as openly as you do. The main question has to be: should it be allowed to sell a product when you have provided all the information in many ways, in some form? I was so curious here during the day that I went into DNB Markets’ pages to learn what ‘warrants’ really were for something, and it’s not that easy to understand. But I looked at all the conditions that stood there, and to the extent that the description of the product, and if you read it very carefully, you don't want the product. It says that you can risk losing everything – these are very risky things. But that's not the challenge in these matters. The challenge here is that a good part of the people that people have seen as very good advisors in their private economy over many, many years, suddenly change faces and come with a whole new product with the same credibility and say that this is what you should put all your money in. We're not talking about lotto, we're not talking about tipping, we're talking about all the savings into a product, and then all of a sudden things go wrong. I also want to challenge the Minister of Finance and take it back – because I am pleased with the transparency and believe that we can get a good result out of this – that you actually underline the obligation of the seller in this market to discourage, to advise a product and say that I recommend that you not do this, and not just say that this is this product. Looking at new solutions to meet such a complex market, with so incomprehensible products – yes, in many ways it is almost like buying air – I also think it is very important to look at dispute resolution mechanisms that can benefit from outside the ordinary courts, which are faster and more reasonable, and that you look at the cost perspective very clearly, so that the consumer is able to go through the case. It should also be a challenge – when the government passes through the new legal aid legislation – to ensure that more people receive legal assistance, that this area is caught up in terms of free legal assistance for those with the lowest income, without increasing the proceeds in relation to free legal assistance, but that there are more people who have the opportunity to receive legal assistance, who contribute to getting the case through. But first of all, there is a question for all those who sell these products: Should you and you are allowed to sell them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1873	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1887	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Mr Kambe makes contributions to Mr Gunnar Gundersen, who is the rapporteur on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1898	I am then a substitute for the case rapporteur, who is ‘on assignment’, as it is called so fine, outside the Storting today. I think that the proposers have a good and important point, because it is important for the tax morals of people that they know that they get something left for tax money, and rather something concrete. States, counties and municipalities issue a number of reports on this. They are widely and easily available both in paper form and online, but we should have no illusion that they have become popular reading. We also see that every year, at least in the years when there were open tax equations, different media generate examples of how many meters of highway, highway and county road were financed – yes, the individual taxpayer could even be informed of how many percentages of annual compensation paid by a contributor to the individual’s tax. It's probably not all possible examples that will inspire taxpayers the same amount. A distinction must always be made between knowing what is good for citizens and what is necessary to know, not least against who is going to pay for all this information, when we also have an ambition for fewer public employees within just such information tasks. I am concerned that as much information as possible should be open to all. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, agrees with the proposers that it is important that the taxpayer understands and knows what the tax money is spent on. The State budget is difficult to obtain information for many, but a simple production there could provide everyone with a reliable and simple insight into the use of each individual contribution to the treasury. Information related to tax settlements is obviously an option, because information is then sent out to all taxpayers in any case – in a few weeks we get tax settlements. However, the majority also see significant challenges in achieving this. It's the Minister of Finance inside. It is not a direct link between the taxes and taxes paid and the offer the Norwegian State maintains, for the country's revenues are, fortunately, not just personal taxes and taxes. For example, for Norway: the large revenue generated by the oil sector is central and, in fact, more central to the economy of the country. The majority also believe that it would also be useful and appropriate to make this visible to the individual. It is also important to remember that studies show that many taxpayers do not fully understand the information they receive today. The majority of the Committee, consisting of all parties other than the Progress Party, sees it as important that new information in the future should not give the result that tax settlements become more difficult to obtain. The Committee notes that the Minister of Finance has a positive basic position to look at how simple information on the use of tax money can be designed. The Committee awaits the deliberations of the Ministry and, where appropriate, the presentation thereof to the Grand Duchy. The proposers believe that the government in its consultation response is too concerned about problematizing — some and each of them may recognize themselves when they have representative proposals. However, they are pleased that the Committee is partly in favour of the proposal. Neither the government parties nor the other civil parties reject the proposal but recommend that the minutes be attached. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1917	I also think it is worthwhile to issue information to the population about what the tax money is going to do. It's important. But I have a feeling that some of us – at least we from the red-green side – may have a somewhat different approach to this issue than the ones that proposers actually have. Basically, I think it can be assumed that most people in Norway have quite a good understanding of what our tax money is going to do. We see it in repeated tax-related measurements, but also in particular with regard to taxes and excise duties, that this has much more confidence in the population than it sometimes gets when you hear the opposition describe the taxes and taxes as such. That gives me an indication that people actually have more bearing than we sometimes think they have. It seems to me that it is important to have at the bottom of such a debate. When we from the Workers' Party believe that there are still opportunities to do more to inform the population — and then there may be an intermediary between writing something on some tax note and attaching to the national accounts — there are two reasons that particularly report. Firstly, it is important to strengthen legitimacy and trust in public and tax as an instrument of policy, that people are well informed about what the money is actually spent on. In this way, it is important to be informed about the purposes for which public spending is made. That's the one. The second is to a large extent the distribution policy of tax collection. It's about the role that the tax plays in order to be able to distribute and have a chance that those who have the most, also pay the most, and that you pay by ability. It's a little bit harder to show with pie charts, a short explanation. But I still want it to be brought with me when we have to assess whether there are any opportunities to provide more information to the citizens about this. A few aspects relating to the concrete design of such information and what kind of framework it should be around this, I would like to mention. Firstly, and this is what most people think – let us not now set up schemes that will be very burdensome and bureaucratic and delay much of the work of tax havens and other authorities. You have to be able to do this easily and in such a way that if people actually want even more information, we'd better link them to that information. The second point is that I think it's dangerous to go into a path where you individualize this kind of information. I say that a little bit on the basis of what I think is the reason for providing such information, among other things. from the point of view of distribution policy. Tax money, such as: I personally pay, is not the money that will go to finance the costs of having me walking around in this amazing country. I'm strongly opposed to an individualized information related to this, and I also think it's going to be very difficult. We do not pay taxes to finance – above all – the costs of our seas, but we pay by ability. It is difficult to explain, but the more important it is to have a good and general description of how the money is used. That is why I am in favour of the response that has come from the government that you will look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1934	It's been interesting to hear the posts so far, but I'll try to individualize a little, despite the great mountain's slightly skeptical attitude to it. Who in this room would have accepted to give away half of their income without getting a specification on what to spend the money for? The answer to that question is all of them. That's exactly what we and all the other taxpayers in this country do every day. We're going to make $100 and we're going to give 30, 40, or 50 of these heads to the state. We give them away without any guarantee that they are used in a reasonable way. No, we actually don't even know what the money is used for. Then, of course, it can be argued that the annual government budget is publicly available and that those interested can obtain information there. That's not enough. Of course, as the representative of Storberget, most people know what the money is spent on, because they see this amazing country, but I think it's a little special attitude to have 700 billion. kr. The total public expenditure currently amounts to a little over 1000 billion. kr. They confiscate more than 50 pst. GDP of mainland Norway. One third of this money is money that you and I have to give away – without receiving a receipt. The tax system does not operate with the designation of individual tax payments for specific expenditure purposes, nor is it likely to be desirable. But that taxpayers get a certain relationship with how the state and municipalities manage the money that is taxed should be fair and fair. If other agencies had put in place similar arrangements, we would protest. Yes, there would have been a breach of the applicable legal provisions. Tax payments are a spice layer, and the Nordics most of them are obligating, and we obey. Ask the government to get every two kroner of your income, we'll pay. The Civita organisation has made a calculation that suggests that those who currently have an income of DKK 500000 pay on average approximately. 160,000 kroner in taxes. It's 32 pst. For example, if you distribute this money to various public expenditures, as the public budget itself prioritizes, you will find that of these 160 000 kroner goes about. NOK 64 000 for social protection, i.e. Sickness, disability, old age, children, family, social support, approx. NOK 28 000 goes for different health purposes, approx. NOK 22000 goes to education, approx. NOK 17 000 went to the public service, approx. DKr 13 000 for industrial policy purposes, approx. NOK 6000 is in defence, etc. Of course, the question we have to ask ourselves is: does public welfare return to the population in line with what is paid for? Should we expect more? Is there anyone else who can make these tasks better and/or more reasonable? The Progress Party believes that the public should have an obligation to inform about what the money is spent on. It is of interest to taxpayers that, while the police, fire services, prison services and courts receive approx. Dr. 3000 of the 160 000 tax credits mentioned above, receives culture, leisure and religion approx. NOK 4000. Together with an overview of how the government manages large parts of the population's wage income, it should be clear how much tax is levied, how much the government saves or borrows, and what areas it maintains at all times relatively high priority and what it prioritises. If increased tax access indicates that the government does not need to prioritize anything down, this is also interesting information for taxpayers, as, for example, increased tax revenues from oil and gas could have been accompanied by lower income taxes for most people, which in turn could have led to lower taxes — a debate we have been through. The representative Storberget said he feared an individualized overview of this. But it's actually individuals we are. We're not another individual. We're not a lot where everyone is going to collect into a big pot, and then we're going to distribute again. We are individuals from cradle to grave, and therefore individuals should also be told how much they contribute. We agree that it should be a progressive tax system – the Progress Party also agrees. But we think that the information should actually be given. I think that might be good, not only for the one who taxes a lot, but also for the one who taxes relatively little, so that you can see that services are actually sponsored by others. That's also an important point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1957	The majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party, refer to the finance minister’s positive basic attitude and willingness to look at the theme, how to inform about the use of tax money. That's good. The proposal of the Progress Party is as follows: 'The Government is asked to implement a system [[...]] In the opinion of the Centre Party, providing key data information to taxpayers in the context of the tax settlement is positive. For example, one should also provide information to the taxpayer about what taxpayers have now paid in terms of tax compared to what is gross taxable income. Then more people will be admitted that what the Progress Party has just mentioned, 50 pst. tax, that it's now a reality for many, is something that lives on the mouth of the people. The truth is, there's a reality too few, when you look at what an actually pays in relation to its gross taxable income. The point of the Progress Party to get more information is good. There aren't many times I refer to the United States, but there's been a long practice that there's been a sign along the way with the text 'Your tax money at work'. That's good -- your tax money at work. As mentioned earlier here, we should be able to go further. But then we should go further, for example. on universal well-being – not individual schemes, but universal schemes. What are we all universally given in public assistance for medical visits? What are we all getting in assistance with a nursery place? What is it that we all get in aid in connection with a nursing home? That's interesting information. Medical visits are a very good example, where very few have clarity about what government pays, and what a sail pays. However, when it comes to looking at taxes in terms of employment and business, it is much more difficult and almost impossible to do so properly. Because in the context of the country's use of labour and business, one cannot look at the tax money regardless of the organisation of business and working life. Organisation through laws, regulations, competition law and the whole of it is of great importance to the ability of the different labour and business sectors to earn profits. So in that area, it would be completely irrelevant to talk about how a person spends public tax money. Finally, it is an interesting proposal. The Progress Party says that a system should be put in place. Well, then it's up to the government, which is positive about it, to give it its content, to contribute to greater public information and a greater understanding of just this, that one should pay taxes according to ability, and that one should also meet their needs according to the community's ability to do so. That's a very good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1972	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e1999	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2008	As the president said, we are now dealing with two things at a time. The one thing, if so-called ROT and RUT deductions, is also discussed just one year ago, when we debated her during the revision debate last year. At that time, everyone voted against, except the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party voted in favour of one part of the proposal. This year, only the Progress Party is adjusting to introduce ROT and RUT deductions. I'm going to repeat some of the arguments for why we don't support the proposal this year either. The second proposal is from the Right, on tax deductions for energy measures in barley. There are also proposals for energy checks in residential buildings and an assessment of the reversal of VAT for the construction industry. Tax fraud is dealt with in the revised national budget, and one does not go in to introduce it. I'll start with the proposal on ROT and RUT. That proposal has a clear provenance of consequence. The Swedish Ministry of Finance states in its 2012 Spring Proposition that the tax costs related to ROT and RUT are estimated at 14.4 billion. Swedish krona. In 2011, the Swedish Tax Agency paid 15.3 billion. Swedish krona. There is a basis for believing that if a corresponding deduction were to be introduced in Norway, there would have been a large amount of tax expenditure here too. The Swedish deduction is only available to owners. Norway has fewer inhabitants than Sweden, but a much larger part that owns its own housing. The deduction was introduced in Sweden, for example: as a result of high unemployment. Norway has a lower unemployment rate, rather than a shortage of craftsmen. This means that one had had a less employment effect and thus a higher net tax expense. In the worst case, we could risk that large parts of the tax cut were consumed by an increase in the price of craftsmanship services. Today I could read in my own local way that in Akershus the companies are now missing 2,425 people – and a large part in the construction industry. The deduction could help to make housing investments even more advantageous. It's not wise in a situation where housing price growth is already high. One also sees that such deductions will have adverse distribution effects. I have examined how the so-called RUT deduction – i.e. the deduction that applies to services in the world – works in Sweden. There are most people with high incomes who can benefit from that deduction. If you trust income, you don't get a deduction, because then you don't pay taxes. There is considerable uncertainty about the employment effect of that scheme. I have to say, if people want to buy help for the home, it's okay. But I'm not so sure if someone should use the community's resources to give tax cuts to those who can afford to buy such services. So to the proposal on tax deductions for climate-friendly investments in own housing. As I see it, this is a modified proposal of the ROT deduction. Climate-friendly investments are positive, but I think it must be possible to use already established social benefits, such as: Enova and the House Bank. When it comes to the proposal on energy checks of dwellings, I have to mention that energy labelling requirements have already been introduced in halls, rentals and construction of buildings. In addition, AMS – advanced power meters – must be installed with all consumers by 2017. It can help raise awareness of energy consumption and stimulate more energy saving. Both the ROT, RUT deduction and the deduction of climate-friendly investments have in common that they can have adverse distribution effects. There is reason to believe that high-income taxpayers will make more use of the deduction than those with low incomes. Furthermore, on investment deductions, there will be no right of deduction for tenants. It is argued that you can reduce black work if you introduce a ROT deduction, and we agree that we should work towards black work. But I wonder if one should pass by to keep the promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2029	The case spokesperson made some statements that I would like to comment on first. A happy jump over the tax income you get from this. It's just the tax expense you're busy with. Yeah, we have low unemployment here in Norway, but we actually have black work too. Do you want to do something about it? So about help in the world: we want it to be in order relationship. We don't want anyone to have bad working conditions to help you in a home. This was the beginning, but then: In the last week, we discussed here in the hall the thorough employment message about a decent working life, which is very important. All were some that the employment in Norway is good. Nevertheless, there are some major challenges. One of them is black work. That's why the Progress Party wants to come up with measures - just to reduce and get rid of undeclared work. Sweden, Denmark and Finland have introduced tax exemptions for different types of work in their own housing, including: rehabilitation, maintenance, childcare, cleaning and target species testing. After three years of ROT deduction in Sweden, black work, according to a report from the Construction Industry in Collaboration and the Entrepreneurs, dated October 2011, has fallen by 90 pst. in the construction industry. The party of progress notes that the majority in the committee argue that they have reason to believe, but they lack evidence of this threat when they argue against the proposal. The majority also indicate that in Sweden it is those with high incomes that benefit from the deduction. There is also a lack of thorough evidence here for this claim. Here's a quotation from the setting: ‘The majority also see that such a deduction would have adverse distributive effects, as there is reason to believe that taxpayers with high incomes would make more use of the deduction than those with low incomes, as is the case in Sweden.’ I would say that the rich in Norway buy their services, regardless of whether they get tax deductions. This deduction is used to help those who are young children’s parents, who are in time together and need services – those who are in the middle when it comes to income. The Swedish Confederation was in favour of the introduction of the ROT deduction because unprofessional competitors threaten workers with missing collective agreements and lacking serious conditions, such as taxes and safety at work. Isn't it nice that the tradesmen chose to look at the scheme as a good solution to clean up a market of unprofessional activities? They reasoned that the benefits of a serious labour market are better than the argument that the proposal exists for a few, rich, who can reconstruct their kitchen more often than others. The proposers point out that this was said in an article at a meeting where the theme was «Fight against Black Work – Swedish experience with ROT deductions», which was held with the National Association of Building Industries on 21 February this year. The Progress Party indicates that the Tax Payer Association, the Construction Masters Association and the National Association of Construction Industry have been in charge of such a scheme also in Norway. The arguments for the scheme are based on the positive conclusions drawn in other countries. In Norway, industry expects such a deduction scheme to reduce undeclared work, increase the number of jobs, and private households to be affected by energy-efficient measures in their housing. The government is using the term ‘social dumping’ in any case where there is a breach of the Working Environment Act, and they have also been busy fighting black work in different industries, such as the maintenance and hotel industry and not least the construction industry. This proposal has more aspects in itself than just tax deductions. We know that unemployment in Europe is high, especially among young people. The Prime Minister himself has said that we must expect that the economic downturn in southern Europe will also affect us, as the Minister of Finance also mentioned in the financial speech of the year. It is amazing that the other parties are unable to see the wholeness and context of such a proposal. In Denmark, researchers say that one can lose a whole generation due to unemployment, in Sweden, the corresponding system has led many without education to get a job, while in Norway, there is someone alive to put in place the corresponding system, because they think it only applies to the rich. In recent times it has been a children's egg debate in the media. In this proposal, there is a real way of thinking about children's eggs that can be set aside for a better working life. You get a job arranged for a lot of people. One more job, and the state gets more into tax money. Can we really say no? I then take up the Progress Party's proposals and the proposals we share with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2062	The representative Laila Marie Reiertsen has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2065	In Norway, in the Right’s view, there is not exactly the same need to stimulate increased employment in the construction industry through broad tax deductions within the sector. In Sweden, therefore, according to the proposer, there is a tax gain on housing sales under the ROT and RUT schemes. You don't have that in Norway. It follows a logical symmetry principle that one should not have a deduction if one does not have a levy, and so the Right does not want to impose taxes on the sale of a dwelling, such as: SV has proposed. The right has made a similar proposal but limits the right to deduct labour due to environmentally friendly conversions with good effect. Against this background, the Right will not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party on the one proposal. Private households make up 68 pst. of energy consumption in the building mass of Norway. In the view of the Right, the individual owner of the dwelling must be given good incentives to streamline his own energy use by investing in effective measures. That's not so much the case today. Enova currently has a template-based support scheme, which in practice means that Enova’s funds are not available to private homes and smaller housing companies, but actually focus more on the large ones. NOK 10000 to replace an oil fire with geothermal heat to NOK 200000–300000 is not exactly the high stimuli, and the right believes targeted tax deductions can produce a better, positive – and unbureaucratic – effect. It is appropriate to focus on socio-economical and priority actions that can contribute to meeting the objectives of the Climate Change Agreement. Of course, the right will also have a ceiling on this tax deduction of NOK 50 000, so that we do not get the huge consequences that they have in Sweden. We think that a good alternative is therefore tax relief exclusively for energy efficiency measures, a scheme that has gradually become called EnergyFunn. Some of the aid currently channelled through Enova’s support schemes may instead be tax credited to households. Climate 2020 recommends the use of the tax system to stimulate such measures through its own deductions. Five main energy efficiency improvement measures are mentioned and should be considered. It is energy follow-up, insulation and sealing, technical equipment, energy management and low energy solutions – all of which, of course, in combination – and that windows are replaced. Of the five measures, three point to socio-economic profitability. These are energy follow-up, insulation, sealing and low energy solutions. Many of these solutions are so expensive that the aid schemes currently in place by the State do not trigger them, even though households would like to see them reasonable. Thus, by having a ceiling of NOK 50000, several households would have been able to afford, the economy and want to do something about this. The right is not fully convinced that the type of communication that Enova has had makes Norway’s population queue to take the necessary measures: post-insulation, window shifting and other major measures. Arrangements are needed which are much more provocative. EnergyFunn is a mechanism that allows one to receive tax deductions for documented costs related to energy efficiency measures in owner-occupied dwellings. If the scheme is put in place, private owners and housing companies could deduct 50 pst. of documented labour costs of energy efficiency measures implemented from taxable profit — limited to NOK 50000. In the opinion of the Court, the introduction of such a deduction would increase investment in measures cutting energy consumption. It will be a very good measure to cut the energy consumption of 2.3 million owner-occupiers in Norway. In a recent study by Sentio Research for Norsk Technology — and where the results are presented on the web site båktualt.no — it states that two of the three owner-occupiers who have not planned to implement power saving measures state that they would have taken action to cut their electricity consumption if any of the investments could be deducted from the tax. These results indicate that the EnergyFunn scheme will be highly effective if it is introduced. That is the background to the proposal that the Right has with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that I take up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2095	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2098	The right-hand proposal on tax deductions for documented costs related to efficiency measures has many demanding points in itself, and I want to make it quite clear to myself that – point one – there is little one that can do in a dwelling without improving energy efficiency. And point two: As I have seen the invoices for the work that I get done by a craftsman, it is not specified in such a way that it explains in particular what has been done. In case we were to introduce such a system, we would have to have a claim for specification of the invoices that would involve a bureaucracy that I cannot see from. Continuing the discussion about having special tax credits for energy efficiency measures in housing seems to me to be something we should soon add, because it is impracticable to do so in a way that enables us to ensure that purpose in a good way for ordinary taxpayers. With regard to the second proposal on free energy checks, government parties say that this should be included in the wholesale communication on housing policy. To that I would say that most of the barley is older barley. That's it, and that's it. Not many people live in passive houses today, and in the future there will not be many who live in so-called passive houses – what it really means. It must be allowed to live in a little bit more suspect houses. There must be no such requirement that one should uniformize it all to those degrees. It's a little bit of a question of what kind of heating source you're using. If you have a guessed house and a sensible source of heating, there is no great disadvantage to society. So I'm appealing to be a little bit more sober at this point. What the government is adding up to – it's coming, but it's getting late – which is important, is a power pricing on electricity. If we had a power pricing on electricity, i.e. they paid more to take the peaks, it would be an incentive to isolate and improve their housing and also to secure renewable energy sources other than electricity – which is to the degrees positive. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party to introduce tax deductions for craft and service activities carried out in owner-occupied dwellings and recreational housing, we are concerned with the same thing. It's a fact that there's a huge amount of black work related to housing and recreational housing. But as the proposal here is, craftsmanship and service tasks are not operational in order to be able to be practised. I want to use my last minutes for what's from the Right and the Left in the setting. That's where they say that they « notes that the Council of State, by letter to the Committee, points to a more favourable tax regime for the sale of housing in Norway than in Sweden. [[...]] An introduction of ROT/RUT deductions will have to be combined with the introduction of the tax on the profits of the sale of housing in order not to increase the asymmetry of the taxation of housing’. That's very interesting! For the first time, the right asymmetry points out in such a way that you don't want to increase it. That's very interesting. I'm asking that the press remember that point. It goes on to say: ‘These members do not consider this to be relevant or interesting’; - So you have to improve this. And they say, "These members see it as important not to create new, strong tax incentives that will further increase the level of investment." [[...]] That's very interesting! Finally, we may be able to have a discussion about the housing tax and the major weaknesses in it. Today, it is incredibly expensive for people who have bad advice and who have to rent their home. You should have done something about that. It should be beneficial to live in their own home and not to invest so favourably in the living quarters of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2131	It hardly comes as a surprise to anyone when I say that the Left wants a change of tax system in a more environmentally friendly direction. We want to make it pay to act environmentally friendly, also stimulated by the tax system. This should take place through a wide range of instruments, both through increased environmental taxes, own ecological criteria, for example. TaxFUNN, through the depreciation rules and through direct tax deductions for energy efficiency measures in owner-occupied housing – as proposed in one of the two representative proposals we are now considering. Both of the proposals we are dealing with have been discussed and discussed in the past. With regard to the proposal to stimulate climate-friendly investment in owner-occupied housing, the Left has proposed variants of this in several of our alternative state budgets. We also repeat this when we deal with the revised national budget on Friday. I note that the Minister of Finance believes that the proposal for a tax lighter for energy efficiency measures will ‘constitute demarcation problems and cities on administrative challenges’, and must therefore be investigated in this case. At the same time, the Minister of Finance writes: ‘A system of deduction of energy-saving measures could have positive environmental effects in isolation.’ The left considers that it cannot only have positive environmental effects; it will have positive environmental effects. Therefore, it makes sense to introduce the scheme. It's not that complicated. Because what are we talking about? Yes, a right to a deduction of up to NOK 50000 for measures such as: replacement of old towing windows, after insulation of roofs and walls and/or installation of heat pump or similar. It is not particularly complicated and not very difficult to define or calculate costs for. In our alternative to the revised budget, the Left has assumed that up to 10000 people make such improvements in the second half of 2012, with an average deduction of NOK 40000. We have therefore proposed amendments to the appropriations in line with this. I have previously registered that the head of the Centre Party has called for a similar arrangement. With regard to the Norwegian version of the Swedish RUT and ROT schemes, for which the second proposal for a representative is addressed, the Left considers this to be very low-targeted tax havens. The Norwegian economy, and not least the Norwegian labour market, is in a completely different situation than Sweden when these schemes were introduced. These are schemes primarily designed to stimulate employment and thus produce dynamic effects, such as more in tax receipts and less in social security expenditure. The Norwegian labour market is known – and fortunately – characterised by very low unemployment. Corresponding schemes in Norway would therefore not have the same effect but would have been exclusively a tax haven. The left is not tax-free, but it also wants to spend the same money on, among other things. to increase the minimum deduction for all, and not primarily for those who can afford, or can afford, laundry services or to clean up their own dwellings. With reference to the debate we had yesterday on price formations in the housing market, it is clear that these proposals will further contribute to increasing prices of dwellings. I also share the Minister of Finance's assessment of the impact of these proposals on black work: 'An effect that seems otherwise overestimated'. This view is also shared by the Swedish independent fiscal council, which in its annual reports has stressed that in particular ROT deductions, or deductions from craft services, which is the deduction that costs billions of dollars per year, hardly contributes to any particular socio-economic efficiency or gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2171	There has been a lot of sense in the debate so far – and I shall confine myself to some comments. Initially, I think it is important to stick to what is a sort of a golden rule in terms of the tax system, and that is to provide for a broad tax base and low rates. This means that you should have the lowest possible deductions, and you should have a tax system that is robust in this way. That is why I am both sceptical and skeptical about tax deductions – mostly – in different areas. It is important to stick to the base bar. The second thing that has been discussed by several speakers is that it is important to ensure the symmetry of the tax system, because it is that where expenditure is to be granted, there should also be income. It is probably seven years since own-dwelling income was abolished. It's important to have this with you. I'm glad that the Right so strongly emphasizes just that. Then it is also the case, as has been pointed out, that a proposal for new deduction schemes within the ROT and RUT has a poor distribution effect, because it rewards those who have the most from before. The Swedish proposal was based in due course on the conditions of the Swedish labour market. It was an employment measure. It is different in Norway, which was also discussed by the rapporteur. There is a high speed in the construction industry. There is considerable pressure in parts of the construction industry. If it was such that there was free resources available in the construction industry, and it was to be used for housing purposes, I would prefer it to be used to build new dwellings, to reduce the gap between the offer and demand for housing. Another point is that if you look at the consumption of housing by the North, we are at the top of the house for the maintenance, refurbishment and use of our income. According to the national accounts, about 220 billion. housing consumption, including light and fuel, while we spend about 100 billion. kr for initial investment in dwellings. So this is an area where there is significant velocity today. Then I will also refer to what the representative Tenden was about in his post. We have experienced – and experience, even though it has flattened a little in the last month – a strong increase in housing prices. The introduction of additional tax deductions in that sector will give impetus to further increases in housing prices. There will go across the wish many in this room have, to dampen the price pressure. It is also right, as the representative Lundtigen points out, that investment in owner-occupied housing already has a favourable tax on the basis of a desired policy that it should be so in this area, for example. that you have a low asset value on what you call the primary dwelling. I think it's important to see this proposal in that light. In the case of undeclared work, it is true that, with reference to the Swedish scheme, the effect of such a tax deduction on undeclared work is likely to be significantly exaggerated. After all, it is not riskless to have used – what you might call – a black plumber if there is a leak and there is no membrane in the bath floor, and then you go to the insurance company and ask for the damage to be covered. It's important to have multiple sides of this. Black work has to be controlled by multiple lines, and there's a lot of other ways to do it. Then I would also like to remind you that you have made it easier to have help with simple services through the tax system's stencil rules. I would also like to show that there is a bet on kindergartens, and that there are deductions for legitimate expenses for the care and care of young people. With regard to the proposal to tax incentives for energy investments, I would like to refer to what the rapporteur said. Here I would prefer to use the established scheme through Enova. In addition, if you have a tax-stimulated scheme, you get double stimulation. Otherwise, with reference to the representative, Kambe, I have actually invested in basic heating systems, as I think it makes sense, even though it cost a lot. But there came a few dollars from Enova at the end of the day, to say it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2200	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2203	I want to thank the Council of State for finally getting into something different than just a house and home. Work is also very important in a debate on this proposal. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see anything positive in the proposal when it comes to blackmailing and poor employment, and can he come up with good measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2210	I am a very strong supporter of a decent working life. This means that either you are employed in an enterprise, or you are employed to do tasks in a home on white terms – to use that expression – you must have decent working conditions and decent pay. It's important. They have been given the opportunity through e.g. stencil deductions for carrying out random domestic missions. I mean that's the way to go. Most of us should see that in many ways there is a high risk associated with undeclared work, such as using craftsmen as you pay black, that you are doing worse if you are going to get an insurance case as a result of bad work. So there's a lot of positive aspects of hiring people and paying them white – whether it's here or there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2217	Common to some of the proposals that have been put forward today is the concern for black work in the construction industry. It's pretty big. One of the proposals that the Right is promoting today – and which the Government is really taking down in the revised budget that we are going to be considering on Friday – is a proposal that Sweden has put in place on a reversal of VAT. Now, professionals in Sweden may reject the fact that the decline in black work is not due to the ROT and RUT deduction, but it may be due to the introduction of a reversal of VAT, that it is where the effect has been. The government of Norway has said that they do not want to focus on this; it is on the last five pages of the revised national budget. Is the Council of State positive for the future to look at the reversal of VAT in a broader context than only a few aspects of the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2226	Special measures have been targeted at the construction industry over several years to address what one has seen tend to, i.e. black work, VAT evasion, and so on, other industries. This has been done through control, bookkeeping, etc. The mom system is important. With regard to the narrow discussion on the reversal of VAT, I refer to the revised national budget. However, on the part of the government, we will always be able to accept good proposals aimed at improving the VAT system and the role of the VAT system, both in terms of providing the Community with high incomes, but also in terms of contributing to the proper and lawful conduct of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2233	The last councillor Johnsen said in his post that he had replaced oil-fired water-borne heat – perhaps – with geothermal heat, and that makes sense. According to the climate agreement, oil firing shall be gradually prohibited; it shall be phased out. Then there are many households, and the industry, who are now waiting to know when the measures come. There are two logical phases here, and one question is: will you get a concrete plan of escalation with regard to Enova funds, in terms of what is needed to replace them, for example. An oil guy? And will it come in connection with the housing announcement, as the rumors say will come on Friday or next week, or do you have to wait until the state budget for 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2242	In terms of operationalisation – to use that expression – of the climate communication and the climate agreement discussed in Stortinget last Monday: this is what we are going to do. This means that the natural places to follow up things that have a budgetary impact are, of course, in the annual government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2247	I have myself – before I was elected here at Stortinget – run a small company in cleaning and household care and such things, and we quickly learned that our biggest competitor was actually the ones who were driving black work. I'm assuming that a lot of people in this room know about it too – not that you use it yourself, but you might know a lot of people who do it, whether they're neighbors, friends or acquaintances. When looking at the experience from other countries, where tax deductions have been introduced on such services: the Council of State does not believe that it will both generate more tax revenue, because it will then become a more white market, and that much – as was also mentioned here – will be removed as social dumping. I would like an explanation as to why this is not going to happen in Norway, when you look at the experience from other countries, and most people know someone who uses a domestic service that they don't pay white.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2256	I should not rule out that it could have an effect if one introduced a Swedish scheme. However, as referred to in Swedish studies, the importance of this tax deduction is significantly exaggerated. I have more faith that an appealer that there are decent and good employers in this industry. That's point one. The second point is that if you want to extend the scheme in this area, you should rather look at today's stencil rules for help to the'simple mission in the world' to use that expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2263	Does the Council of State have such evidence that the regulatory framework has resulted in much less undeclared work in Norway? Have there been any studies that there has been much less black work in Norway? I repeat my question, which goes a little on sight, but my own experience as the executive director and director of a small company – quite rightly many years ago, but I still know a lot of people in that business – is that there is a lot of black work, especially in terms of cleaning services. The Council of State refers to Sweden: OK, we can leave Sweden as a separate part, but there is no doubt a lot of black work in that particular area in Norway, and there does not seem to be any significant improvement in that area. It would have been nice to get an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2270	I still want to hold on to the fact that for simple problems at home, the way to go is to see if the stencil rules are good enough. On the other hand, as I said before, it is better to appeal to employers and people and others to have decent and good conditions. The third thing I wanted to point out, which I think is important, and which has happened in recent years, is that one has had a significant investment in the development of kindergartens, which has obviously had an effect, in the sense that it's full kindergarten coverage, and one has a deduction for the care and care of children. So I think there's been a lot of progress in terms of things being different than they were a few years ago. But there is no reason to close your eyes because in Norway too there are significant elements of black work, which we have to fight in different ways. But I don't think new tax credits are the best way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2280	The chord change has thus been completed
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2283	Well, we're making up for millions in this country – well and good. But I think what happens then is that one pushes out a bigger black market because one can't meet the needs. Then we'll be in a state of commotion. In other words, the government wants a sleep cushion instead, we only get to accept a black market out there, because they won't do anything about it. Lundtägen was involved in this by having this practised. Why it's harder to get this practised here in the country in relation to Sweden, I don't understand. He was also very busy bowing in his own dwelling. Then you have to make a donation first, and then you have to make a allowance for your own living. Then it does not benefit to be on a black market with poor employment conditions etc. Governments answer this with the fact that now it is full child care coverage and that it would solve most of it. I don't think so. There are many people in this country who don't have children in kindergarten, and those who have them work full time both. They're going to have time for everything, they're going to buy more and more services. So it's also going to be a bigger black market. But like the good FrP I am, I know it's going on for a while, and then this proposal is decided by some others. It's all right -- I might have the consolation eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2294	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2300	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2308	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 4-7, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 8, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 7 has been included in the setting on page 41, while proposal No. 8 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals for a contingency plan for drug addicts and for the psychiatry of the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government of the State budget for 2013 to propose an increase in the revenues of municipalities of 1.5 billion. SEK in addition to what the government signals in the Municipal Proposition in 2013 and that these funds are mainly earmarked as operational funds for care of the elderly, primary schools, child protection, and drug use and psychiatry.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to propose an increase in the income of the counties of 2,0 billion. in addition to the government signaled in the Municipal Proposition 2013 and that these are earmarked for the maintenance and upgrading of the county road network.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2013 with an overview of the actual need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation of municipal and county infrastructure, and to promote the necessary proposals for a stepping-up plan to facilitate the conditions for the necessary upgrading.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2358	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure the necessary coherence between the funding base, industrial development and service production in the local government sector. In the 2013 government budget, therefore, tax revenue as a share of total revenue must be about 50 p.m., and the government asks the government to submit proposals to the municipal taxpayer that meet this objective.» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2375	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a sample to review and propose a reduction in the total number of laws, regulations and reporting requirements, etc. regulating the municipal sector and local democracy.’» The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2392	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that 4.25 pst. by corporation tax is retained by the municipalities in which the values are created.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the digitisation of public services and to ensure a functioning national strategy for ICT solutions that strengthens the ability of municipalities to provide services to their citizens’.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2432	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose that the small municipal grant be phased out over a period of, for example, 10 years and that municipalities that join together receive full one-off compensation from the government for the loss arising from basic grants and, where appropriate, any other benefits that lapse.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2460	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the right, which reads: ‘Document 8:63 S [[2011-2012]] The left has announced that they will support the proposal. The President assumes that the Progress Party is now supporting this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2484	10 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2-10, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-10, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that complex savings products such as warrants are not offered to non-professional investors’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the establishment of an independent State body of complaint for financial services.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that financial institutions do not use the concept of ‘savings product’ or similar unless the product meets certain requirements that make it suitable for savings purposes. ‘... Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that investment advisors and others who advise on the purchase of savings and investment products should always disclose the characteristics of individual products, such as bank deposits and index fund units, or repayment of loans, and advise this as an alternative where it is in the interests of the customer.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that more frequent supervision is carried out on both market behaviour and products. [[e.g. customer mapping]] [[e.g. loan-funded saving and complex products]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the supervisory authorities with extended powers to impose administrative penalties as fees, in order to allow for better response to the seriousness of the infringements and to ensure better compliance. ‘... Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that financial undertakings which do not comply with decisions taken by consumers in favour of consumers have to cover the consumer’s costs in connection with any legal action.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that clients of financial undertakings which are not linked to a complaint may require the examination of a dispute, provided that they have been established for the purpose of resolving disputes within the sphere of activity of the financial undertaking and that the King has approved the statutes of the Board of Directors.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals to amend the dispute law as soon as possible so that proceedings against banking and financial institutions brought by individuals can be brought before the Conciliation Council.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2551	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that financial supervision places greater emphasis on consumer considerations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2606	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a free energy inspection scheme for residential buildings in the context of the State budget for 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2634	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left, saying, ‘The government is asked to propose a tax-reduction scheme for documented costs related to energy efficiency measures in owner-occupied housing, a so-called EnergyFunn scheme, so that the scheme can be implemented in the State budget for 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2654	During the debate Laila Marie Reiertsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a so-called ROS and ROT deduction to combat undeclared work, gross exploitation of labour and to facilitate increased employment.’ [[Social dumping]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-13.ana.ud101e2685	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
