ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e95	Honourable co-representatives! Former agent Marie Brenden is dead, 74 years old. It was engagement in the local environment that led Marie Brenden into politics. Everything that could contribute to making Saksumdal a better rural community became the arena of Marie's multiplicity. Here she rebuilt the work force, started kindergarten, became a librarian, a proponent for new kindergarten, director of the sports team and Saksumdal Building. Marie Brenden was representative of Oppland and the Workers' Party from 1985 to 1997. During the three periods she was elected, she was a member of the Social Committee, the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee. She also met in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, was a delegate to the UN General Assembly and a delegate to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. Engaged as she was, Brenden held many public positions and positions of trust in the party and organisations. A position she particularly appreciated was as a member of the Board of Directors of the Lillehammer Olympic Organisation Committee (LOOC) in 1988-1993. Her involvement in sports also benefited her colleagues and employees at Stortinget. She held the executive board of the Stortinges Sports Act four of her twelve years as a magnificent representative. Marie Brenden was a genuine political man. She was a politician many listened to before they drew their conclusions in difficult matters. She was, like, always at the center of the big group's opinions. Marie Brenden had a lukewarmness and gladly contributed with good lines. She was a self-righteous person who would all well, a person who had the ability to see you, and who could listen. Not getting elected and employees of the Workers' Group chose to listen to Marie's wise words and judgements. After contributing to national and county policy, she again became involved in local policy. Until recently, she showed a social exposure that was respected. She was particularly concerned that even those who were a little worse off than most had to be taken care of. We thank Marie Burnden for her work and brighten the peace of her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e116	The representatives Knut Storberget, Mette Hanekamhaug, Torgeir Tåldal, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, Eirin Sund, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Per Sandberg, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 20 November to 23 November to take part in the mission of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Afghanistan from the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten on study leave from 20 November to 23 November from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative Vigdis Giltun from 20 November until 23 November until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Troms, Bjørn Inge Mo, there is an application for a waiver to meet under the leave of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, for welfare reasons. The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. – It is deemed to have been adopted Other alternates of the state of Troms, Hilde Anita Nyvoll, currently have maternity leave and are therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Northern Ireland: Kari Storstrand For the counties of Troms: Viggo Fossum For Eastfold County: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e193	Kari Storstrand, Viggo Fossum and Monica Carmen Gåsvatn are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e201	The representative, Mr Schou, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e204	On behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Borghild Tenden, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I have the honour to deliver a proposal for a representative to develop a new digital emergency network.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e209	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e213	It is a pleasure to appeal to the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and signed on the immediate reinforcement of the rescue helicopter preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e218	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 16 due to the derivation of the painting ‘H.M. King Harald's oath" in the hiking hall, and set again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e236	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e245	The data protection has not been forgotten. It is our main tool for day-to-day data protection in the administration. It helps us keep order in the private sector and in the Norwegian public in general. Supervision deals with issues that are very important to citizens. Data protection helps us by making us aware of areas of particular risk and can also provide advice on how to reduce the harm potential of personal data. The Committee has also highlighted on previous occasions the importance of supervisory advisory work in relation to the various social sectors and organisations there, in order to develop together good industry standards. The development of professional cutbacks that go beyond the minimum legal requirements for the processing of personal data may supplement formal laws and regulations, while reminding stakeholders that they should not necessarily exploit the technical possibilities at the extreme limit of the law. The Committee would also point out that the practical experience gained by the Data Protection Supervisor through its activities represents a knowledge centre for data protection issues which the legislator can use in the development of new rules, when and if technological developments so require. Therefore, the Ombudsman’s role as a participant in the societal debate is welcome. We also see that the issues that the supervision identifies for us through the Annual Report are important messages to the Stortinget as legislator. The Committee took note in its annual communication that there is a movement in international data protection. Both in the EU, the OECD and the Council of Europe there is a review of international standards on privacy. In fact, legal developments in the EU during this reporting period — but also in this year — have given rise to some optimism. For my part, I want to record that the implementation of the Data Storage Directive has stopped, which was so very important to many, is now suspended. At the same time, the new initiative that approaches the issues from the other side – how can we extend citizens' privacy? In January this year, the European Commission proposed a completely new regulatory framework for the modernisation of EU data protection rules. It is a general regulation on the protection of personal data, and it should therefore replace the Data Protection Directive, which has been implemented in Norway in the past by the Data Protection Act of 2000. There are in particular four principles that are essential here: first, that you strengthen the right to be forgotten. You have to make it easier to move data from one provider to another, where the first one, like this. has lost a customer relationship, is required to delete information. Thirdly, there is a requirement for documentation, which moves a little further away from the concessional process and above to demonstrate good practices for the processing of sensitive personal data. Then it's also – quite reasonable – made simpler rules for smaller businesses. This is a development of justice that I think is very exciting. We have not tabled a major and long general debate on privacy issues today, and the Committee's attitude reflects the broad consensus on the importance of privacy. Nevertheless, we have to admit that when we come under the general assessments that everyone can agree on, there appeared to be a somewhat different balance between government and opposition, which in the Committee is represented with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. There are two points in the setting that we have separated a little layer. One is that, in particular, the members of the Committee of the Advancement Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have highlighted the problems of institutions and schools not being able to hold class lists internally. The second is that the same members have highlighted how good it is that tax information now does not move freely around in cyberspace. The government has probably been pressured into this by an opinionary pressure, but there's of course government parties have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e260	The annual processing of annual reports by the Data Protection Supervisor and the Subject provides the Stortinget with an opportunity to discuss privacy. The rapporteur has given a good account of the Committee's work on the matter. Technological developments are moving rapidly. It's not that many years since we talked about EDB, electronic data processing. Today, the term is out of date because there is hardly any electronic data processing. On 25 January, the European Commission presented proposals for the modernisation of EU standards of protection. Today’s data protection legislation is largely from 1995, when less than one per cent of Europeans used the Internet. In October, together with the Progress Party of Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, I attended a meeting between the European Parliament and national parliaments in Europe on the reform. Norwegian media give the impression that the discussion in the EU is moving towards a reduced level of privacy. That's the opposite that happens. The proposed reform strengthens individual rights. These include: the right to be forgotten and consent to the retention of personal data. Because technology is international, we need rules to ensure cross-border privacy. The Data Protection Authority has participated in the preparatory work on the new EU data protection legislation. It is good, and it is essential that the Data Protection Authority also has the opportunity and priority to participate in the discussions in the EU in the future. It is important that supervision is up-to-date in the field of technological development and international thinking in the field of privacy. In the reporting year 2011, the Stortinge decided to implement the Data Storage Directive. I will not go into the matter again, but only note that parts of the debate inside and outside the Storting had a form we are hardly served with. Of course, our neighbouring countries, which have introduced the Directive, are not ‘totalitarian monitoring communities’. That being said, the debate in recent years on privacy has been valuable. It has raised awareness of the importance of privacy and how this is challenged by changing technology. I would also like to comment briefly on one of the opposition's comments — the tax information: for the Workers' Party, transparency about tax information is important. For all adherents of democracy and the liberal economy, transparency about economic conditions should be a matter of course. There are also a number of examples that searchlights on equation numbers have given regulatory changes, for example: in the fight against zero-taxors, taxes on real wealth, higher taxes on capital incomes that are actually employee incomes, and focus on high incomes across industries, such as lawyers and brokers. However, new technologies have led to the dissemination and use of these tax information, which in some cases have crossed the threshold of what we should accept for privacy reasons and which have opened up abuses in criminal activities. The Facebook application that could sort your friends by income is an example of this. The Workers' Party believes that the changes The Stortinget made in paragraphs 8 to 8 of the Equation Act in 2011, are correct and necessary and that today's legislation ensures a reasonable balance between the different considerations. The personal data contained in the tax lists are as public as before, but privacy considerations are much better addressed. In the 2013 state budget, the government proposes 37.9 million. kr for the operation of the Data Protection Authority. This means that since 2005, government parties have increased the Data Protection Framework by 72 pst. In addition, over the same period, supervision has been added to a total of 13,45 million. kr in project funds. It is an expression of the priority we give to privacy and the important job done by the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e277	Both the representative of Tetzschner and the representative of Haugli have done well for the committee to deal with this matter, and as Mr Tetzschner says, there is a great deal of agreement in the committee on this matter. I only want to link some comments to what is involved in the electronic exchange of messages between healthcare professionals. If you are travelling today and you move from your home to another part of the country and suddenly get so sick that you have to enter a hospital quickly, and you are unable to do things for yourself, then the hospital you are admitted to has great difficulty in getting information about your health status. The reason is that there is currently no communication between hospitals about the health situation of people. Only 12 out of 429 municipalities have taken part in an electronic message exchange with healthcare professionals. This means that there is a great risk that a person may get out of hospital properly when the hospital to which he or she is admitted does not get any idea if he or she has had an operation, is allergic or may be using medication that could be dangerous for any other intervention on the patient. The representatives from Rogaland, Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane have annual meetings with Health West. Last week we were informed by representatives from Health Vest that work is now being done to develop guidelines so that one could have the ability to transfer personal information from local authorities and local authorities to other hospitals, so that one could be able to capture the health situation in another hospital in a very fast way – if one is admitted to another hospital. But then it's also very important that privacy is in place, so that personal information cannot get out of control, and that people other than those who need it can get personal information that should not come out to anyone but those who will benefit them. Therefore, the Progress Party is pleased that the Data Protection Authority is doing a brilliant job, and we feel reasonably confident that, in this situation too, the Data Protection Authority will be able to follow up the reorganisation of information between medical agencies and healthcare professionals in a defensive, safe and secure way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e288	When you're a big-time representative, there's a lot of things you quickly find out that you should have spent more time and put yourself in, because they're so important to our social development. This is definitely one of those issues, and I also think that the case-rapporteur, Michael Tetzschner, got along very well. We are talking in many ways about one of the most important infrastructures in our society, namely the communicative infrastructure – how to organise it, how to control it and how to, we should say, monitor it in a good way, so that it works properly. But it's easy to prioritize down and away a matter area, perhaps especially when it's as dynamic as this matter area is, because it's in continuous change. One of the points for us who opposed the introduction of the Data Storage Directive was just that this is such a dynamic situation that it was foolish to freeze itself to one position just when the whole topic is then under debate and development. I agree with the two speakers before me who said that what is now happening in Europe is positive, because in many ways it is progressing in the right direction. Another point of the Data Storage Directive, to which I have reflected, is that what we intended by possibly introducing such a directive was to take the criminals. It reminds me a little bit about what's going on at our airports, where the knife in your bag is taken from you when you pass the security check, but if you buy yourself a shrimp butterbread afterwards, you can get an identical knife in your hand right away to just eat the same butterbread. And it's a little bit the same with the Data Storage Directive too: we can't stop those who are going to be stopped, and then we create a more problematic reality for the vast majority of us who haven't thought to do anything wrong, to say it that way. So there's one of the two comments from the opposition that I think is particularly interesting, and it's the one that goes on this with the dissemination of student and student lists, because this is one example of a problematic reality that it's important to consider. At the same time, I can't dare to remind myself a little bit that at least a few of the same parties are very excited that all the information about the same students and students is going to spread out into cyberspace – which was what Michael Tetzschner used as a concept – in terms of grades. Clearly, the idea that it is problematic to disseminate personal data about students and students does not apply to disseminating information about grades for the same students and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e299	Technological development offers enormous opportunities, but also significant challenges, when it comes to privacy. More and more are being digitized, and large parts of our lives are going on and on portals and in databases around the world. Technology characterizes a great many of our daily tasks. Increasingly more information is stored, and we leave electronic tracks almost no matter what we do and where we go. Some of us even have cell phones that can explain where we are at any time. In addition, information about what we bought, and when we bought it, and if we use bank cards or credit cards, that's the reality. It's recorded when and where we've been through the bombings. Even travel routes to and from work are recorded. Most of this information is available on the Internet. The Internet is a great tool for finding and sharing information, but also an arena where more personal information is involuntaryly open. This information was previously available, including: tax information on all taxable persons in the country – an information that contributed to both harassment and crime, but was also important to ensure parts of the transparency and legitimacy of the tax system. With such a huge, and growing, continuous flow of personal data, there is a great, and growing, need for ever stronger privacy. It is important that we address the challenges such as: an increasingly electronic everyday life brings with it. People need to be informed about their rights. Here is the role of the Data Protection Authority as a knowledge intermediary. Good web pages and other user-friendly services are a "must" to enable us all to know what we can demand of privacy, and how we can organise ourselves so that we can avoid our personal data being stolen or abused. Privacy is under pressure and new technologies allow for increased control, registration and monitoring. New technology always offers new opportunities, but it is policy's role to limit technology when there are conflicts of interest here, against privacy. I am sceptical and critical of the ever more extensive monitoring, registration and control. The more information is stored, the more opportunities it offers for misuse and information leakage. The emergence of the information society requires that we have a clear and principled view of privacy and individual inviolability. What is human worth? What are the rights of individual citizens? How do we relate to an information flow that increasingly challenges the individual's right to privacy? In recent years, privacy has been pushed several times. The Data Storage Directive is one example that can be drawn up, and the changes in the laws supported by large parts of the Right and the entire Workers' Party have been undermined by some of our fundamental data protection principles. We are still faced with similar problems. New issues will emerge, and in many cases there will be good reasons to introduce stricter controls. That's the sum of things that make us gradually and almost inconspicuously slip in the wrong direction. The sum of good intentions can make a go in a direction no one really wants, and to a society where human dignity is violated. Consideration must always be weighed, but if we do not have a conscious relationship with the basic principles here, we will almost continue to drift away from basic privacy. I have noticed that the government has previously invited Stortinget to a complete and collective discussion of privacy issues, and that at the same time it has been notified that there will be a separate notice to the Stortinget about privacy. Of course, it is disappointing that such a message has not come. Such a message is particularly important now that several major cases have weakened privacy in recent years. I know that the Council of State has had a lot to do lately, but I hope that she can nevertheless make sure that such a message will preferably be available by the end of this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e325	Technological developments are fast – very fast. Nordics are eager to use new technologies and new opportunities. We use our smartphones to surf the web, to keep ourselves up to date on social media, to pay travel in public transport or to find the way through map solutions – and much more. In almost everything we do, we leave behind a trail that tells us in detail what we've done, and where we've been during the day. ‘Big data’ is a term used for large amounts of electronic tracks that we leave behind in a day. These are tracks that can be collated and analysed. This challenges the privacy of the individual. The controllers must inform about the personal data for which they process and what this information is to be used for. Besides, we all have to be aware of what information we leave behind, and how this information can be used by others. At the same time, technology opens up great opportunities. We can provide simpler services for citizens, services that can be used anywhere, at any time. It is the government's aim to provide the best possible digital services in the administration. We want to use the opportunities offered by digitisation to protect the privacy of users. Privacy by Design – or built-in privacy – is called it. Digital transparency solutions, electronic reporting of the data subject or the ability to update information itself may be relevant measures. We can provide new digital solutions to personal alternatives such as integrated first choice, for example: by requiring no more information than is strictly necessary. If the individual wishes to provide additional information, he or she must take the initiative. In the 2011 Annual Communication, the Data Protection Authority points to data protection challenges in public information. The publication of tax lists is an example of this. This year, access to the tax registers has been slightly tighter than in previous years. The tax lists are still public. They should be. At the same time, the privacy of taxpayers is better protected because the lists may not be used to the same extent as before for entertainment, sheikhs or crime planning. The press has not been allowed to publish the entire electronic tax list on their websites. Transparency requires MinID login. The new rules show that technology opens up opportunities for better privacy solutions. Data minimisation is good privacy. This means that no more personal data is collected than the purpose requires. Perhaps the aim can also be achieved with anonymous solutions. Electronic ticketing in public transport is a good example. The industry and the authorities have jointly developed a professional standard for anonymous electronic ticketing. Passengers may choose whether to travel anonymously or to identify themselves. In recent years, the rapporteur has been reviewing international legislation. This applies both in the OECD, in the Council of Europe and, not least, in the EU. We are using more and more online services. They can be offered from anywhere in the world, even if users are in Norway. The services require the flow of personal data. As a result, privacy challenges are also becoming more international. A good international framework can be of great help in addressing the challenges. It is also an advantage both for providers and for users if the legislation in the different countries is as uniform as possible. Therefore, it is good that the Data Protection Authority prioritises international work. The government is also involved in international data protection work in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. The examination of data protection consequences shall be a natural part of the processing of all personal data. Through an active approach to privacy issues, we shall be in the forefront and maintain the privacy of our citizens in a good way. I look forward to a good debate on how to safeguard the privacy of our citizens when we debate next year the communication on privacy, as the government will present later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e351	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e354	If I were to add any comments to the statements of the Council of State, I just have to say that there were many positive notes. We look forward to having a good discussion on the promotion of privacy in the light of international developments, as the Council of State has now promised the Stortinget. What made me take the floor was Aksel Hagen's posts, to which I basically sat and nodded enthusiastically. Those who know me know that it might be a small threshold before I get very excited. But then it churned. That's when he said the Right's desire for transparency and knowledge about the school would have special privacy challenges associated with it. It has to be a misunderstanding, because we've never imagined it. In line with what I said about class lists, it would be very remote for us to ask for data that could be traced back to the individual student. We're talking about knowledge that gets aggregated, both above the individual level – that is, the student level – and above the class level. If the school was to contain four students, we'd have to merge it with some nearby schools, so we'd just have privacy considerations. If this is still a matter for the representative Hagen, perhaps he could whisper a few words to his red-green colleague Håkon Haugli. He just argued in his defence for high transparency about the tax lists that it was so important to get system control through individuals. Then I have to say again to Haugli – since I now have speaking time – that it must also be possible here to acquire knowledge about how a tax system works, without going to the individual address, person and family. I'm sure you'll get it, among other things. by looking at the practice of equality between national authorities. That knowledge exists, without the need to provide people's personal data.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e363	Let's keep going with the calm, reflective tone that we've found in the committee so far. With regard to the debate on publishing grades, it's interesting what Michael Tetzschner says, that if school is too small and classes too few, it's an extra challenge. Just this I have met in my own state, Uppland, where there has been a lot of debate about this. There we have had representatives who have argued for a rather square and cool practice, where it has been almost possible to find out to the individual student. I expect Michael Tetzschner to take this back to his partners in Uppland. Then we can meet for a debate on this a little later. It's interesting that we want transparency about tax lists – and that we're very sceptical about character transparency. My way of thinking about it has been the following: With regard to the tax lists, it is important to get information to the voters. It is the voters who need much information about how our tax system works, in order to be able to participate in the political debate about it. In terms of grades, we have a system today where students, teachers, parents, and the school politicians responsible for it have access to that kind of information. It may not be surprising, but I think we red-green have a good position in both cases. We provide information to those who need information, respectively voters, in one case, and, in the other case, students, teachers, parents, school politicians and school managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e375	I would first like to point out to the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold's statement that claiming that the introduction of the data storage directive has undermined some of our fundamental privacy principles and linked them to human dignity is a position and a form of debate I distance myself from. I would like to challenge the representative, Mr Becquerad, to clarify how this directive affects human dignity. But it was Tetzschner's statement that made me draw again. Openness about economic conditions, I believe, is a basis for a liberal democracy. When he uses the term ‘system control’, I think he confuses the value of an open, free debate on actual matters with state control. My examples, taken from the changes in the rules that have been made, are just driven by a healthy public debate on tax matters. I would like to challenge the representative Tetzschner: does he agree with a claim, for example. the best functioning of markets when the information is available to all? Does he agree that economic conditions should be primarily open to all?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1... Yes, it says here that the representative Tetzschner has asked for the floor. Is it for this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e385	Yes, I was challenged.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e390	Yes. But the representative has to ask for the floor to get it. The President does not assess whether the representative feels challenged. If the representative asks for the floor, he will have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e393	I'm in the peaceful corner today, I, but since I got a direct challenge if we weren't for information: especially we who are followers of the market economy, are because the actors can have the most information possible before they make their decisions. But it'll be a little bit like looking at the information about the development of a trade field, how the goods are being requested. You can make an excellent plan – both from the business and from the government, if you are interested in regulatory things about the movement of goods – without knowing the individual buyer or individual consumer or going home, or knowing where he or she lives. It's exactly parallel to what we're talking about: it's quite possible to give a message to the voters about how the tax system works, about how the distribution of income is in the world, or in Norway, which we need to keep an eye on here – at all – have a reasonable debate on informed premises, without assuming that individuals have got their tax conditions aired for the whole world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e398	The representative Haugli has had the word twice before, and thus gets the word to a brief remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e401	The representative Tetzschner draws up a distinction between general and individual conditions. I just want to point out that, for example, openness around leadership pay is about individual relationships, and is a principle I think we'll agree on is the way it should be. It is important for transparency and transparency and for wise decisions to be made that we also have transparency in some individual circumstances. So there's no crystal clear separation, but it's clarifying and good that the Right is also the trailers of openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e406	Then the President cannot see that more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Is that correct? - That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e420	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e427	The state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmann. Both peoples have the same right and the same right to be able to develop their culture and language. Samemen is an indigenous people who have a call for special cultural protection under international law. The merger is therefore also established by the joint law in order to comply with the Constitution § 110a. This gives the whole thing a unique position as a popularly elected body with great freedom. The 2011 Joint Annual Report sets out the work of the Sameting, the tasks for which the Sameting shall manage and the economic and administrative challenges. The communication covers a wide range of areas in which Sametinget works — ranging from work on discrimination and equality, co-operation across national borders, regional policy issues, land and environment policy issues1 through culture, cultural protection and language, to kindergartens, schools and the preservation of traditional knowledge. It is not possible in a brief article to address everything that concerns the Sami communities. So I have to draw something out. It is not that everything that is not mentioned is not considered important. It is the whole Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which is united on the majority comments. I expect the Progress Party itself to take the floor to explain its divergent views on the matter. By way of introduction, I need to commend the whole thing for the job that has been done in recent years to clean up aspects of administrative practices. It concerns both financial management, transparency and transparency. Among other things, the Sametinget has now also put in place a system of postal records online. This contributes to the direct transparency of, and greater transparency of, the activities of the Sameting. It's a pleasure. The consultation mechanism has become a good tool for dialogue between the State and the Sameting. There is no consensus in all matters, but in the majority of cases there is agreement or partial agreement. The institute has now evolved over some time, and seems to work well after the intention. It makes an important contribution to the security of Sami interests. In its annual report, the merger addresses matters relating to consultations with the Ministry of Agriculture. The majority of the Committee has had no need to address this issue in concrete terms, but has pointed out that there is an agreement between the Government and the Conseil on consultations. However, I would add that it will be important for the legitimacy of the consultation mechanism that the parties have confidence in each other. Trust is built over time and through mutual respect for each other. The Sami languages are threatened languages. Therefore, language-based action is one of the main strategies of the government. This is primarily done through actions described in the Sami language action plan. And then it's a pleasure that, according to both Nordic research and the publication Sámi numbers, 5 tells us are positive signs of linguistic development. A clear trend in the 2011–2012 figures is the large increase in the number of Sami students in secondary school. This is positive for the future of Sami languages. It is also positive that the number of students with Sami as first language in primary school remains relatively stable. The figures for Sami languages in the kindergarten are also relatively stable, at least if we take into account the overall decline in the high school population in northern Norway. However, secondary language education is still a problem. Here we see a total decline of 41 pst. from school year 2005-2006 to 2011-2012. That means that it's not an unparalleled positive image of evolution. However, it is allowed to rejoice over the positive trends that can be identified. There is a clear distinction in this Chamber between the Progress Party and the other parties in the view of how the Sami people are to be granted their rights under the Constitution and international conventions. It showed not least the debate we had last autumn, when we debated whether we should cancel our commitments under ILO Convention No. 169 or still be members. Of course, the Progress Party is quite free to promote its policy. However, it is only hidden and not credible when the party's members criticize in their comments the efforts of the last 25 years to save the Sami languages, calling it a failure. Especially little credible when the Progress Party's answer to the challenge is not to do anything. Their answer is to cut all appropriations for Sami purposes. The size has dealt with the notification of the joint venture on several occasions more than one year after its release from the joint venture. It has therefore been an objective of the Committee to speed this up. We have succeeded this time, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e453	The notification of the joint venture is an annual phenomenon for the Storting and is equally interesting every time. The Progress Party is concerned with Sami culture and Sami languages. We are committed to preserving a culture and a language that is part of the Norwegian cultural heritage and Norwegian history. We want – in line with the majority in this Chamber – to have a Sami minority in Norway, to have a Sami language, and to maintain the culture they stand for in a good way. The merger was established as a result of a bad conscience for the injustice suffered by the Sami minority over several years. The merger was also created as a result of the turmoil caused by the conflicts surrounding the Alta River. But it's no better to correct mistakes by granting some special rights based on cultural background or ethnicity. It is a fact that the whole thing has been given some advantages because of ethnicity. You have to be the same – it has to be documented – in order to have the right to vote at all in the merger elections and to be elective. So that means that ethnicity is the background for whether you get into the whole thing or not. Your ethnicity says if you can join in and decide what's going on in the Sami administration, at the expense of a lot of other people, who don't have these rights. The applicant's rapporteur was in a field in the message that the Progress Party has also been involved in, and it is in the Sami language and its implementation. In the study carried out by Nordlandsforschung on the use of the Sami language, we see that there is not – as was also the case-rapporteur – a positive picture drawn. When it turns out that the use of language as a parent language, but also as a first language and second language in school, goes down, there is a sign that it is not working as it should. The progress party has long called for, among others. statistics on minority languages in Norway and, in particular, Sami. Our neighbouring country Finland has such statistics and uses them consistently to plan actions, including: directed towards those who speak Sami. Norway has been criticized several times — from the minority language pact in Europe to the UN Committee on Racial Discrimination — for not having such statistics. Then it might be time for us to get such statistics, that we use the statistics to get the information we need in order to plan for the future, so that the Sami languages can be maintained, further developed and become permanent languages in Norway. We see that the number of people who use Sami as a first and second language in primary school has fallen, and we know that some measures have been taken over the years to ensure that the Sami language is preserved. When you've been using one medicine that doesn't work for years, I'm actually going to try a new medicine. Then I would have asked the government to see if there are any other things we can do to ensure that Sami languages can be handled in a good way so that we can still have Sami languages in Norway, and that they do not die out with the generation that is now. The Progress Party is committed to preserving Sami language and culture, but we are concerned that this should not be done by granting specific rights because of ethnicity and cultural background. Norway is made up of one people, and it's the North. Then we have some minorities in Norway that we absolutely have to take care of in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e472	On the right, what the Storting has adopted — and will relate to — is that in Norway, we have two people. We have an indigenous people, who are the Sami, and that is why we also have the Sameton Annual Report for treatment. The merger is an independent body. That's a very clear point of view. Redefining a people from being a native to becoming a national minority is at least not something that can be done over the table and in a big debate without a more thorough assessment of it. I would say that the Right joins in the common notes that all parties, except the Advance Party, stand together. The merger activity in 2011 shows that the use of lulesamic and southern Sami has increased among young people, according to the survey conducted by Nordic research. The use of the most vulnerable languages is positive. You might ask, Do we need to take care of such small language groups? I believe that it is absolutely a wealth for a small country like Norway to have more minority languages, or indigenous languages, that help to strengthen the diversity of our long and beautiful country. Then it focuses on the consultation system, and that it works well. Yes, initially it seems that this has now begun to find its form, but the Sameting has thus critical comments on the consultations between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sameting in connection with legislation there. I have also noticed that the Sametinge wants greater coordination of consultations between several departments, i.e. several departments can meet together, and the Sametinget. That's something I think every government should look at in terms of how to meet the Sameting in the context of consultations. The NRK Same Radio reports that there is a debate going on in the Sametinget right now. A proposal has been submitted to remove the management area of Sami languages. That debate is now under way in the Sameting. I think it's an interesting debate because it raises a number of questions. One of the reasons is that more and more people with a Sami background move to cities and do not live in the Sami language management area. At the same time, it raises the question: Can any municipality in Norway be expected to be able to respond to enquiries in Sami? There it is quite a long way to go, but I find it exciting that the Sameting is bringing up this debate, and I am looking forward to the Stortinget being invited to participate in that debate gradually. The language debate will continue in the years to come, and it will probably also be the question of whether a group is a minority or an indigenous, but the Right is, therefore, related to what the Storing has decided, namely that a group is an indigenous.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e485	I have previously, a little while ago, from this pulpit quoted our now-dead vistas, textist – let's say: ricksyronian – Odd Børetzen about the relationship with non-smokers. He has also given us a contribution in the same debate, where he says in one of his songs that if together is not satisfied with how they feel in this country, they can go back where they come from. That statement reminds me a little bit of what the Progress Party here is saying from the pulpit, and what they have written in their special remarks. I say like Eirik Sivertsen, and that's what I thought was completely accepted – I hope that also the Right is fully committed to it, the Right here argues that it's because there's a majority here in the Chamber that you stand first and foremost on this line – that the Norwegian state is formed in the territory of two peoples, the Sami and the Norwegian. We're not talking about one country and one people, and then there's some minorities in here. I had hoped that at some point the Progress Party would also be able to reach that recognition. It is somewhat saddened by the lack of respect for Sami culture and peculiarity and the status of the party. But that's not surprising, because in all those things where the Progress Party has an opportunity to fight against diversity, yes, they fight against diversity – so in this case as well. And not on a careful line -- it's used terms that take a great distance from that approach that we're the other -- the great majority, fortunately -- have to do with this whole thing. It's very difficult – or it's not difficult, it's impossible – to understand that the Progress Party can at the same time be persuasive when one says that one is dedicated to preserving what they call minority – that they are happy in the Sami language, the Sami culture – and they criticise the instruments that have been used so far. It's interesting to take an action debate. Just the combined seas are very good at engaging in the debate on instruments, both a critical debate and the development of new instruments. The annual report shows that debate in a good way. When the Progress Party year in and year out says – and hopes to be trusted – that they are committed to preserving, while at the same time criticising existing use of instruments, it is time for the Party to come up with its own instruments, some of its own instruments. I have not yet seen that the Progress Party has done so, in addition to the fact that there should be no so-called special treatment for co-workers. Where the Progress Party disagrees with the Sameting and everything that it does, I – like many others – get very impressed with the breadth of the engagement. I agree that it is a bit random what one needs to draw out in such an article from the Great Britain pulpit. Among other things, I have Note what is now happening in the field of gender equality and anti-discrimination – a very important and good job is in progress. It is very nice to see that one is so good at just anti-discrimination, when one thinks that the seas have been subjected to discrimination, and are still subject to discrimination, from the Norwegian people. It's good we have the Sametinget, and we're going to celebrate the Sametinget and not just think it's nice that they're there as ornaments, we have to at the same time accept that they exercise their power as compounds. There we have had demanding debates, and we will have them in the future, for example. on resources and use of resources. So a last comment to Trond Helleland about the administration area in relation to where Samer lives. I also think that is a very interesting debate – that on the one hand we say that it is very important that the Sami language survives, that the Sami culture survives, and then most of the group lives somewhere different from where we, based on looking at the map, threatens to live together. This is an important debate, and we, who are not the same, are particularly dependent on the fact that the Sameting Sea is offensive and good in that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e507	The state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples — Northern and Sami — and both groups have the same right to develop their culture and language. The Centre Party will ensure the possibility for the Norwegian indigenous population to develop cultural and materially on its own premises, in line with international agreements and conventions. The status of indigenous peoples and the possibility of exercising the Sami culture are a Community responsibility. The Sami culture must be preserved and disseminated to the rest of the population in order to increase knowledge of the indigenous population of Norway, and Sami cultural skills must be compulsory both in primary and secondary schools. Knowledge of the Sami culture will also be important in the fight against bullying. Unfortunately, in recent times we have seen terrible examples of Sami youths being harassed because of ethnicity, which we, of course, take a great distance from. Many suggest that this is widespread, and that it is important to prevent awareness-raising work. The language is the bearer of all cultures. I am particularly concerned about the challenges of preserving Southern Sami and Lulesamian as living languages, as both of these are languages that are very few in everyday use. They're kind of a minority in the minority. Therefore, it is gratifying that Nordic research has conducted a language survey showing that the development of southern Sami and lulesamic is now positive. More young people understand and speak these languages than was the case in the parental regeneration. On the other hand, it is worrying in terms of Sami as a language of use that many people choose to use Norwegian in everyday speech, even in conversation with other Sami speakers. In order to preserve the Sami languages, the Centre Party believes it is important that the bilinguality grant to municipalities and county municipalities be strengthened, and it is gratifying that Røyrvik now has the status of bilingual municipality. We need to ensure that Sami students have good and adequate teaching materials, and we need to ensure that there is a good and varied range of children’s and youth literature also available in Sami. The Ministry of Knowledge has initiated a process aimed at ensuring the training of Sami kindergarten teachers. Early efforts are important to make young people happy to use the Sami language as much as possible. The Government has proposed an annual additional allocation for Sami languages and cultural development of 10 million. kr in the following years. The message shows that reindeer farming has always been perceived and accepted as a very special Sami industry. Even though far from working in the reindeer industry, I think it's mainly reindeer, most of them relate to Sami culture. The sewerage industry is built on two distinct bases — a value for industrial production and a co-political cultural value. Norway aims to increase food production by 20 pst. The next 20 years. The puree is mainly of low yield and therefore makes use of a herb that other grazing animals are not created to exploit. It is important that we ensure a sustainable reindeer industry by adapting the reindeer, reducing losses and increasing production. It is essential to reduce the purity in those areas where there is too much purity. It is important to ensure the welfare of animals, and it is important to prevent destruction. Here the industry itself has a great responsibility to act quickly. When the slaughter weight of calves in some areas of Finnmark is less than half of the average slaughter weight in South Norway, it is evident that something needs to be done with the clean figure. Driving on the reindeer is another major problem for the industry. The Railway Agency’s action plan against animal driving by train focuses on measures against the driving of elk, reindeer, sheep and bovine animals and has an average allocation of 10 million. kr in the next six years. Several sections of the Nordlandsbahn have had major problems with driving on clean and are therefore among the priority routes for initiating measures. Good cooperation between actors is essential and it is important that all parties contribute to the effectiveness of these actions. The biggest challenge facing the industry is loss due to predators. The predatory situation is perceived as difficult in the reindeer industry. The agreement on predatory game adopted in the spring of 2011 aims to speed up and increase the efficiency of the pick-up of pests in grazing areas. The centre party will be the guarantor of follow-up to the confiscation agreement underpinning the management. Precautionary grazing shall not include predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e528	The merger is and shall be the government's leading premiscuous supplier on Sami issues. For 20 years, the Sametinge has played a central role, both in the Sami environment and in the general population. It is essential that the forms of cooperation and dialogue between the Federation and the Government function well. Both we politicians and other premise suppliers and society have a responsibility to preserve and further develop Sami culture. We must build up under the diversity of the Sami society and will participate and secure the right to a language, culture and society of our own. The specific nature of the joint must be ensured by passing on their way of life, culture and values to new generations. In order to develop a good policy in this area, there is a need for an understanding of the challenges that exist. At the same time, it is important to point to positive features, such as Sami cultural life, Sami food and Sami travel life. All of this helps to strengthen identity and self-esteem. Common policies require follow-up at all levels of government. State policy premises the development of Sami societies and Sami in the big society. County and municipal policies determine a great deal of how the concrete measures reach most people. In Sámi core areas, full bilingualism is assumed in public institutions. However, school life has a challenge in teaching in and in Sami, and the number of Sami speakers has dropped considerably in recent years. Sami language and cultural centres are also struggling with financial support in several municipalities. Language is a very important part of culture. It is therefore important that the Sami language be preserved and continued. One of the main challenges facing Sami children today is in school. The training situation is worrying, with a lack of teaching materials in their own language, a lack of teachers to learn away, and perhaps also vice-chancellors who do not provide room for a flexible schedule. We see that Sami children do not get what they have the right to, that is, a good Sami language training. There needs to be a conscious effort to train more Sami teachers and pre-school teachers, and the pace of developing and updating learning materials in Sami needs to be set up. The school must contribute more to raising Norwegian children’s awareness of Sami culture and language. I think that's important too. Finally, I would like to address the perhaps most serious challenge to the Sami population, which is what the representative Heidi Greni was also involved in in his speech; the discrimination and harassment that many common people face, in many cases daily. 3.5 pst. by the Norwegian majority of the population feel discriminated against, research shows that the total number of Sami-speaking Sami is 35 pst. So Samer experiences ten times more discrimination than ethnic Northmen, and it is outside the defined Sami language areas that together experience this most. Here, half of the group experience discrimination and state that they have been bullied twice as often as the majority of Norwegians in the last year. This was exemplified at the latest a little over a month ago by reports of how a young Sami girl was verbalized and physically attacked and harassed by a boy boy at a patio in Trondheim. They heated, pushed, pushed and went as far as to light her jacket. This was one of many examples of Samer being subjected to discrimination and harassment because of the ignorance, disrespect and bad attitudes of others. This is what we must live to see. We have a responsibility not only to continue the traditions, language and culture, but also to create greater understanding and respect for them. We need to ensure that the way of life, culture and values of all together are passed on in respect also by new generations, for Norway serves to have a diverse and rich society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e543	Security, diversity and equivalency are some of the pillars of our society. Unfortunately, this is the case, among other things. The representatives Bekkewold and Greni have described that many co-workers experience being met with negative prejudices and stereotypes. In the media, among other things, we have seen several examples of how individuals have been exposed to hoarseness and personal attacks because they are Sami. Common policies must aim to ensure that those who grow up today have a real opportunity to use their culture and language without fear of discrimination. Norwegian common policies are based on principles of international law and fundamental moral obligations. A targeted, co-political effort over several major periods and with changing governments has had a major impact on the individual's experience of his or her own Sami identity. The development of rights, the building of institutions and the formalisation of dialogue between authorities and co-operatives have been central to the common policies up to now. Laws, regulations and mechanisms are in place to strengthen Sami languages and culture, business and society. The attitude of the Municipal and Administrative Committee shows that there is still a broad political consensus on common policies. The institutional and legal frameworks that have already been established are an important starting point for the government's further co-operation policy. In future policy-making, there will be a need to look at how common policy objectives and established rights are reflected in our public welfare systems and public services. The municipalities are the main welfare producers, and the government is concerned that Sami users also receive a welfare offer where linguistic and cultural needs are met. Sami languages are the bearer of Sami culture. The government is working on the objective that Sami languages should be alive. Languages shall be visible and used in all areas of society. An important instrument for achieving the objectives of living Sami languages is the language code of the Law. In the administrative area of Sami languages, which now consists of ten municipalities, Sami and Norwegian are assimilated languages. South Sami is classified as a seriously threatened language in the UNESCO Red List of Threatened Languages and a number of measures are needed to preserve and develop the language. The Government decided on 12 October this year to integrate the municipality of Røyrvik into the Northern Trøndelag in the Sami language management area from 1 January 2013. Røyrvik thus becomes the second southern municipality in the administrative area. I think we're always going to dry to see if we have the right ways to organize our language work. It is therefore positive that the Sameting is also debating whether the administrative areas meet the objectives of the Sameting. But I would warn you not to think that producing a statistic, as you have in Finland, where you can specify in the population register which language you use, will improve the language situation in the Sami regions. As part of the Cultural Promise, the government has had a desire to strengthen Sami language and culture. For this reason, the Government's proposal for a State budget proposes to increase the allocation to Sami culture and language measures by 10 million. kr per year over a five-year period. The funds shall be managed by the Sameting. Good voting participation in the merger elections is important. High turnout is essential for the legitimacy of the Alliance as a democratic and representative body. We need more knowledge about how the electoral system works and how election behaviour changes due to changes in the electoral system. The Government has therefore proposed, in its draft State budget, to set aside funds for research at the Joint Committee in 2013. In a well-functioning democracy, the interests of the minority must also be heard and safeguarded. That way, we'll be able to build a society based on equivalency and respect. Fortunately, in Norway today there is a large political majority who believe that we should have a merger and that this complements democracy in Norway. An active and targeted common policy in interaction and dialogue with the Sameting is essential for the preservation and development of Sami languages and Sami culture. Only through such targeted work will we be able to build down negative stereotypes and prejudices against Sami culture. My hope is that in this way we will make it easier for the same to live out their Sami identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e566	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e570	The Norwegian merger was opened in 1989. It therefore has a relatively short history like the democratic arena, compared to the Stortinget. I would nevertheless say that a lot has happened in Norwegian common policies during these years. An annual report gives us the opportunity to stop and reflect a little on the overall political issues associated with this field. For any democratic institution, participation in elections is essential for legitimacy, and also for the Sameeting. Same people live widely – in many municipalities, fewer than 30 are included in the electorate. That means they only have the opportunity to vote in advance. These voices are then sent in and counted with several, to ensure free and anonymous elections. This, in turn, has led to a decline in polling attendance in constituencies with fewer than 30 crew members. Being able to vote on the election date itself seems to have a significant effect on the termination of the merger selection. The merger election has also not been the subject of systematic electoral research, as Norwegian elections have been. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church has earmarked funds for what the Council of State said, and will continue to have a dialogue with the Sameting to discuss future research in this field. In order to strengthen Sami culture and identity, strengthening and preserving the Sami languages are very important. Language is a cultural bearer and an important part of the uniqueness of any culture. The government has taken responsibility for ensuring the development of the Sami languages, and the overall objective is to develop Northern Sami, Lulesamian and Southern Sami as well as to be living languages in the future. In order to be a living language, the language must be used and transmitted between generations. This is a task both at individual level for each language user and at authority level, by ensuring that the language becomes visible in the public space. Signage in both Sami and Norwegian at the University Hospital Nord-Norway, in municipal buildings and in state buildings is an example of such an appearance. Many Sami do not have Sami as their mother tongue, without threatening the Sami identity. There has also been great depopulation and population decline in Sami areas. One study in 2011 showed that four out of ten people have left Sami districts and become urban citizens. The new housing pattern challenges our traditional thinking patterns around where the same people live, what they do, and how they live. It is as important that there are Sami kindergartens in Oslo as it is in Sami core areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e587	The fact that the Storting has decided that we have two people in Norway, on the other hand, does not mean that it is right. There are several well-known lawyers of a certain size who have asked questions about the truth that Samer is a native, but enough about it. I get a little thought when there are representatives on this pulpit and almost claim that other representatives lie – or at least go very far in claiming something like that. It's also a little worrying that someone stands and refers to referees and assigns parties opinions and attitudes that they absolutely don't have. The fact that the representative Hagen disagrees with the Progress Party is one thing – it's allowed the representative Hagen to be – but to stand here and make such claims, make such ballparks, as Hagen does, shows that he has a low-level argument, in my opinion. It's okay to discuss, it's okay to disagree, but attaching parties to the attitude that Hagen attaches to us really worries me – when it's allowed from this pulpit to do so. The Progress Party is concerned with Sami language and Sami culture. Saying something else is false. We have not cut everything for Sami purposes, we keep a good part of the money to be spent on, among other things. training and cultural preservation. So the claim from the representative Hagen is totally wrong, and I want to take a strong distance from such attitudes. In the case of statistics, the State Council is in doubt that statistics will improve language development. Well, such an overview of language users and the planning of interventions actually works in other countries, but to a large extent: it doesn't have to work in Norway, we're a little special. Finland uses these statistics to fulfil its obligations. They use these statistics to make good plans so that they can provide good training in Sami languages so that Sami languages can develop. Therefore, I believe that Norway too can do the same by knowing how many people speak — and where they speak — the Sami languages. So for the special treatment, which I think Sametinget has got. The question is whether this special treatment has worked. So another question, is the Sameeting completely uncontroversial?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e602	The President will point out that an expression such as 'ballespark' does not necessarily increase the quality of the debate, so I hope we can refrain from such expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e605	I think I agree with the President in his assessment of whether any expressions contribute to the quality of the debate. I asked for the floor in the light of the views of the last speaker, among others. – the first – the whole thing, whether or not the whole thing is disputed. No, the whole thing isn't disputed; it's the Progress Party that's trying to make it a contentious case. It is true that a broad majority in this room, unlike some of the experts referred to earlier, believe that the nation of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, that we have two people here. That is why we have adopted a constitutional provision to ensure that both peoples have the opportunity to develop their language, culture and society. No, this is not disputed; this is something the Progress Party is trying to do to something that is controversial. Secondly, the common policy of the Progress Party. Now we've heard the Progress Party show that they want to take care of the Sami language and the Sami culture, and no, they don't cut everything, that's something that's left. But the Progress Party has not responded to the challenge. If it is true that they believe that the last 25 years have not produced those results – despite the fact that we can today point to a cautious progress in some areas, especially after we implemented the Sámi Action Plan – what is the response of the Progress Party? The answer of the Progress Party, as I hear it, is just that no, we only have one people in Norway, we're not going to do any special thing to take care of the Sami language, the Sami culture and the Sami industries that carry the culture forward. So we have a lot of statistics, we know something about language training, about who wants language training. But it's not that long since we had a debate about bureaucracy and the growth of the public bureaucracy, when the right parties, including the Progress Party, were very concerned about keeping it down. But on the first occasion, at the first crossroads, one jumps forward, asks for more investigations, more statistics and thus more reporting and more control. This policy does not go hand in hand; it is not consistent over time. It might have been tempting to suggest that here the most pleasant, populist position was taken on a case-by-case basis, but it is certainly the case that the Progress Party has a different view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e618	My installation could really only be a tribute to Eirik Sivertsen for his excellent contributions to get Morten Ørsal Johansen to meet. Yet I have a few points. First of all, about Odd Børretzen. Odd Børretzen says in an excellent way exactly what the great majority of people in this room say in an excellent way, that we have two people in our country. The party of progress disagrees that we have it. As you can see, there is no original comparison – or coupling – I do between Odd Børetzen's ironic considerations and the position of the Progress Party in this matter. So the Progress Party should only be proud that they have been given their position in this a little indirect way. So I fully agree with Eirik Sivertsen that yes, let's say that it's too bad what we're doing, that the instruments are too bad. First of all, we shouldn't use instruments, and when we first use them, they're too bad. Then the Progress Party should be faced with two choices: either put forward a joint political action plan – it would have been very exciting to get – or then I think the Advance Party should only dampen its criticism and go a little calmer or quieter in the doors and not say with a rush and bram in post after posts that they are very concerned with Sami culture and very concerned with Sami language. I was on the KUF Committee for the first three – or two and a half years of this period. I have some selective memory, but I think the Progress Party went against all the appropriations in all the posts relating to language and education in that committee. So I'll be very happy if I can prove it wrong later today – that after all, there were a few small crowns that the Progress Party might also have kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e627	Representatives are asked to refer to each other as a representative and to go through the President. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e643	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e652	In the 2012 government budget, a loan framework was adopted for the Husbank of 15 billion. kr. Due to the increased use of the Husbank loan arrangements, the government has proposed an extension of the loan framework to 20 billion. kr. That is the same amount as the government proposes in the 2013 State Budget. In examining this year’s government budget, the government monitored the demand in the Husbank and returned to Stortinget with an assessment of the need for increased loan frameworks. We're very pleased that the government is doing just this. The proposition refers to the fact that the House Bank provides basic loans for the repair, construction and purchase of housing, start-up loans to young people and disadvantaged people and loans to kindergartens. Basic loans shall contribute to the promotion of living qualities such as universal design and energy saving in new and existing dwellings. By 31 August it was given approx. 7 B.C.E. kr in the amount of the basic loan. The high demand for mortgages includes, among other things: coherence with high and increasing activity in the construction sector in 2012. There's a reason to enjoy. Figures for the third quarter of 2012 show that a start-up permit was granted for the construction of a total of 8,107 dwellings. It's almost 38 pst. more dwellings than in the third quarter of last year. The most important thing we do in housing policy is to facilitate the construction of more dwellings. The bulk of the framework increase will therefore be used to meet the high demand for mortgages. Starting loans are given to help those who are struggling to establish themselves in owner-occupied dwellings. By 31 August it was given approx. 5.7 B.C.E. kr in initial loans. The loans to kindergartens were granted for the construction of new, privately owned kindergartens, and by 31 August it was given approx. 0.8 B.C.E. kr in kindergarten loans. Whether that is something we should have learned from the international financial crisis is the importance of supervision of financial institutions and the importance of stable financial markets. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have few comments on this matter, but criticises the Financial Supervisory Board in several sections. The Norwegian economy is going well. We have low interest rates, low unemployment and government finances. The level of debt among Norwegian households is high and growing. We are concerned, and there is something that the OECD has pointed out in its assessments of the Norwegian economy. The task of financial supervision is to ensure stable financial markets. When they make demands on the banks, they do their job. The opposition points out in its comments, inter alia: until ‘Rights have dismissed this sharpening’. It is difficult to understand that parties with government ambitions will review the professional judgements of the Financial Supervisory Authority. What is the opposition's knowledge of the stability of Norwegian financial institutions, which the Financial Supervisory Authority does not know? It should be considered that the ‘liabilities at the time of application’ should be decisive. Does this mean that the parties believe it should be entirely up to the banks to grant loans without a claim for equity? I have so far understood the opposition so that they are not opposed to an equity claim, but they believe the limit should go at 10 and not 15 pst. Why should the limit go right there? With the logic they apply, banks should not be free to deviate from claims for 10 or 15 pst. ? Keeping order in the economy is a primary objective of the government and of the Workers' Party. In housing policy, there are no easy solutions. If more people get a place to live, they have to build more. When dealing with the next case, we are given the opportunity to discuss housing policy more generally. The government's goal is for everyone to live well and safely. The house bank is the state's main tool in housing policy. Extending the lending framework – as we do today – is one of several contributions to increased construction activity and improved quality of living in Norway. I am pleased that the committee has unanimously joined the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e683	I want to start by saying that the Right supports the setting in its substance. That is to say, we're expanding the Husbank's loan framework to 20 billion. kr. But what we have allowed ourselves to point out is the problem that the previous speaker, the representative Haugli, was facing. First of all, it is our concern that the tightening up that the Financial Supervisory Authority did before New Year 2011/2012 destroyed the start-up plans of many young families. With a blow you increased the requirement of equity by 50 pst. – from 10 to 15 percentage points. It may have the effect that people who have an excellent economy, who have started a new job after education, but who do not have a history of savings and who do not have ‘parents in their pocket’ – to put it that way – who give them backing, will get no. And we've been told that a couple of academics, both of whom have got solid jobs, but who have too low equity, are denied this. That is when we say that a credit rating must be made, on a banking basis, that is responsible for the risk to borrowers of borrowing – the risk of interest rising. And then the bank, on its own, has to assess the indebtedness of those who are applying for a loan. The strange thing is, because you're hiding behind professional reasons, that this has to have a price-absorbing effect. The matter itself now includes adding 33 pst to the loan frame of the House Bank. more – that is, 5 billion. kr – it is not problematic whether it may have an impact on the pressure trends in the construction market and the housing market. But it's these first-time starters, who already have the least funds, and who would therefore have asked for the cheapest and most reasonable housing, which is supposed to be the victims of such a tightening up. We can reassure the representative Haugli that we are also concerned that we have solid banks. However, the bank’s lending practices in the case of unsecured consumer loans may need to be looked at, because they are much worse in a situation where stress tests are being carried out or, even worse, fiscal storms. Then there is also this paradoxical effect: after pressing people who could pay the housing through financing from normal banks, they are referred to loan schemes that are actually reserved for the disadvantaged on the housing market. The risk of this is that those for whom the scheme was actually designed will be at the back of that line. In addition, the initial loans will often have equity down to 0 p.p., while the municipalities also have an intermediary risk and take the credit risk further on behalf of the Husbank. So there's a lot of paradoxes, there's reason to dwell on, in this case. And again, we see that the government has no overall grip on housing policy. It's fragmentary. We vote in favour of this case because it resolves some of the other problems that this government has created – or has seen to it that the Financial Supervisory Authority has created. Then I must also say that it is not particularly impressive by a radical party that the Workers' Party once was, to say that the Financial Supervisory Authority has now become their main driving force in housing policy. I think that is a rather defensive attitude – there are also other issues that need to be weighed. So ask the representative Haugli – since we're granted a certain credit for wanting equity – why we've stayed standing at 10 pst. and not any other number. The answer to that is that 10 pst. was the starting point, that's what the market had set itself on, that's what the searchers had arranged for. So the government’s ‘forwarding’ of the Financial Supervisory Authority, if they have found this on their own, actually shows something about the technocracy’s victory by breaking the plans for the future of young people who had intended to establish themselves in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e700	The increased loan framework for the Husbank is an important contribution to increased housing construction in Norway. An increased framework allows Husbank to offer commitments for loans to several housing units with a universal design and energy saving. The need for starting loans to municipalities will also be addressed with this increased framework. The increase is due to high demand for loans from the Husbank in 2009 and up to today. The demand for basic loans has been high above all. Basic loans in Husbanken impose more stringent universal design and energy saving requirements than those resulting from the Law on Planning and Building. By the end of the third quarter, the Husbank had committed a basic loan for the construction of well over 3000 dwellings. The increase in the number of applications was almost 40 pst at the end of September. compared to last year. Start-up loans are an important tool for helping young people in the start-up phase, and particularly disadvantaged, into owner-occupied housing. Local government lending to households in the form of start-up loans increases compared to last year and compared to previous years. The House Bank itself states that there is a particularly large increase in the activity of the municipalities participating in a mutually committed cooperation with the House Bank. These are municipalities that have major housing social challenges. By the end of the third quarter, the House Bank had lent 6.3 billion. kr to municipalities in start-up loans. In its quarterly report, the house bank discloses that 57 p.m. of the initial loans went to the initial starters, and that 54 pst. of those who receive start-up loans, aged 35 or less. It is mainly households that have previously rented a private dwelling, which have applied for and obtained a start-up loan. Loans in the House Bank are important both for the districts and for the cities. The center party wants an active house bank that can continue to do a good job all over the country, and we want increased housing. To date, there is obviously also a need for many measures, which we are going to discuss in the next case here today, and which we will have the opportunity to have a broad and comprehensive debate on when dealing with the housing message for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e715	I have to be relatively short. We agree with the representative, Tetzschner, in his remarks on the problems of young people who do not have the necessary means to get a living. But we're going to let it wait until the next case, it's a more appropriate time to take it, as this case only applies to increasing the frames of the House Bank. But I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to boast of the Right, which now seems to have changed my view of what was up in a previous case, which was a proposal from some progress party representatives for better organisation of first-time start-ups in the housing market, where we had, among other things. the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Financial Supervisory Board’s proposals on equity requirements become advisory and not binding on banks.’ Now it looks like, according to the comments in this case, that Right now has changed view and has the same view of this as the Progress Party. We are very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e729	In many areas of the country there is a high demand for housing. The government wants to contribute to an increase in housing construction, and I'm especially pleased that the Municipal and Administrative Committee has joined the proposal to increase the mortgage to the House Bank by 5 billion. kr. That means that the House Bank's loan framework would be 20 billion. kr in 2012. The house bank provides basic loans for the construction of new or refurbishment of existing dwellings, loans for kindergartens and start-up loans to young people and disadvantaged people on the housing market. The large demand shows the importance of the Husbank’s role in financing high-quality housing in Norway as a whole. An adequate loan framework allows the House Bank to provide more loans so that the construction industry can build more new buildings with good quality. Loans from the House Bank are the most important tools we have to ensure a good housing distribution throughout the country, promote qualities such as environment and universal design, and help disadvantaged people enter the housing market. Just because of the high demand for loans from the House Bank, there is a need for a 20-billion-dollar loan framework. kr in 2012. The application entry rate has been high in 2012. There are applications waiting for about the whole scope. We also want to maintain the level of activity from 2012 to 2013, so we have made suggestions about a 20 billion loan framework. kr also in the 2013 state budget. The high demand for the base loan has, among other things, related to a large activity in the construction sector in 2012. He's for the third quarter of 10 pst. above the same period in 2011. That's good, and that's important. Therefore, the majority of the frame rate will also be used to cover the large demand for a base loan. I think the House Bank is doing an important job both in the big cities, where the pressure problems are greatest, and in the districts and in the country otherwise. It is the house bank's strength that they are present throughout the country, and it is particularly important that the mortgage on the house bank is well cared for by the state. I would also like to send a housing message to Stortinget in spring 2013. Then, among other things, We must, of course, also discuss many other aspects of housing policy. But just in this case, I owe the mortgage to the House Bank, and I'm – as I said – very much satisfied with the vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e746	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e749	The representative Tetzschner used his entire contribution to the Financial Supervisory Authority’s equity requirements. Neither today nor when we last discussed housing policy in connection with the proposals of the Progress Party on measures for initial start-ups, have the right has promoted such a proposal. The representative Starheim gives Right compliments for having turned the case around, and then it's natural to ask, Is it right that the Right has turned around? And in that case, when will a proposal to overrun the Financial Supervisory Authority be promoted here in Stortinget, or is this just what you say from the pulpit and are not prepared to follow up in practice? Tetzschner also addresses an attack on the Workers' Party in order to have a housing policy that consists only of defending the Financial Supervisory Authority's equity requirements. It falls on its own unfairness, we take the challenge in the housing market very seriously. We'll get back to that in the next case, and that of course also applies to the first time starters. But the release of criticism and the lack of control over financial institutions appears to be the only answer from the Right. That's not the way we should go.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e758	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e772	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose giving rise to three lines of reply following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e781	Four of the representatives of the Right have proposed measures for increased housing. The proposers are committed to facilitating people to live in a place, to building enough homes, and to afford most people to live in the dwellings that are being built. That's what I think we all agree on. Before I go into the individual proposals, I would like to say three things about housing in Norway. First, we're in a period of historically high population growth. In March we stayed five million in this country. This is particularly marked in and around the largest cities. It is fundamentally positive that people have children, that the Norwegian economy is going so well, that household income is rising, and that we are attracting labour from abroad, but it also leads to an increased need for new homes. The forecasting centre calculates that the annual housing demand in Norway is approximately 38 000 new dwellings per year. Secondly, construction activity is on its way up. This year we expect it to be completed approx. 30000 new dwellings. Since the mid-1980s, we have only had the same number of new dwellings for two single years, in 1988 and 2007. Nevertheless, the supply does not match the demand. Evolution goes in the right direction, but it has to be built more. Thirdly, in the period 2001–05, it was built on average for 22 000 dwellings per year. This then increased to 31 000 in 2008. In 2009, it fell again to 21,763. The slowdown came as a consequence of the financial crisis. And yet, even in the 2009 crisis, more dwellings were completed than in 2003. So it's not like the housing structure has slowed down under this government, on the contrary. There are, on average, much more dwellings built in the year than in the previous ageing period, despite the financial crisis. Lack of political will in some municipalities, productivity and capacity challenges in the construction industry, lack of finished land for housing purposes and insufficient overall land and transport planning are among the reasons why it is not built even more. The Labour Party takes the challenges in the housing market seriously. We are among others concerned about people's ability to settle in owner-occupied dwellings. However, there is no quick fix. We are concerned that action needs to be seen in the context. Not all of the original proposals have been maintained. I only want to comment on those who have to vote for it later today. The first three proposals concern the State's right of objection. As long as the municipalities are responsible for finalising regulatory plans, there is a need for an institution of opposition to ensure national and regional considerations. If two neighbouring municipalities were to decide without object where the roads and the railways were going, we would most likely have many roads and railways that were not very well connected. That being said, we take seriously the dissatisfaction with the right of objection. We believe that the solution lies in better coordination at state level. Objection access is an important safety valve, but municipalities must meet a more coordinated country. As regards proposal No: 4, agrees on the need for measures that may shorten the planning period for large-scale transport projects. The Minister for Transport has launched a package of measures: deadlines, coordination at an early stage and parallel planning processes. This is a good initiative. Finally, I would like to comment on the Right's proposal to lift the ban on low-income housing laws. The rules that it can be a maximum of 75 pst. public debt following the formation of a new law on housing and the prohibition of so-called buying-in of speculation were adopted on 14 June last year. It ensures a secure framework for the purchase of housing and prevents people in the worst cases from being blamed and their carers from being able to serve. There was broad consensus from key actors on the need for legislative change, including NBBL, and the decision was taken by a broad majority, all parties except the Right and the Left. Although there is disagreement about much of what is proposed, I would like to thank the proposers for bringing the debate on housing policy into the main hall. The recommendation of the Committee clarifies the political differences in housing policy. I expect the debate here today to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e811	Then the next speaker is the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter, even though he signed up for the representative of Tetzschner. Then it's Michael Tetzschner. It could be a good idea to draw early, so we get a list that reflects the size of the games, in the right order.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e816	Yes, it is quite right that the Progress Party is still larger than the Right, and I hope that we will be for a long time. I think it is a good thing that one should present this proposal. This is an important thing, because low housing construction and rising housing prices are themes that have been debated in Stortinget many times – including in other venues – without anything happening. We have a very strong population increase in the country today. The population increases by approx. 70 000–80 000 per year, mainly because of labour and immigration from abroad, and this means that the housing structure currently taking place is far too low to cover the growth in population. Of course, it causes a rising housing price and a very high problem, especially for young people who are going to settle in the housing market. The government party and case spokesperson Håkon Haugli says that they see these issues, but the government and government party seem to act. One tries to blame the municipalities, one indicates that there is as much construction activity as the population growth was much lower. It's probably true, but the point is that when population growth increases as much as it is now, the supply of housing and building activity needs to rise to a much higher level. The party of progress believes that it is the market that can best regulate supply and demand, without one having a state-owned detailed management. We think that if one hadn't had all these counterinstitutions, all these new requirements, all these legal regulations, regulations and circulars on how to implement the planning processes, but also on how to design the housing – if one hadn't had this governance tool from the government – the supply and demand in the housing market would be far more balanced than it is. I am now recording that the government party says that one is required to see if this with countersigns is being misused. So after seven years, you have to look at it. Then my call is that one should do more than look at it, one should act and get some of these unnecessary and untimely contradictions to the municipalities, which takes a long time, even several years, to regulate a ready-to-use blank. In addition, there are all these new detailed requirements when it comes to the design of the building, which one does not want to reverse. One wants to sharpen this, with a passive house. Then there's a new supervision and detailed management in that area. A new independent supervision will now come from 1 January 2013 which will perhaps cost 10 000–20000 per dwelling, and then, of course, there are buyers who will have to pay for it. So in our opinion, this is why there are too few dwellings in this country: one has too many regulations and too much detail management of the market. If the construction market had been able to function freely without state detail management and interference, it would have been a much better balance than it is today. In conclusion, I would like to say something about this with a low-injection type, a proposal that Right has been put forward again. There I just want to make it clear that the Progress Party thought it makes sense that one has a capital of 25 pst. It's because one should have allowed 100 pst. loan financing would not only affect the individual buyer who would then have problems with the economy. The subject would transfer his problems to the others in the burette team. So we thought it was good to have an attribute of 25 pst. But we see no problem with the individual loan financing also the last 25 pst. if one, after a good banking judgement, believes it to be defenceworthy. We have full confidence that the banks will assess it in a good way. At the end of the day, I would like to make the proposals to which the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e842	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e845	The government does not exactly sparkle with a sense of initiative — nor does it sparkle with regard to housing policy. After seven years, the government has not been able to promote a housing announcement to the Stortinget, a message in which we could discuss the instruments of housing policy in more detail. This representative proposal is not intended as an exhaustive alternative to a housing notification, but it is at least an invitation to address housing issues in a slightly wider context. Our basic belief is that something has to be done about the offer page. There are too few dwellings built in Norway. There is under-covering of reasonable dwellings, and the imbalance is greatest in the big cities and areas around them. So we say that the offer page needs to be strengthened, the prohibition page needs to be weakened. We believe that the task is to remove the counterclaims for housing, get rid of unnecessary planning processes, get rid of objections that are not based on legal grounds of objection. The two tasks are to speed up the planning processes necessary for governance and public participation. The task three is to get rid of unreasonable cost drivers. This government has strengthened the technical requirements in two stages, only in 2007 and later in 2010. We now have a building message for processing. There we are going to go into the problem in more detail, so I will not spend more of the time here for questions that belong to the Report. Art. No. 28 for 2011-2012. The four tasks are to make initial establishment easier, not more difficult, for young people entering the housing market. In its alternative budgets, the right has always sought a better savings scheme for young people, with higher savings and higher deductions. We have previously discussed the unexpected and strong increase in the equity requirement. So there is a group of people who are now being deprived of the opportunity to ask for housing because they are going to be problems, according to the Financial Supervisory Authority. For example, the five tasks are: to remove the five-year rule in the regulatory plans. It makes the financing side more difficult. Five years in particularly complex, dense urban strips is no time. There are many projects that have received no precisely because the time horizon is so short. We want to go back to the old system: the City Council or the City Council adopts a regulation plan, and it applies until a new one is adopted. The 6th task is to support the municipality in land policy through incentives and guidance. There we are in a situation where state-specific interests override local self-government and use the opposition institute negatively. We want to make the statesmen guides, if it's the state's perceptions, and not the blocking agencies. Task seven is better government organization. We want to have a department responsible for all instruments of housing policy, and that department will be the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. So we want to transfer the plan part from the Ministry of the Environment. We also want to continue the construction cost programme that the current government shut down in 2010 and that was initiated by former municipal minister Erna Solberg. The 8th task is that the State can also use positive instruments to help with the obliging financing of rail solutions, which can open up new areas for housing outside the city's dense centre. There is no need for the State to do much more than enter into an obliging sub-financing scheme that allows the municipalities to plan with security. The task nine is to pursue a predictable tax policy and not so much doubt about the ability of ordinary people over time and of their own income to obtain and maintain housing. I would also like to say that after hearing Haugli's contribution, you almost get the impression that when the production of housing goes well, it's the government's fault, and when things go bad, it's due to the economic cycle. And we're almost all going to accept that the prices of dwellings are rising much faster than the prices of all other possible goods in society. It's not sustainable development. I will end by mentioning proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e877	The representative Michael Tetzschner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e880	It is nice to have a housing debate while we are working in position with the Storing Message. We meet a lot at conferences and panel debates for the time being, but it is also nice to take it to the main hall. When Michael Tetzschner thinks it sparkles or sparkles little of our housing policy, we could expect that it was then very exciting to read through the suggestions that have been made here. I'll show them and comment on them. My main reaction is that I don't think there's so much exciting, disconcerting and sparkling about this proposal list either. To take it with the Housing Council first, it is very exciting to discuss whether to reorganize the government. My starting point is that we have too many government councils and not too few. I've been concerned about my soul, and it was also Michael Tetzschner that maybe we should have a common planning council. Maybe it's as much as what's in the proposal here, as a common Housing Council. But I would like to have more discussions around how we can streamline and get a more holistic thinking out of the central state, including the government. With regard to objections, I believe that the proposal that lies there is almost identical to the legislation in force in this area. It is proposed that a person should take out a slightly diffused last opportunity to raise objections for other reasons of major importance. Based on the small amount I examined yesterday, this is an objection authority that has been used to a minimum. This underlines the fact that the Right believes the same thing as we are red-green, that here there is probably not a regulation that needs to be amended, but a practice that needs to be improved. It is therefore very good that the department now takes that practice review and, not least, in this connection is different from those parts of our country where this works very well. We have been on a committee trip to the Stavanger region, where it appears that a good practice has now been developed, characterised by trust, generosity and a common ambition that the Ministry of the Environment will have fewer cases. As regards proposal No: 3, based on falling productivity: I've learned in the last few months that we're going to be a little careful to say that it's clearly decreasing productivity. The construction industry is so often, and I think it's more right to say that it's very uneven quality. And then it's nice that the industry has a desire to engage in dialogue with us to improve quality. Then it is not least all that has to do with education, continuing education, how we accept immigrants, etc., that is important to get here. It is so good that serious parts of the industry are so interested in cooperating with the central authorities in that particular area. As regards proposal No: 4, Håkon Haugli replied in a very good way. I have an example from Lillehammer that is very clear in this situation, and I do not fully understand what is being written by the proposers that this is a virtually non-existent problem. As regards proposal No: 5, the wording that requires a contract work is used. In the evening post on Sunday I saw that Erna Solberg said something about the need for a governing body, something about the municipality and the county municipality. I believe from before that we should rather try to simplify our systems, so I'm very sceptical that we should get a new organ, and that it should govern in addition to the organs we already have. Once again: I do not think our legislation is the main problem here. Let us also take advantage of the opportunities and not least the ambitions of the current law on planning and building. So a little bit to the Progress Party at the end. I have said in a previous debate here today in the Chamber that the Progress Party is using every opportunity to have an immigration policy ‘statement’ regardless of the title of the case. And here it's going to be done again. They believe that the reason for the lack of housing is that there are so many immigrants. It's a little interesting about this, because here we have a construction industry that is so happy that we have a lot of work immigration to be able to have the level of activity that we think should be there and that we want to strengthen. Most of the immigrants in Norway today are just immigrants who we need in this industry. But that immigration obviously does not want the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e899	It is important to make sure that everyone has a safe place to live and that adequate housing is built. The last is not the case today. As a result of the financial crisis, construction activity in Norway fell sharply, with a boom level in 2009. At the same time as reduced housing, we have experienced historical growth in the population. In total, this has naturally led to a much greater demand for housing than the offer. Although the construction rate has increased every year since 2009 and progress is moving in the right direction, we still experience a large deficit. The forecasting centre estimates the annual need for new construction to lie around 38 000 dwellings. Last year, 28 000 homes were built, which is a total of 10 000 too few. In my opinion, the reasons for building too few dwellings are many and complex and very different from press areas and to smaller communities. In some areas of the press, lack of political will to keep up is an important cause. For few pre-regulated plots for residential purposes and for under-thought-out transport and land planning purposes, another important reason is to be found. The proposers point to objections raised by State authorities as a main cause. Objections may correctly lead to longer time for proceedings in some matters of a plan, and the Central Party fully agrees that we need better coordination of state objections. But, as a general rule, municipalities have the power to adopt land plans with definitive effect. The Ministry of the Environment is the only authority that can review such a decision. All that time only 2 pst. The municipal government's plan decisions are dealt with by the Ministry of the Environment, and many of the decisions that are then taken are also in line with the decision of the local government, there can hardly be any main reason for building too few dwellings. The centre party is concerned that there seems to be falling productivity in the construction industry, at least in parts of the industry. This is not due to a lower pace of work, but many jobs need to be repaired again due to defects and defects. Therefore, a lift of competence must clearly be a priority area in the future. In the district municipalities, the reason for building too few dwellings is often low housing prices. The construction cost of a dwelling, if we ignore the land costs, is about the same across the country. The market value of the same single dwelling can be the multiple in Oslo in relation to a small municipality with a decline in population. A rule of thumb in many small municipalities is that the value is halved when you put the key at the door. Then it goes without saying that you have to be reasonably sure that you will live here for the rest of your life before you dare to set up your own home. Therefore, the Ministry of Local Affairs’ project with grants to selected municipalities is an important scheme to gain experience from. The evaluation will show whether this should be a permanent arrangement so that everyone can settle where they want to. Many ask themselves if there will be no vacant dwellings when the population of a municipality goes down, but often empty dwellings are not offered for sale. The heirs choose to sit with them and use them for leisure homes, as it is paradoxically both two and three times as expensive to buy a cabin in the same area. The representative proposal was promoted at a time when it was clear that the government would present a comprehensive communication on housing policy. Therefore, we believe it would be natural to await the notification and see the different measures in the context. The majority of the Committee is therefore prepared to discuss parts of the draft representative in the course of the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e914	It's a huge pressure on the housing market a day. This is not due to enormously good economic times, but perhaps more to a lack of an active housing policy. In 2011, only 28 000 new dwellings were built, despite an estimated annual housing demand of about 2 000. 38 000. The low housing construction will lead to a further warming up of an already heated housing market. New interventions are needed to increase housing, while avoiding urban sprawl for climate, soil protection and social capital. Norway’s housing and urban development policy is not sustainable, and it is time to think new and smarter. Norway has never had higher population growth than it is now, and the growth in 2011 was 65,000 people, or 1.3 pst. The population has now reached five million inhabitants. About four out of five Nordics live in cities and towns, and that's where the growth is strongest. This affects housing prices. Housing prices have quadrupled since 1993 and are now higher than ever in Norwegian history. This is due not only to population growth but also to the growth of the Norwegian economy, low interest rates and changing family patterns, which have given more individual households and thus more households in total and increased demand for housing. The lack of a conscious national housing policy also contributes. The Managing Director of Selvaag Båg, Baard Schumann, has previously stated that the housing prices could be 10-20 pst. lower if the government had pursued an active housing policy. The Christian People's Party wants a sustainable housing policy. Sustainability isn't just about building houses with sustainable materials, it's also about cities and cities' design. We need to strive for urban and urban development that will make it easier for us to live, work and trade in the same place. That is why the Christian People's Party wants national policies that ensure adequate housing in areas with growth pressures. It is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to enter the housing market. 98 pst. The population aged between 20 and 30 says that they want to own their own housing, but more and more are outside. The Christian People's Party believes that more needs to be done to help young people enter the housing market. The housing prices have doubled in ten years, without the financial limits of the BSU being applied. 82 pst. of young people between 17 and 34 years of age believe that the current BSU limit of 150 000 kroner is not enough. And most recently this summer, as many know, the group leader in DNB, Rune Bjerke, demanded that the BSU limit be increased to NOK 300,000. For the current financial year, the Christian People's Party proposed to increase the financial limits to DKK 300000 for total savings, DKK 25 000 for annual savings and increased the deduction to 28 pst. This would make a huge difference for many young people who are struggling to enter the housing market. This is particularly important in the light of the government’s recent strengthening of the equity requirement to 15 pst. in the case of the purchase of housing, which in isolation appears to be more of a measure to strengthen banks than to facilitate a more efficient housing market. The capital requirement will lead to even greater problems for more young people entering the housing market. The rule can push young people into the rental market and increase speculation there. I think there is a need to lower the equity requirement from 15 to 10 pst. the level before the recent increase. The government has announced that there will be a notice of housing policy. The expectations of the Christian People's Party for the message are clear. We expect that there will be a strategy for increased housing in Norway, so that enough housing will be built to satisfy demand. Young people need to be more able to enter the housing market with a better BSU scheme, for example, and in order for more people to have the opportunity to purchase own-dwelling, the equity requirement must also be lowered, in our view. The Christian People's Party believes that there are enough good descriptions of reality and nostalgic feedback from the government; now there is a need for action, measures and instruments that can improve the situation on the housing market. These are our expectations for the notified housing message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e941	The government's goal and the superior vision is that everyone should live well and safely. A good housing is a basic premise for a good life and for creating a good home for young people and adults. In recent times it has been a high population growth in Norway – historically high. That is why we have asked questions about whether enough housing is being built in this country. It is a pleasure to see that the building is on the right track. New building figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that in the first 9 months of the year, 22 300 dwellings were built, and that's almost 10 pst. more than during the same period in 2011. The forecasting centre has estimated a start-up of 30,000 dwellings in 2013 and 31,000 dwellings in 2014. In addition, we know that every year in the last few years it has been built around 2000–3 000 dwellings from non-residential buildings. If the estimate for the start of new housing matches, we are approaching the activity we had in the peak economic period before the financial crisis. The increase in construction activity has contributed to a certain extent to reducing the pressure in the housing market. So we're on the right path with the building, but we have to do more. The government, as a collective committee, is busy pursuing a policy that allows the pace of housing construction to be kept up and up, and that enough housing is being built throughout the country. However, I would like to stress that the state should not control the number of dwellings to be built. Our task is to ensure good framework conditions and to facilitate efficient construction processes. There are private households that buy housing, there are private builders that build dwellings, and the municipalities that are responsible for making it possible for us to have more land to build. I would like to mention here the government's goal of reducing bureaucracy in construction shaft processes. In the building message I submitted in June, the government warned that several simple construction measures could be implemented without having to search the municipality first. The goal is to reduce the amount of cases by 30 pst. This will allow municipalities to quickly manage their building. Electronic handling shall be introduced, which will simplify further. The suggestions that are presented today are a good basis and will make a good impression on the work we are doing with the building message, but not all. I think that debate on the government's internal organisation is a matter for the government – the internal organisation debate I will take there and not on the Stockholm Chair. In the case of proposal No: 2, the Ministry of the Environment is in the process of taking a closer look at the practice and consequences of a system of countermeasures under the Planning and Building Act – whether it works according to the objective – and of coordinating better, as I announced in the Building Communication, that the government would come back and work on ahead of time. I also want to get back to it in the housing policy message. In the case of proposal No: 3, I agree to prioritize a lift of competence for the whole construction industry. In the building message that is used in Stortinget, therefore, proposals have been made for the establishment of a collaborative project with the industry, which is to be called Bygg21. There shall be an area of cooperation between the construction industry and the administrative powers in order to carry out the knowledge lift required by the industry here. And the industry needs skills – it has been a decline in productivity since 2000 which is in stark contradiction to the productivity growth we have in other businesses in this country. The proposal for a permanent centre of R & D for the construction, construction and property industries will be assessed in dialogue with the industry in that work. We have a very good dialogue with the construction industry on these questions. Petter Eiken, who was the chairman of the Building Cost Program, is engaged as a project leader to plan the start-up of Building21. It has to be organised in such a way that it has lasting effects in the industry, because the Directorate for Building Quality tells me that we do not see lasting changes in the industry after the construction cost programme. Then we have to organise the new programme better than the old one. I'm also surprised that a proposal to lift the ban on low-injection shells after a broad political plurality will uphold the ban. I'm not commenting on that further. I see that time is running so fast, so I can rather come back to the second point in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e958	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e961	I didn't think it was so much new from the municipal minister on this topic here. It was said that everyone should stay well and safe, and it was said that the government is on the right track, but I am not so sure if it is broken in the government or because of the government. Furthermore, it was said here that good framework conditions are important and that one should reduce bureaucracy and assess it on an ongoing basis. But then we also see that it is suggested e.g. independent supervision, which will cost the individual purchaser NOK 10 000 to NOK 20 000. And it's going to happen from 1 January next year without any regulations in this area at all. My question is: does the Minister of State not realize that it would be better and less regulated, less detailed management, and that we would have built more?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e970	One of the major challenges in construction industry is construction errors. At TEK 7 and TEK 10, there was a big debate, not least in the media and of course in this room, about what the government would do to ensure that individuals and families did not get their life project destroyed by infallible craftsmen. There is still a problem. Many billions are being swept away by society, by families and individuals their means because there are building mistakes. All the countries around us have a building control, and it is not surprising that a country like Norway, with the experience we have, should also have an independent control, which should not control in detail, which should not go into detail in individual measures, but should ensure that the large projects are built in a good and safe way for the benefit of those who are going to buy the dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e975	Of course, as a legislative body, we should not have too many opinions about the more detailed division between departments, but it has not prevented us from paying attention to the fact that the government seems poorly coordinated on issues not least related to planning and local self-government. What I would like to hear from the Council of State is how she deals with her fellow State Councillor, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell's instructions that the County Council should use increased state objections if local government does not do as the Council of the Environment Council will, and if she does not share the view of the KS, which believes that this is a transfer of local self-government to central political discretion, and that it should also have been notified of normal legislative change procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e982	I am going to be careful to go into other councils of state, but I still want to say that I share the intention of the letter sent out by the Council of State, Solhjell. The intention was that building policy and housing policy should have a much clearer place in planning than it has had in municipalities to date. I think that's important, that an addition to getting housing, more weight. When it comes to KS's recordings, I expect them to be recorded in the discussions we have with KS, in the consultation meeting, which of course the Ministry of Coordination is also involved – we will discuss them there. In addition to that, I found it difficult to enter and categorize other councillors' letters that were sent from other departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e989	I think the Council of State should be interested in that, because it is directly involved in the Council of State's field of office. In the past, state councils have spoken hot for local self-government. She says here that the letter's intention can be sound. But it's not like this in the world that you can be judged on the basis of your intentions – it's based on the effects and what this looks like. My question is: could she think of helping to satisfy the wishes of the Municipalities' Central Association and demand that this letter be withdrawn, because it is a major intervention in some of the things that have been the Norwegian political community, namely the local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e998	I have not received a request from KS about this matter, but I will follow closely on this matter, as I do on other matters relating to local self-government, and on their communities' well-being and their ability to do their work. And, as I do otherwise, if I see that it gets a rash that I don't want, I'm going to take it up if it comes to me. As of today, I have not had such requests, either from local authorities or from KS. But as I said, I'm always busy listening to the municipalities and KS, and I want to do it in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1005	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1008	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1011	All people need a real place to live, but forms of living can vary from where you live, what your life is in, and how you want to live your own life. In any case, there is a need for housing and access to new dwellings. We have a historically high population growth, which, of course, increases the pressure on the need for housing. At the same time, we experience a strong urbanisation where young people move from small places to cities and towns. It increases the pressure on the housing market in key areas, but at the same time, housing is not released in less central areas, as one might think. Even municipalities with negative population development experience housing shortages, partly because new dwellings are not built because of costs. A new dwelling will fall heavily in some areas of the country as soon as a key is put in the door. Price and demand on the housing market do not work the same in this country. District-Norway requires rental homes or so-called through-dwellings in order to attract new residents, or the necessary skills in different areas. Our general increase in wealth also means that if someone moves from District Norway, it doesn't necessarily mean that they have to sell their home. We have 418 000 leisure homes in Norway. Some of them are childhood homes or former homes that are now classified as recreational homes. This gives us a great deal of freedom and great opportunities, but such conditions also affect the total supply of dwellings. In order to solve the lack of housing, more dwellings need to be built, it needs to be densified and plans need to be made for increased housing. Planning and use of land is a responsibility of the authorities. Access to housing in Norway shows that the market cannot exist alone. It does not provide housing for all who need housing, but if all actors – municipal authorities, private entrepreneurs and the capital market – cooperate and have common goals, we can quickly increase housing construction in Norway. That must be our goal in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1025	Market solutions have always been the right mantra of housing policy. That was the background to the deregulation of the housing market under Willoch, and that was the background for Erna Solberg's wing clipping of the Husbank as a bank for common people. Sometimes small nostalgic flashes can be quite elucidating. Now the Right has a mantra, the Opposition Institute, which is being produced as one of the main obstacles to a good housing supply. The theme has been going on and on in this room for the last year, but instead of words, the majority of people who are sitting here have actually done something about that question. In new planning and building laws, the Storting has adopted two important things to deal with what could sometimes be perceived as a resource-depleting and undemocratic practice, with objections late in the proceedings, often across and across, and a poor municipality was locked no matter what one did. However, in new sections 3 to 2, all objectors now have both the right and the obligation to participate actively in the planning that affects their territory. Paragraphs 5 to 5 provide for the right to raise objections to lapse if the obligation of early participation has not been complied with, provided that the municipality has done its duty and notified the person concerned at start-up. The Minister for the Environment has stressed the importance of this for the state in particular in terms of housing. The people have been told to help ensure that plans are as good as possible for the provision of housing, and they should enter early. Of course, if the open-minded municipalities choose to ignore the important objective of housing supply, objections can be raised, and objections can actually become an important tool in increasing housing construction. It shows that reality isn't always as black and white as the Right wants it to be in this area. But then, unfortunately, there are things that indicate that the law is not being complied with as Stortinget has meant. A new report from Aplan Viak and Agenda shows, among others: 137 out of 140 municipalities have received objections or notice of opposition to the local and local level without always having been justified by national targets. But almost as alarming is that just 18 pst. by the municipalities believe that the new §5-5 of the Planning and Building Act has actually contributed to early input into the planning processes. When nearly 60 pst. answer: no, it doesn't, or no, we don't know, it's something that isn't right. We have asked for, and received, the Minister of the Environment's acceptance that an initiative has now been taken across all departments to really put the new provisions into practice as the Storting has intended them to be practised. It may well be as important as completely abolishing the opposition institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1038	Today, fewer dwellings are built than is needed. If we look away from the Oslo region, it is probably Hordaland and Bergen who in this area have the biggest challenges in the country. In Bergen, the builders like to refer to two conditions that delay the building: it takes too long to prepare new plots and the municipality is too slow to deal with plans and applications. The mountains use three times as long to treat a plank like Oslo. There's an example that it's taken ten years from a plane coming up until you can start the construction. Strengthening local authorities’ planning departments is one important measure to reduce the length of proceedings in municipalities. The political parties in power must also help to manage well and to avoid constant dispensations. Many dispensations help themselves to train matters, and they lead to more complaints from both neighbours and counties, understandably. The mountains and Hordaland are otherwise completely at the tip of the country when the number of exemptions is involved, and they are also at the top of the country in a wrangling with the county councillor – it may have a small connection. In order to ensure increased building construction, an active municipal land policy is needed. When the large building construction in Bergen took place in the 1970s and 1980s, Bergen was a central player. Today, the city council in Bergen has transformed this 100 pst. the municipal property company of a company that is only to be entrusted with the task of securing money for the municipal register, so-called financial ownership. Bergen plotting company has had to transfer large dividends to the municipality, which the municipality has used for welfare. The company's core business has been failing for several years, and it may run counter to the liquidation of the entire land company. Decommissioning or vending municipal land companies, as is currently happening in Bergen, is to excavate an active municipal housing and land policy. A clear municipal land policy is needed to secure land for public purposes, social housing and to reduce the price pressure. The experience is that when private couples take over, they prefer housing to become a 50-year priority. The market is running, and the prices are rising in the weather. In Rogaland and Sandnes, they make interesting moves. They're good at regional cooperation. The chairman of Sandnes has said to the Evening Post on August 3rd this year that there is a broad consensus that the municipality must sit in the leadership seat of the building. Through Sandne's property company, the municipality purchases land, facilitates road, water and sewerage, and then sells finished land to a private construction company. They then compete to build on the plot, among other things. how cheap they can sell the finished buildings. The municipality itself says that competition leads to housing being 15-20 pst. below market price. The goal is to control the 40 pst. of the market. This is wise policy. I think there is a need for such an active municipal land policy in all municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1060	I am pleased with the goodwill shown by the committee chairman, Aksel Hagen, by pointing out that the government parties are now sitting in the middle of the debate on a new housing announcement, and that it is then nice to get a bit of input from the Stortinget as well – while the central party in the debate has been most concerned about saying that it is a little unfinded by the Right to promote new proposals in the housing policy, all the time the Storting should have a housing policy notice for treatment. We therefore supported our proposal on 7 March this year. The majority and the committee have spent a lot of time on this proposal, but we have not seen any housing announcement from the government. So we're still waiting in suspense, and I'm glad to have the opportunity to debate this. Norway passed 5 million inhabitants in March this year, I guess. Then it had gone about. 40 years ago we passed 4 million. SSB track that in 17 years, in 2029, we will pass 6 million inhabitants. It is also expected that 9 out of 10 new residents will live in and around the big cities in this country, i.e. that there will be a population increase of 900,000 in 17 years. When we know that it takes 10-12 years to implement a road project, and that it might take twice to implement a large railway project, there are some of us – i.e. all – starting to get busy. We need new instruments, we need better cooperation between the state and the municipality. I noticed Kjersti Toppe's posts, which were an article that should have been held in the City Council in Bergen, with a unilateral attack on the City Council. I don't think that's the way you're going to treat the relationship between state and municipality. The State must organise, the State must also act on its own initiative and see that the institution of opposition is likely to have its effect or has its advantages. But then, as the Council of State said, coordination must be improved. That is why we would also like to point out that perhaps the Planning and Building Act as a whole should have been dealt with by the Minister of State. As it is today, we see that things stay lying down, it takes time. Lier municipality has e.g. long-term plans for a large-scale expansion of Lierstranda, where stock and industry are currently largely stocked, with large areas for housing. Lier Municipality is today without a municipal plan because the State raised objections and appealed the case to the Ministry of the Environment almost two years ago. Last July, in 2011, the state was on tour in Lier. They have still not heard from the Ministry of the Environment. We also need to continue in state processes, we need to clean up the bureaucracy that prevents offensive housing development in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1069	With regard to the uncritical belief of the representative Tetzschner that the market solves everything and the attacks on the state, this may sparkle, but good answers in housing policy are not. There is clearly a need to remind the Right that they control many of the municipalities where the challenges are greatest. The Labour Party does not disagree with the fact that the State has an important role to play, including: to ensure good framework conditions and good interaction, but the municipalities have to do their part of the job, and I hope we can agree on that. The municipalities have, among other things: responsibility for regulating sufficient space for residential purposes. The representative Tetzschner is hiding behind state objections to explain that it is no longer being built. The fact is that the state we are in now, Oslo, has few state objections, but is at the same time that part of the country where it is least built in relation to the need. The Association of Housing Producers calculates the annual demand in Oslo as 7 000 new dwellings. The City Council of Oslo, led by the Right, has itself a measure of 4,500 completed dwellings, and last year 1 800 was regulated. This year it looks like it's getting even fewer, and it's serious. At the same time, the municipality builds up the supply of municipal housing. There are almost 1 000 fewer dwellings for disadvantaged people in Oslo now compared with 1996, and local people elected for the Right, among others. the party's leader in the urban development committee, mentions congestion along collective nodes in Oslo west as fury. We see the same thing in Bærum, another of the Right Exhibition windows. There, for example, the local government will do not leak along the upgraded Colsås track. And at Fornebu, where the Bærum Right wanted to brake and have fewer dwellings, a government objection contributed to 1,000 more dwellings following decisions in the Ministry of the Environment. It is quite clear that the Right is failing in many municipalities and that decisions in municipalities have a major impact on housing. As I said, there are many reasons why we don't build anymore, but if the Right really wants to contribute something to housing policy, they can start by inviting their rapporteurs to a serious talk, not put their heads in the sand, or hiding in the disguise they call state objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1078	Norway has once again received housing issues on the agenda as an important political topic – in the media, in the municipalities and nationally, and I also believe that housing policy is now more often discussed around the dinner tables among ordinary people. In recent years housing prices have risen sharply, and it has become more difficult for many, and especially for young people, to settle in owner-occupied dwellings. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned about developments. For the Workers' Party, housing is one of the main pillars of welfare policy. Working for everyone, the right to education, good health together with the possibility of a good housing is the platform on which we build the welfare society. Let me say: essentially we have had and have a good housing policy in Norway. In Norway, eight out of ten own dwellings are owned, we have liberal high-standard dwellings, and there are few that are completely outside the housing market, and are registered as completely homeless. Unfortunately, the last category is increasing. It's to me a symptom of growing differences in society. In the Workers' Party, we will not accept that people remain standing completely without housing. But there is a major gap in this Chamber between the government parties, who want Community solutions, and the bourgeois parties, with the Right and the Advance Party at the head, who swear to the market to fix this challenge. The party of progress is the most obvious on this. We heard the representative Hagesett earlier today, with praises to the market – that the market regulates this best – in contrast to our response, which is that the democratic bodies of the community must intervene and facilitate housing. According to the representative Hagesetter, all these laws, regulations, requirements, rules and circulars are the problem – that's what makes people not housing. But the market has had quite a lot of freedom until now, and it has not solved the challenges. For us, it is a political responsibility to provide housing by facilitating and creating good framework conditions, as the Council of State described in its statement. We have significantly strengthened the social work of housing. The government has simplified and strengthened the housing support. Never before have so many received start-up loans from the House Bank. There are now more than 100,000 municipal rental homes in Norway. We need to continue the social work, but now is also the time to address housing policy – housing policy that concerns everyone, because we all need to have a good housing. Therefore, the housing notification is important. We are at work, and we are attending the recordings and ideas that come – also from the Right – and of course we are pleased that the representative of Greece is excited. We will call for the strengthening of political solutions. It doesn't mean plan economy, but it means that we have a political responsibility, and that everyone should have a good housing, that responsibility we should take.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1095	I am pleased that the Navarsete State Council has recognised that among the cost drivers of housing construction are the length of the regulatory processes, order regulations, the opposition institute from state sector authorities and new requirements in the building technical regulation for energy use and universal design. There are interesting concessions that provide the basis for discussing how to improve policy. I was also going to come back to a few points where the Workers' Party's representative was not completely unwilling to discuss our objections, and it was about being able to identify the counterclaims. In particular, we have highlighted the opposition institute and the uninhibited use of the opposition institute as a major sinner. Objection is a negative instrument, in the sense that it is an instrument that slows or stops plans, without the option of making better decisions. When an objection is raised, the municipality cannot dispose of the area, for example: housing construction before the objection has been withdrawn or the Ministry of the Environment has decided the case. That is why it would have been a great advantage for the debate on the Minister for the Environment to have found time, opportunity and interest in the Stortinge debate on housing policy. Objection was raised in 42-54 p.m. during the period 2007-2010. of the area part of the municipal plan. Including the notification of objections in the planning process, which also leads to a halt in the proceedings, objections were used in almost all municipal planning processes for the period 2007–2010. Of the 140 municipalities that have revised the municipal plan or developed municipal sub-plans during the period, 137 – which was also the subject of the representative Christoffersen – state that there was a warning or advocacy in the planning process. These are discouraging results. 46 pst. by the users of the local government sector believe that opposition is too marked by sector-based decisions and too few overall assessments. Almost 80 pst. of the elected representatives, in whole or in part, agree that the scheme, as practised today, is a major restriction on local self-government and should be amended. We've had experiences from Lier, Namdal, Fana, Bergen and Heggedal that things stop, and it's easy to do something about it. We can probably wait a while longer for the housing report, but the important thing is that the government gets the plug into the system and gets ahead of these planning processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1108	It is interesting to sit and follow the debate that shows that there are some dividing lines in this room between the red-green parties and the other parties in the view of housing policy, and what tools should be used. But there's also some similarity points, some things one might also be some about, and that's important. In my first post I didn't get into all the suggestions, and that's especially proposal No. 5 I want to comment. There is a ‘establishment of a Local and State Works Agreement for Infrastructure Development Cooperation according to the National Transport Plan’. There are, of course, good procedures for dialogue and cooperation between the various public operators in the national transport plan. I myself participated in the work of coordinating the work between Oslo and Akershus. It was very important in an area where there is a lot of pressure. The size has agreed that the growth of transport should come on the collective side, bicycles and corridors. That means that we're forced to change the way we look at land and transport planning. This means that the work now done by the Minister of Transport is very important to look at – towards the National Transport Plan – how we are going to do it in practice, so that we can expand along the connecting point, that we have transport trails that match construction areas, that we coordinate state interests at an early stage, and that we have parallel planning processes that will save time. Time is money, as it is called, and it is also important when it comes to speeding up housing, but not least to be able to see it from a health perspective and also from a climate perspective – not least in the big cities. In the case of proposal No: 6, the government has assessed the coordination of building liability management at the municipality and the Labour Inspectorate. The working group concluded that there would be no advantage to full coordination. Consequently, the government has considered that coordination should be limited to the technical requirements. Elles, the government in the major communication on building policy, has advocated the simplification of construction matters, which I have mentioned before, which will also include the coordination of legislation between different sectoral governance powers. It's important that the debate we're now holding has the sanity with us. It is not just a contradiction that is why there is a lack of housing. It's the big population that's come especially in the last three years. It is that municipalities, like Oslo, have many more built-up plots, but not where the builders want to build. It's a result that we also have many secondary buildings because they have been investment objects. We also need to include this in the debates on how we should facilitate everyone's good and safe housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1125	First, the Council of State had a very good reminder to all of us when we discuss housing: it's a theme where everything goes with everything. Here in the hall, the Right is very angry and stated about everything that has to do with state, and very happy in the individual municipality – the individual municipality is always right. Fortunately – I am told – this is not the case when the Right is designing its housing policy programme. There is also a right-wing need to do something at an over-municipal level. The contract work has already been mentioned. Once again: In the evening post Erna Solberg says that we must have a governing body between the central state and over the individual municipality in order to get more order on the housing construction. Also the Right – outside the main hall – sees that, not least in order to get the good overall approach to this with housing, we need to go up on a supranational level to do what we can call good regional planning. Was that what we really learned, largely by the Right-Rapporteurs, when we were on the committee tour in the Stavanger region, it was just that the problem was not the opposition institute. What solved this was that all the good forces – municipalities, county councils, state roads, county councils and the construction industry in a construction forum – sat down together and conducted offensive, good and comprehensive planning, all of which, as Lise Christoffersen said, was so important in his contribution that they came up early with their positions so that they could have real discussions. That it had ended up with some objections in Oslo, everyone agreed that there was more to the sign that you had failed a little bit completely on the tap. It should have been possible to avoid if you had lived this out in the way that everyone was so prepared would be good practice. There's so much good practice out there that we in the Biggest need to see more. Then there's this new way of running good, offensive and overall planning that we all have to be part of, more than that it's the regulation that's the big problem. I wonder that a party like the Right, which certainly has clear ambitions to get both the Planning Council and the Housing Council, can have such an easy approach to, among other things. objections. We can discuss whether it's a lucky name or not, but everyone agrees that notifying objection is the name of the recording that central authorities come up with early in a planning process, because when it comes to the heel, there are few of these that end up in the department as an unresolved conflict. Finally, in the case of Bård Vegar Solhjell and that letter, it was well thought, I am convinced of that. It was a call to do what we all agree on, namely that municipalities and county councils should put the topic of housing higher on the planning agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1140	Although not so much new has emerged in this debate, I think that the debate clearly shows that there is a division in the main hall between the opposition, which has the most faith in the market and that the market also regulates housing – as it is in most other areas if one is given freedom within the framework. The relationship between supply and demand in the housing market will then be regulated to a more favourable level. Then we have the position, which has greater confidence in planning economic thinking and that the state should rule. Erik Sivertsen had a post where he criticized, among other things. me because I referred to the market. Now it's not so that the market is allowed to be completely free. One should have frames and one should have rules when it comes to how the dwelling should be. So you don't have to have too much detail control. Today, there is too much detail control — and it has been for a long time. Construction industry has not had much freedom. They have little freedom of trade, and this has led to too little construction. One today has a two-digit number of laws that regulate construction industries and municipalities – plus regulations, plus circulars – that govern everything from the planning work in the municipalities to how construction should be built. This is detailed, and it obviously does not mean that the supply would be like it would be in a free market. Then the representative Aksel Hagen had a note when it comes to it that I showed that one of the reasons we have so much demand – so much pressure – today is that we have a big population increase in Norway. We are expected to increase by 70 000 to 80 000 in Norway, and I point out that most of this is due to immigration from abroad. A lot of work immigration leads to more people in this country. Of course, this means that they must have a place to live – either they must enter the rental market, or they must enter the own market and buy a dwelling. In any case, this will require an increase in housing construction and the provision of housing – for both hall and rent. I can't understand what's problematic about referring to such a fact-finding like this. If you're going to be criticized for that, I don't understand what you're going to be able to say from this pulpit without getting any criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1154	The next speaker is the representative Eirik Sivertsen, then the representative Michael Tetzschner. I see that Tetzschner is on his way up to the pulpit, but it's Eirik Sivertsen's turn, then Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1160	It might be tempting to assume that the representative Tetzschner wanted him to be in my shoes, but I don't think that's why he wanted to take the floor. I am pleased that the representative, Mr Hagesett, made it clear that the market must also be managed. In his first post, it could be seen that the policy was to release the market completely freely. That's what we usually hear from the Progress Party, but it was a good clarification to get. I took the floor for the second time to talk a little bit about what the representative Tetzschner has been dealing with in this debate – and on several other occasions – namely the Opposition Institute, because Tetzschner said earlier that the objection is a negative instrument. Yes, it is possible that some people experience it this way, but the opposition institution is also a very positive instrument, for objections are intended to protect the interests of the community. The challenge is that it often crosses local interests, and it is in this balance that we find all these dilemmas. We agree that with today's practice there are many challenges. It is a matter of coordination between different sectoral authorities that have this right, and it is a matter of time and length of time that these processes must take. I also share the concern that has been expressed here, about the basis for promoting objections, including: KS has submitted a report that shows that this is not always the way it should be. But I mean -- basically -- that objections are an important institute that we're going to keep. It safeguards the interests of the community, and sometimes the interests of the community go ahead of the interests of local democracy. I also have some comments on proposals that have now come from the Progress Party and the Right, because there are also objections. Its name is, among other things, in proposal No 2 that a mere shall: ‘promoting objections to proposals for the area area and regulatory plan of the local authority plan only on issues of national or substantial regional importance and not on issues which for other reasons are essential for the subject matter of the body concerned’. Then I have to ask: shall I perceive it so that the State Road Service will not now be allowed to raise objections in the light of road safety issues or in the interests of walking and cycling? Similarly, proposal No. 4, where it is proposed that the Grand Duchy should ask: ‘The Government shall propose measures to limit the right of objection to state authorities which act as a barrier to housing and local freedom of action’. Objections are, in their nature, a restriction on local freedom of action. Is this to be understood as a proposal to abolish the entire opposition institute? I don't think so, but it's a rather unexplained proposal, and we've previously challenged the right-wing parties to be concrete at what bodies it is that have the right to object today, which are going to lose it? You can think about it when the housing report comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1185	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1188	I thank the President for letting him go to Sivertsen first. It helps to lift the debate towards the end. At the end of the debate we can see that there are two things that divide the government side and the opposition side. One is that the government side thinks the plan is part of the creation – it's perfect, it's not going to make any changes. The right is critical of what is not working, and would like to regulate, but there should be sensible regulation that works with the market. The second point where I see that there is also a difference in the hall is the belief that central government – which is in practice the central bureaucracy – can go in and do the job to the building councils around the country and the beach. We don't think so. We do not regard local self-government as a collection of rampers and ramp owners who want to work towards common national interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1197	First to the representative Aksel Hagen, who believes that there is a difference between what Right believes in this room and what party leader Erna Solberg has done in the evening post. No, there's no difference. What we're saying is that now we need a new – as I also said in my post – cooperation between the state, the municipality and the county to clarify it as, among other things. was clarified in Oslopackak 3. This must apply to the whole country. One must have committed cooperation, where the State is also a cooperating partner and not just an objector. So to the representative Sivertsen, who said the community must go ahead of local democracy. What is the community? Is the Community Railway Agency, the Community Road Administration, the Community State Environmental Protection Department? That's what the objectors are in today's system. We don't want to remove this, but at least we demand that these floors start talking to each other. In Oslo, a new national museum is to be built. The problem is that the state has raised cross- and cross-cutting objections, which delay the whole process. The government has now spoken about coordination throughout this debate. It's been seven years with red-green rule. The government has said that the market must not be allowed to hustle freely with the housing market – for seven years with red-green governance. What's happened? Nothing. There's almost half a year left of this accumulation period. The government has not yet made a single proposal to contribute to what they say they should do. It's just talking. So far, there has not been a proposal to launch the market, of which Sivertsen is engaged, or to put the community before local democracy. I think we need to think about something new. We must begin to see cooperation between the levels of government, not a system where the state is dominant, where the Ministry of Environment can train, and where there is nothing happening. Then there will be no housing for the new million to come in Norway in 17 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1208	I will not help to lengthen the debate unnecessarily, because I see that another committee has already taken place for the longest time in the Chamber. But it may well be exciting to have a debate on the Planning and Building Act and housing policy for another committee as well. I just want to comment on a few of the things that Right Michael Tetzschner has brought up. One of the things he pointed out in his first post, which has not been commented on in particular from here, was the proposal to cancel five years' service life for regulatory plans, and that the plans would then live until a new plan was adopted. It seems that Michael Tetzschner has then gone into the trap of believing that a regulatory plan only applies until a new regulatory plan has been adopted. But this is not the case, because a current regulatory plan has to be repealed, and it has to follow the same process as a user when actually creating a new regulatory plan. One of the most important feedbacks to the Plan Law Committee, which passed through the old law, came from the municipalities and just went on the unlimited lifetime of the regulatory plans and how it was an obstacle to keeping pace in both planning processes and putting plans into practice. Lier municipality was also used as an example here of how state objection authorities cover all developments. When I was rapporteur – and I left almost ten years ago – Drammen municipality and Lier municipality had in good time before it agreed to make each of their municipal plans towards the municipal border, because we had common interests in the border area, and we agreed that we would spend one year on it. The municipality of Drammen kept its part of the agreement. When that year was over, the municipality of Lier said no, we don't want to participate in whatever, we want to start a whole new municipal planning process. I think Lier Municipality also has to take its share of the responsibility for the processes that have gone out in time. Finally, when Michael Tetzschner says that the majority experience the plan as the creation, I almost want to say yes. As a municipal politician, I experienced the Planning and Building Act and the Planning Work as the most important instrument I had to direct the development of that city where I was rapporteur, and as the main instrument to ensure popular governance of those processes. Actually, I'm quite proud that in eight years' time, using the tools we had in the Planning and Building Act, we were able to fully, and demand coordination from those who operated around us – whether there were municipalities, state agencies or others – change the image to Drammen from being a 'heavy' on the E18 to get the State's Urban Environment Prize. So the plan is almost the creation for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1219	The President is probably a little uncertain about what the creation has to do here in this debate, but nevertheless gives the word to the Council of Ministers of Navarsete and then to the representative of Eirik Sivertsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1222	I'm not going to get into the discussion about the creation, but I guess I think it's good to hear a previous saying, because there's something about having a seat out there and being part of local democracy. Then a little bit knows how important it is to have good laws to deal with. In any case, many good plans are born through the laws of planning and building and the decisions that are taken. Everyone in this room seems to agree that the main cause of the pressure in the housing market is the strong population growth – mainly due to labour immigration. This came quite surprising to most. But no one saw it happening during the financial crisis that it was going to be such a growth, and that we were going to get such a pressure. This means that in 2008 the municipalities were not able to cope with large plans and development areas. The building company was not ready with large projects to support what we see today. It's coming after 2009. In order to take on myself also the local politicians' shoes, I know that then there will be plots, and they are usually owned by private people. It's to be negotiated. One should regulate it – not too detailed, I say to all the municipalities, let alone regulate the control plans as much as many people do. But it takes time: it needs to be planned, and it needs to be planned, approved and financed when building an area. And then it's going to be built, and then people can buy. When I hear the opposition talking here today, it sounds like it's just the planning and building laws and the contradictions that are the reason we have too little use of housing today in relation to the population growth. Of course, it's because we've got a population growth that no one predicted just three to four years ago, and it's gonna take us a little while before you get the beat. But as I said in my post, we're on the move. That's 10 pst. This year, the growth of residential buildings started compared to 2011. We are immediately at the level we had when it was a recession, before the financial crisis. I want to commend that to both municipalities and builders, because it shows that one might turn around and do what people want, simply get more housing. So the black measurement that the opposition is putting on here, I don't know about it. I also don't recognize myself in, through the conversations I have with KS and the municipalities about this and other topics, how terrible it is. The government has taken initiatives for coordination. We're going to do that, it's inside the housing message, and the Minister for the Environment has said that he's already in the process. We have a good dialogue with both the KS and the municipal sector, and I think – and I would like to stress – that there is a lot of good work in the municipalities that I also think we can talk about in positive order in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1233	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1236	I asked for the floor because the representative of Greece obviously did not get the nuances in my post. He asks: Is the Railway Agency, the State Road Service and the State Community and the Nation? Yeah, they are, actually. It is bodies that manage the interests of the Community on behalf of the government and then on behalf of the Storing. And yes, that's how the interests they manage sometimes go ahead of local democratic interests. That's the way it has been, that's the way it is, and that's the way it's going to be in the future. I expect that the Right also realizes that it may be that the nation has some interests that sometimes go ahead of local democracy. So a little bit about the proportion of objections to municipal plans, which is raised as an argument: Yes, it may be true that some of the objections that are raised are not well-founded – as I said in my post – but it is not, as I know the municipalities, that experience is always such that the proposal for municipal plans is within the framework of what should have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1245	At least I have no doubt that when we came to the Stavanger region – the part of the creation called the Stavanger region – there was no doubt that the right-wing rapporteurs would use the plan to process the creation. Then I'm still uncertain about what the Right believes about this with coordination issues. So, it's easy to roll, as the representative of Greece does, over the state – no one represents the whole. But once again: Erna Solberg says that at a regional level, there will now be a governing body in which one will resolve conflict between the state and the municipality. So who's going to represent that whole thing right there? Can't Greece and the Right then apply a little bit of the same regime and systems that we have today? One could have done as SV will, and kept the county council, which today, according to the same planning and building law, is given such an overall responsibility. But the county council, the actor who's really set to think completely, will get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1252	The representative of Trond Helleland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1256	First, until the Navarsete State Council notes that there has been a large increase in labour migration, and that it came unprepared for most: yes, there would be such a large increase in population, probably unprepared for most. We have seen developments over several years, and therefore it is important that we have a plan, because we do not want to destroy the plan or remove the objection authority. We want discretion to be exercised in a way that contributes to housing and that does not hinder it. That is why we believe – and this is clearly something we have to do if we are to become a government – that the Planning and Building Act must be managed uniformly in one department, the Ministry of Local Affairs. So it's the representative Sivertsen, who goes further in his definition of community. He now raised the community to the level of government — it is the community in Norway. Local democracy is not so important as long as the community, i.e. The railway works through the government, Avinor or others, should raise objections. That's not our definition of community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1263	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1277	At the request of the Church Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1286	I'm going to go to another part of the creation, the body and our health. The size is to be considered today by representatives of the Progress Party on more physical activity in primary school. The proponents of the Progress Party propose to increase the frame-hour by one hour and ask the government to introduce national guidelines on one hour of physical activity each day in all primary schools of the country from the autumn of 2014. I would like to begin by commending the representatives behind the proposal. The Progress Party has come to an important recognition when they see the importance of physical activity, the importance of prevention and learning in other subjects. The Committee points out that increasing levels of activity for children and young people require cooperation at and between different arenas. The Committee is aware that in the spring of 2013, the government will present a cross-ministerial public health strategy in the context of the follow-up to the Public Health Act, and the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee that it will then consider its own sub-strategy for children and young people in order to make the importance of early action visible. The Committee therefore urges that the draft representative be annexed to the minutes. In this way, the intentions of the proposal can be reflected in the further work on a public health strategy. All parties in the Committee point to the importance of physical activity among children and young people. I assume that the parties themselves will comment on their proposals and comments, and will therefore now explain the majority's view. Increased physical activity for children and young people has long been important for the Working Party and the Red-Green Government. We share in many ways the concerns expressed by the proposers in the proposal. There is a great health benefit in that people are physically active. It is always cheaper and better to prevent than to repair. The interaction reform points to the need for preventive health work in many arenas in society. Good practice is established early, and research shows that adult activity is related to participation in childhood. Therefore, the voluntary effort that is put down every single day in sports around the country is an enormously valuable and important effort. For the red-green government, it has been important to facilitate volunteering, and we have also changed the key to increasing the income of sport. But it is a confession that not everyone finds himself at ease in organized sport. Therefore, the school is an important arena for an offer of physical activity, and therefore the government introduced two weeks of physical activity from the autumn of 2009 for the 5th to 7th stages. The reason for adding it to the childhood is that we know that the level of activity decreases with age, and that the country's 15-year-olds are considerably less active than the country's six-year-olds. That is why we have also introduced activity and health as a new electoral profession in youth. The main objective is to improve the physical health of individuals. Then I want to underline the action rooms that each school and the school owners have today, and that they should use. There are opportunities for schools themselves to facilitate more physical activity. One example is Søndre Land secondary school in Oppland, which every day has half an hour of physical activity in school. All the students attend, and the school itself says 95 pst. of the pupils are fundamentally positive. Increased well-being, improved concentration, improved learning environment and minor conflicts are reported. Let's give an example of inspiration for other schools. Then I have some commendation for the Advancement Party that they write and say a lot about physical activity, about children experiencing mastery feeling and boosting their self-esteem. But it must be allowed to put some question mark on the commitment of the Advance Party to physical activity, because unlike the Advance Party, the Working Party and the Red-Green have a thoughtful and holistic relationship with it. We believe that the experience of mastering and joy by being able to move is also important in the gym. We think it is important to learn young people about their own health and establish a positive relationship with physical activity. Therefore, the gym character should also consider efforts. But the Progress Party believes that it is more important to measure how far you can throw a small ball and how fast you can run the 60 meters than to give young people knowledge and pleasure in taking care of their own health. The goal must be to reach those students who today don't like gyms, who don't feel it, and who choose to cheat the gym class. It's the students who need mastery and mobility both in the gym and also in the physical activity. The Progress Party proposes that the government introduce one hour of physical activity in primary school. It is a pity that this is not re-found in the Progress Party's alternative proposal for a State budget. It is only then that we wish the representatives of the Party of Advancement in the Church, Education and Research Committees the best of luck to get through to their own party, and we also want you to be happy – if you will – to get along with the other bourgeois parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1316	The school has always been an arena of which politicians have been concerned – an arena in which the political party has engaged, has had strong opinions about and inspired to change and improve. Unfortunately, we see that there has been an ideological slump between politically motivated reforms over the past 30 years, which have affected school development. The success factor for several countries that perform better professionally than Norway is continuity and knowledge-based school policies. While in other countries the goal was to create a school that provides the best possible learning, the changing governments here to countries have used the school as the arena to mark their own policies. On the other hand, we in the Progress Party are concerned with results. We are committed to a policy that provides the best results for both the learning environment and the outcomes of the students. Today's school has great challenges. We produce mediocre results, score on average on international tests, have more and more kids leaving primary school without being able to read and write enough, and we have a learning environment where thousands of children are bullied every single day. The society of future competence places completely different demands on performance and knowledge. If we are to be part of the global knowledge economy in the future, we need to look at changes, and we need to look at what research is saying about what changes we are going to make. Gym and physical activity are an important part of school life, but unfortunately, physical activity among children and young people is declining today. In parallel with the increasing inactivity in society, we also see lifestyle diseases and other factors affecting children’s learning, cognitive capacity and academic performance. Extensive research into physical activity, both national and international, has been carried out over several years, showing a clear link between increased physical activity and increased cognitive capacity, i.e. the ability to learn. In the proposal for a representative, we refer the Progress Party to several of these reports, to several of the international research findings, which show this correlation. Therefore, it is rather disappointing to see that none of the other political parties want to support the proposals of the Progress Party, that none of the other political parties support the proposal to provide a day-to-day school that provides the best possible learning for the students. Another challenge we see is, for example: That the boys are still falling backwards in school. They top the drop-off statistics, they're the worst in reading and writing, and they've been bypassed in the disciplines where they've traditionally been the strongest. This is not because Norway’s boys are worse than the girls, but it is because they have a school day that is not organized for them. Studies show that more physical activity gives boys the opportunity to feel mastery, to get better concentration in the disciplines and to raise academically in line with the girls. In his statement, the rapporteur said that the government is in favour of the proposal, but that they will come back to it later. This is not good enough. We need to have changes now. This is not new findings, this is not something we found out yesterday, that physical activity is good for learning; these are research results from two, three, four, yes, up to ten years ago, which show – over and over again – that physical activity provides better learning. Then it's amazing that you're constantly pushing this away in the priority line, and that it hasn't been prioritised, not before and not now, and that you've been notified that you're going to look at this for next year. We in the Progress Party are dedicated to creating a school day that provides the best possible learning, and that provides a good learning environment for the students, which actually gives physical activity. Increasing the frame hour is the way to go, just to get this in place. When the representative Håheim was about achievements, this is about primary school. The Party of Progress has not called for the introduction of gymnastics, for example: from 1st class. The promotion party wants physical activity, stimulation of mobility, incentives for children and young people to move in school everyday life, so that they can perform better at school and get a better sense of mastery in everyday life. I wish we could agree to abandon the practice of all other political parties in government in the last 30 years, where ideology and symbols have been important in the formulation of school policy, and rather look at what research shows is important, and support the proposals of the Progress Party on one hour of physical activity every day in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1344	Does the President expect the representative to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1347	I would like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1352	The representative Hanekamhaug has thus taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1355	It is not difficult to agree that there is a need for Norwegian children and young people to be more physically active. It is also not difficult to agree that it is healthful to be active, regardless of age. But the question is whether it is the school alone that can solve the physical activity challenge for the younger garden, especially when we know that Norwegian school has the most hours in body training in Scandinavia. When The Storting in 2010 dealt with Meld. St. 19 for 2009–2010, Time for learning, there was a broad consensus in this room that there is a limit to what the school can do, and that we had to find a better balance point for parental tasks and society can otherwise relieve the school. Many good intentions for the school must not be the enemy of good. The evaluation of the promise of knowledge now suggests that the school is on the right track, and that the school is better able to lift the weakest students. But that doesn't mean that we're in goal, and it's clearly pointed out from the research team that the best students are stagnating, and that there's still a significant potential to lift many more students professionally. Then it is important that we keep our focus on what is now working, and gather even more resources in the work on basic skills, and strengthen the skills of teachers. In their comments, the right has been concerned that municipalities and schools are making better use of the local space for action. It's e.g. There is nothing wrong with organising schooldays with a little longer breaks, which can increase students’ chances of being physically active. Such activity can be facilitated both in the outdoor and gymnasium environment and in other suitable indoor public spaces. The right will also point out that in many subjects it can be quite natural to include teaching methods that also involve teaching outdoors, and in environments where students can combine professional activities with physical activity. This has given us many good examples of the research project from Sogn and Fjordane. There are experiences the rest of School-Norway can be inspired by. The right considers that in today’s situation there are other challenges in school that require greater attention and priority, rather than an increase in the frame-hour equivalent introduction of an hour of physical activity for primary school students. In this context, the right will also point out that the results of the EU-funded research project ENERGY show that Norwegian 10- to 12-year-olds are among the most pronounced, healthy and at least obese in this age group in Europe. The right considers that, in line with the objectives of competence of the Knowledge Promise, the school should contribute to the knowledge of nutrition and facilitate physical activity, but that this can be achieved without the introduction of new ear-marked hours for the purpose. I want to finish where I started, stressing that the school alone cannot solve our need to be in physical activity. Public health must also be cared for through the family and our leisure activities in the life we live outside school and working hours. I wish that several times and bicycle paths and safer school roads made more kids go to school, but the statistics show that unfortunately it isn't, so here's a job to do. Another important contribution to daily physical activity will be that we further stimulate the voluntary sector. We have a diversity in Norway of teams and associations that have the ambition to engage and create activity for both young and old, and this is a sector that Right wants to stimulate more, and for which we want to facilitate even better. They do a big and important job, and here we can get even more positive gains if we do even better. In the right, it is important to create space and understanding for the school to concentrate more on its main task and to address the challenges many Norwegian students face in mastering basic skills such as reading and billing. Therefore, the right considers that measures to increase students’ skills in these key areas must be given priority in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1378	First, thank the proposers for raising an important issue. Lack of physical activity is an increasing problem in our society. Yes, we can almost say it so strongly that there is a class distinction between the physically active and the inactive, between those who have a healthy diet and those who have an unhealthy diet. Much is linked to economic background and educational background. The Center Party's program for this period says that we want to make it possible for all students to have an hour of physical activity every day. Our point has been that schools and school owners must give this priority by taking advantage of today’s opportunities to implement such measures. Many schools have also done this within today’s framework. The centre party is occupied by healthy diets and a physically active population. The basis for good habits and good health is laid early in life, and there are clear medical arguments for the need for primary school children to regularly engage in physical activity. Inactivity has not only health but also economic consequences. An inactive population with an unhealthy diet can soon be precious to society. That's why it's right that we focus on physical activity – even at school. Children and young people spend most of their everyday life at school. The school is therefore a very important arena to increase the level of activity of students and thereby incorporate good habits that provide a basis for good adult health. The simplest measure for increased physical activity is that all young people start going to school, as represented by Aspaker. This is often more problematic than necessary. Many live far away and need a bus, but the bus can still put the students away at a certain distance from school, so that the students have to go the last distance – we have examples of that locally, also in my own village. Unfortunately, many routes are still dangerous to traffic, so road safety measures are also central in this context. Many young people need to be more physically active in school everyday life than they are today. But physical activity is more than just gym. Many people feel uncomfortable in high school, and the subject can be seen as having little pleasure. Therefore, it is important to find different ways of activating students in the ordinary day of school. When I attended the teacher's school over 20 years ago, one of the textbooks was: «Learn with your body, it's in your head». Already at the time, it was knowledge-based knowledge that movement was good for cognitive learning. This is still true, as experience from Sogn and Fjordane has shown us. The most easily activated student group is the pupils at the nursery — especially those in 1–4. class. The vast majority of people in this group are mostly seagoing when it comes to using the body in games and activities during leisure and in the SFO period. They can develop jumping ropes and football without adult control. In addition, children’s pupils are the most physically active at leisure. It gets worse when they get to high school and when they get to high school. It is also in this age group that the non-response from organised sport is reported. It is therefore important to facilitate — and focus — what motivates these young people to continue to be physically active without having to pursue sport at the top level, and perhaps even without having to have a professional trainer. In the setting, only the Progress Party wants to introduce a separate hour of extra physical activity in the school. Nevertheless, the setting expresses strong cross-political agreement that it is important that schools facilitate physical activity in school everyday life. It is possible to organise the timetable in such a way that you can free up time for more physical activity – it already does more schools today, as we have heard – and so the intentions of the Progress Party will follow in the further work on public health. But that is also an argument that we should take a debate on how strongly central governance we want, and how many hours we should decide on what from a central point of view. There is a strong need to focus more attention on health-related prevention. The responsibility for our kids being physically active and having a good diet lies primarily with their parents. Then the school will take its share of responsibility for giving students the opportunity to take responsibility for their health in a life-long perspective. It is obvious that prevention is better than repair.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1404	Norway is experiencing major public health challenges related to lack of physical activity and increased obesity, obesity and other lifestyle diseases. According to the NRK, a survey conducted by Norway’s sports college shows that only 40 pst. of the 6-year-olds and 65 pst. by the 9 and 15 year-olds go to school or bikes. From before, we know that only half of Norwegian 15-year-olds comply with the Health Directorate's recommendation in at least 60 minutes of daily physical activity. An average Norwegian 15-year-old sits more quietly than an average 65-85-year-old. In the last 20 years, there has been a doubling of obesity and a triple doubling of type 2 diabetes in Norway. More and more people suffer from chronic diseases, and a large proportion of the population suffer from mental illness during life. We believe we need to start in schools and kindergartens in order to do something about this. If we're going to get more students to go and cycle to school, we're going to have to invest more in the development of safe walking and cycling routes. Such a commitment must ensure both the financing of development and measures to improve the accessibility and safety of cyclists and pedestrians. But it also needs to be made possible for parents and school together to make the school path attractive and safe, and to be used together. Much physical activity takes place during leisure time and by deliberately facilitating physical activity in school everyday life. In order to make this possible even better, we need to set clear quality requirements for outlying areas of schools and kindergartens that target both the size of the area and the content. Unfortunately, swimming is also a neglected area. Every summer, there's a headline in the media about bad swimming skills in children. Many accidents with tragic outcomes could have been avoided with better swimming skills. That is why we must fill the basins, as a certain Prime Minister promised seven years ago. We have to build and rehabilitate several swimming pools. Swimming skills are so important that we believe that we also need to introduce a national skill test in the fourth stage of primary school that all students must pass before swimming training can be completed. Many young people are sitting still for the time being, and we often owe it to data and ICT use. Then I want to praise the game producers who have also developed activity games, which can be recommended at the warmest. A tennis match at Wii or a rocking game with a sneeze can really create physical activity at Christmas, which has otherwise been relatively still. It is also possible to use data and ICT for physical activity and to get young people out of the chair. So it's not just negative with all the new technological instruments. It has now been ten years since the Bondevik II Government presented the most recent public health report, Recipe for a healthier Norway. There is now a high time with a power cap for a fresher Norway. We don't believe in government-enforcement for school, but to have a high focus on this, where you think physical activity integrated into school day in a much stronger way than you do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1423	This Document No The 8 proposal is an interesting and important proposal. It also shows some very interesting differences between the views of the parties on civil learning and the greater the consensus on the red-green side. It's not like we're sending our brains to school alone, we're sending whole kids to school. We know that there is a connection between mental health and physical health, between learning and physical activity. It's precisely because these two different elements can play together to increase learning outcomes, that it's important to discuss it. There I see an interesting difference between the Right and the Advance Party in this debate. It's old – what to say – folk learning with a healthy soul in a healthy body and towards the chest, wit in the forehead, steel in the legs and arms and all that I've grown up with, and that probably several others in the hall have also grown up with. It relates to the learning outcomes we can get in other areas, and the physical state we're in. I just want to tell the representative Mette Hanekamhaug first that I believe that the Progress Party must update itself in relation to the situation in the school, and which way we are going now. We're on the right track. There are many positive results from the knowledge base that we now have on the Knowledge promise, among other things. that the weakest successful pupils have taken a year to complete. Then, of course, there are also some challenges, especially in view of the fact that those who are high-performance should need to stretch even more. But we have to describe what's going on in school in the right way. If we don't take the courage of all those who do a great job. We're on the right track, and we have very good results to show. And then we have greater ambitions. The last thing I want to say to the Progress Party is that when you insert a Document No. 8 proposals to introduce an hour of physical activity every day for all students at school, it has a price tag. That price tag is equal to 5.3 billion. kr. I see nothing of that proposal in the alternative budget of the Progress Party here and now. Then there's something about calling hallelujah, you have to do hallelujah too, or do it too, because this is primarily a question of how to prioritize different good goals in school and education. At least I understand that the three red-green parties agree that these are important purposes that we're going to play together, and then we have to figure out what's the right balance in the future. We have many exercise sessions – that's the third largest subject in the school, with a total of 706 hours. We've changed the evaluations and the way to give final competence, that is, set grades, in terms of body training in higher education, because it's a subject where we mean activity in itself is a point. It helps to put good habits for the future. That's why we've included that as well. We know from research that there is context in two ways, with two gains, of increased physical activity. One is, of course, general public health, how we stay in shape through an ever-increasing life expectancy – a very important perspective in terms of saving money on health budgets in the future and improving quality of life. But we also know that the learning outcomes of students who get fresh air, suffer, have good fitness, etc., increase. We also have points of reference for that. We have good experience seeing these things in context. We've also introduced physical activity at the 5th and 7th stages of school, precisely because we see that it's a crucial age given that the physical activity is dabbing off. What is a big dilemma in terms of physical activity and healthy lifestyle is that the groups that are already healthy and active are much more receptive to information about this than those who need it the most. That's why there's a lot we can do to influence the population. That means that those who practice do more, and those who do not practice, are not convinced. It makes the school a very important arena in terms of reaching those who are not being taught in a family where physical activity is a common part of the weekly plans. That is at least the background that I think we have good arguments when we go on and discuss how to expand the offer to link more of the physical activity to the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1444	The Council of State stated that priority should be given to the use of funds in schools. Then it's a little surprising for me to see that one of the top priorities of this year's budget is to introduce a free hour cultural school for all students from the 1st to the 4th. step, while not using a single crown for example. increased physical activity or activities stimulating this increase in school. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is why they prefer to prioritise one hour of cultural school provision every day, rather than spending more money on increased physical activity. Is it because the cultural school offer provides better learning, or is there any other reason to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1451	What's in the budget is one hour of cultural school either at 1, 2, 3 or 4 in a week. This is because we believe that the cultural school offer should reach all children. What we see is that today is about. 110 000 to 120 000 children and young people admitted to the cultural school offer. As prices increased due to the inclusion of this subsidy in the municipal framework in 2004, the queue did not decrease. This means that those who are applying for the cultural school today are parents with reasonable advice that is already interested in culture. That means that quite a number of children, who have parents who don't have high priority or poor advice, don't get that offer at all. There are also many talents that have the potential to develop in terms of more aesthetic skills and that need that kind of impulse. We want diversity when we put together what is school everyday.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1456	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1459	Since half the hall has now been on the pulpit and shown to Sogn and Fjordane, it is perhaps natural that I explain what this is all about. The matime at Trudvang school in Sogndal is not like math lessons most, and as we know them. Pults and boards are replaced with matte fat in the school grounds and in nature – a simple concept that combines two good, easy math and physical activity. The starting point is simple: there is a sheet with 80 tasks in the gang table, both splitting and multiplication. The class is divided into layers that each get a laminated note with selected tasks that need to be solved. There are two and two layers on each layer, so they can learn how to work together on the tasks as well, and then they run back and deliver the note to the next layer when the task is solved. It started out as a limited research project, where a group of 4 and 5 classes got an hour of physical activity in the school. After two years, it turned out that these students were in a much better physical form and had less risk of heart and car disease than the elephants who did only regular body training according to their curriculum. The further conclusion is that physical activity in the school has an enormous impact on children's health, the environment at the class stage was significantly better, and the children said that they felt greater well-being at school and had greater tolerance for each other. There was less bullying, and students generally had more positive input into problem and conflict resolution. Children with a different culture, language or other skin colour were also better integrated. Even if all other subjects were cut by 5 pst. To get time for the new hour, students did very well on the national tests as well. This can, of course, all run free copies and obtain without any permission from either government or government. But more research is needed in this area. The high school ball in Sogn and Fjordane, with the skilled researcher Geir Kåre Resaland at the head, has applied to the Research Council for 30 million. kr to one of the largest students of schoolchildren's physical activity ever here in the country. We're talking about a large-scale project where all of the 100 schools in the state will participate. I believe that the results of this research will be able to revolutionize the results of the school, revolutionize the students' health, and organise the school day next time. Let's get the science-based experience in place before we move on. Everything indicates that this is going in the denominator direction. The working party will probably also fix this, so the direction is clear. I think we should take the time we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1478	Health is important for all human beings, but the aspirations for good health are very different. Social relationships relate to growth, education and work, which we, training and physical activity are decisive for health. Data show significant health differences between socio-economic groups in Norway. Cardiovascular diseases, chronic pulmonary disorders and cancer have become the new folklore diseases. Health is increasing with higher education and income. Similarly, lower income and education provide poorer health. These health differences are socially created and can be prevented by an active public health and distribution policy. Physical activity is an important factor for good health. The basis for physical activity is laid in childhood. From a public health perspective, it is surprising that studies suggest that Norwegian children and young people are much less physically active than before. According to the Institute of Public Health, one of five eight-year-olds today is overweight or obese. Increased efforts to prevent health work targeting children and young people at school are among the most important measures to prevent disease and smooth social health inequalities. Then we'll all get to the kids. One hour's physical activity in the school is something the Center Party has hidden in its current program. The Cancer Association, the Norwegian Medical Association, the National Association of Folkehelsa, the Norwegian Physiotherapeutic Association and the Norwegian Sports Association have agreed on the same requirement. Research shows that physical activity in the shuletida not only contributes to the prevention of disease but also promotes learning by promoting memory, increasing concentration and strengthening the social environment. It is not necessary to expand the frame rate to achieve this. In Sogndal, to which many have referred, they have experience in introducing 60 minutes of physical activity every day. The time has been taken by other schoolteachers and by the time the children started five minutes earlier in school. In addition to better physical form in students, the school registered better class environment, less bullying and better integration of children from other countries. There are also several international studies that now show that the children who get more physical activity at the school, at the expense of traditional subjects, do not get weaker in the subjects – on the contrary. I am very pleased that the Højskulen in Sogn and Fjordane have recently been allocated 17.5 million. kr from the Swedish Research Council to start up the three-year project Physical activity and school performance. The main aim of the project is to examine the relationship between physical activity and learning, well-being and public health in all 5th-classes in the state. I hope the project will pave the way for a national offer, where all the elephants in the base ball will be guaranteed a school day that involves an hour of physical activity every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1497	I want to start by saying that it is very good that the Progress Party has raised the matter, simply because this is a debate I think it is necessary to take – also here. It is largely carried out in Norwegian communities, in schools and among researchers. I've made some considerations after hearing the different parties come up with their views. All of us are positive, in general: we want ourselves to trim more, and everyone else to trim more – both for the physical health of people and because we know that it affects economic parameters, to use that kind of concept. We get fresher, and then it gets fresher, for example. lower health costs — and this is particularly important in the case of children. But there's an additional element, and there's this thing about learning outcomes, and there I would say there's a certain nuance difference between the Progress Party and the Right in the debate. The right refers to basic skills as very important goals, and they are very much in agreement, but there are nuance differences in whether physical activity itself will improve learning outcomes. Research documents it. I really think that we have only started this debate so far, and that in Norwegian school, in Norwegian education policy, one has to take this much more seriously with physical activity – not least because there are so many social differences that Anne Tingelstad Wøien had. There will be greater and greater differences in the weight of children from families with poor finances compared to children from families with good finances. In some parts of Oslo, even children may weigh a little too little, which is also about social background. So this with health and diet – all this – cannot be isolated and placed with the family or with volunteers alone and shows that we need to have more bike paths. Of course we have to, and of course the family has a primary responsibility, but that's just not enough. I'm very afraid that these differences are going to intensify in the future, and I think we need to do something about this in order to get to a whole school day – where learning outcomes are also getting better. Because it's no use with more math hours if people are struggling with physical and mental distress. Then it doesn't help, it simply doesn't go in. We know from research that half an hour after you sit down and solve a complicated logical challenge, the brain works better, you solve it easier, and when you do a scan of the brain, it's just a bigger activity. So there's no doubt that this works. I want to challenge the parties to work more on this, because I think we need to see a school in the future where, somehow, we need to have physical activity every day. But that's an important point that the representative Stine Renate Håheim made – it's going to happen in the direction of a gym, or we're going to have more FYSAK, which I think suits many students much better than traditional gym.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1510	It is of interest when the Progress Party throws itself into the debate and the main argument is that policy needs to become more research-based. I'm far from it. I am in favour of a research-based approach to education policy. So a little hint could have been to use the same approach to e.g. climate policy, transport policy or other areas where the Advance Party is more dependent on the feeling of stomach than on the knowledge-based. But I'm glad that the Progress Party in school policy now seems to be landing on that line. Hanekamhaug points out that we have to stop doing the school and what works, subject to political, ideological markings, and she draws up in her post that we are mediocre, that we are doing it badly on international tests, but the thing is that we are doing it better and better on international tests – the arrows are pointing in the right direction. Then it would have been nice if the representative Hanekamhaug had gone up here and said that now it might seem that the national knowledge policy is on the right track, we're doing some good things, I want, maybe, a little more physical activity – which I agree to. What's kind of strange to me, on the other hand, is when her attack in the line shift is directed towards the cultural school, towards music, because there's another area that we know stimulates cognitive abilities or the ability to think in space and time, it's just music. If we do a quick search on the Internet, we see that the University of California, with Gordon Shaw, among others, has found that eight months of keyboard exercise for pre-school children gave a "boost" in the space thinking of IQ on 46 pst. Hmm. Interesting research! Agnes Chan, at a Chinese university, has found out that adults with music training learned more words than those without music training when it was about doing many words after each other. So here, Hanekamhaug kind of makes himself the biggest moaning staff for his own criticism. She tries to create ideological differences where she should have gone to the research, should have gone to the knowledge to look at what actually works in school, and not try to set up good actions against each other to score cheap points for those who may be against music and culture schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1519	The Council of State began its speech by noting that there was a complete rift here on the civil side. I'll refute that. The representative Marianne Aasen, the head of the committee, stood up here quite recently and said that in this area there is indeed a broad political consensus on the importance of more physical activity for children and young people, but what we disagree about is the way to the goal. I put a lot of emphasis in my article that we need to find a division of labour between what the school on the one hand can contribute to, and what the family and community on the other hand can contribute to. So I also put great emphasis on the fact that, within the school framework today, there is a considerable freedom to organize in ways that make the kids get more liberal breaks. I think there's a reason to see if even more municipalities should think smart about co-location sports facilities in the vicinity of schools, so you can use these facilities even in school time, and motivate and inspire the kids to be more active. Maybe that way you can recruit them for activity after school, by getting to know them and getting used to using these types of facilities. So I believe that what we disagree about here on the civil side is in that case the way to the goal -- not the importance of the kids being more physically active, and that it's healthful, and that it also gives us more energy to endure when we're going to sit down and read or chew math or whatever we have to agree on is important. I would also like to say that the representative Dagrun Eriksen and the undersigned used a lot of different words, but we agree on the goal. We just have a slightly different recipe on how to get to and achieve what we all want – children and young people who are more physically active. Then we've realized that when we're going to prioritize, and the money bag is limited, maybe it's not one hour of physical activity every day – as Dagrun Eriksen is right in – that might be at the top of that priority list.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1530	At the beginning of the debate today, the representative Hanekamhaug had a physical and verbal outpouring of dimensions about the state of Norwegian schools. One would think that there was a description of the situation in 2005, after the right-hand side, with Kristin Clemet at the head, had herya with the school for several years. We think there were conflicts with teachers, there were conflicts with students, and there were also conflicts with parents as a result. In the last 30 years the government party had been in charge of one – to point out: ‘ideological slumping between politically motivated reforms’. Well, the representative could have gone back 100 years in school history. She would have found three red threads that go back in all the reforms that the Labour Party has faced: Access to free education for all, not just the most prosperous, was an early requirement that has gone back in history. Better quality of education has always been an objective of all new reforms, and a relevant education that supports society’s needs. This is why Norway is in a unique situation today. But it is also worth noting that all the most important reforms that have been debated in this Chamber have largely differed from and actively voted against the right side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1549	We want to say, of course, that we are pleased with the inter-political support for the proposals of the Progress Party that we are experiencing, and we see that all the political parties here in the Chamber speak for exactly what we want, namely that we should stimulate more physical activity. It's good things to take further, because it shows that this is actually something that can become a reality in the future. In a way, it is very wonderful to hear that all parties use exactly the same argument that we in the Progress Party based our proposal on, in terms of the importance of increased physical activity. But then it is at the same time amazing and disappointing to see the lack of action and the lack of will and ability to actually implement it instead of just having good words and expressing support for what we want to achieve. All of them point out that it is actually possible for schools already today to implement physical activity in school, and that is right. The problem is that far from doing so, and then it does not help to choose not to introduce any state measures, choose not to do anything that stimulates increased physical activity in school, and choose not to address it, by pointing out that it is possible today, when far from enough. The representative, Wickholm, said that I was a little too negative in my outline of the school as it is today – it could be. Of course it's important to talk up the school, but at the same time we don't have to be afraid to actually point to the challenges we have today, and the challenges we have to solve, because that's the only way we can actually bring it forward. We see that developments in the public health perspective – the development of physical activity – go wrong. More and more children and young people are still silent, and much more so, and what action can be taken today. We can hope that the government will do as it says in this proposal, and come back to this in half a year. Unfortunately, however, the problem of this proposal may seem to be not the proposal itself, but rather the proposers behind it. I hope this is something that changes when this comes up to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1565	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1581	It is about Christmas, and in the country's schools it is now planned to mark the upcoming festival. From experience, we know that in School-Norway there is some uncertainty about how this can be done without conflicting with the desire for an inclusive school that takes into account students related to different religious and life views. Let me turn back at four years, more specifically to December 5, 2008 and the debate in Odelstinget on a new school purpose paragraph. The current Chairman of the Committee, Ms Søreide, was the case-rapporteur and presented a proposal for a new paragraph of purpose, all the parties could stand fully behind, as the rapporteur put it. I allow myself to quote a little from the post of Eriksen Soreide that time: ‘In the new purpose paragraph, values such as respect for human dignity and nature, freedom of mind, closeness, forgiveness, equivalency and solidarity are central. It is clarified in the purpose paragraph that we are to adopt today, that education in school is to be based on values of Christian heritage and tradition and humanistic heritage and tradition. These values are also expressed in different religions and ways of life and in human rights. We put in the purpose paragraph emphasis on what unites us as a society. The objective paragraph shall not merely give a snapshot of today's society. It's important to know your history and your culture to know who you are. The safer you are on your own anchorage, the more open you are to meet what is new, different and perhaps even challenging for yourself." At the time, the rapporteur stressed that the new purpose paragraph Stortinget adopted was solid and that it would be relevant and practical in the school's work. In addition, the Committee agreed on a clearer emphasis on cooperation between home and school and wanted to make parents visible as an important player, a valuable and close partner to the school. The 2008 debate focused on the fact that the cultural heritage is not a static one. It develops and changes. But a living cultural heritage depends on building on something, building on the notions, thoughts and roots that have shaped it. If it doesn't make sense to talk about cultural heritage. At the same time, it is important that the purpose paragraph specifies values which are not date stamped and which should be as good in the present as in the future. In the debate on a new purpose paragraph, the Right also underlined the importance of preserving the national cultural heritage. In today’s society, a purpose paragraph must both meet the need for a safe value anchoring of the students and stress the opportunities and challenges we have in terms of diversity and pluralism. The increased diversity of society makes new demands to live in mutual respect and tolerance. It's just in this kind of context that it's important to know its history. There's a misunderstanding of tolerance if you're constantly working to deplete your cultural heritage. It only creates increased confusion of value in society. In a pluralistic society, it is important to know one's own identity and belonging, because then one has much better prerequisites for dealing with the new. As surely as it goes against Christmas, we hear about schools that are uncertain as to whether it is compatible with the purpose paragraph and a diverse and multicultural student group to continue the tradition of Christmas service. We've even heard about schools that have replaced church visits and Jesus with rites and Christmas parties to avoid troubling in the salad. This may indicate that there is a need to create greater security and awareness of what the new purpose paragraph actually provides, but also to clarify the limits of what the teaching of the RLE subject can and cannot contain. I have noticed with great satisfaction that the Education Directorate on its website has recently published information that says that the school can carry out religious services as part of its general cultural and traditional communication, while clarifying that this cannot be part of the RLE subject. Furthermore, it is emphasised that schools wishing to arrange or participate in worship should anchor this with their parents. The event must be announced and the school must offer non-discriminatory exemption schemes through equivalent alternative offers. It's positive that the directorate is in the forefront of information. However, the need for such information is a symptom that the new purpose paragraph is not well enough under the skin of the Norwegian school. I have tried to investigate what kind of information about the new purpose paragraph that has been sent to the school, without finding anything in particular. The general part of the curriculum emphasises that the school should train people at once. The right believes that the circulation of value is a central part of this mission. The importance of dissemination based on the basic ideas and values that unite us as societies is about how to equip new generations to provide a secure and conscious foundation for their lives and for their role as fellow human and social citizens in Norway. A school that is insecure in its dissemination and, in the spirit of caution, binds itself may be an undesirable obstacle to students being challenged and also informed of the religious and life-seeing diversity in Norway. Unfortunately, in Norway we experience trends in racism, harassment and stigmatisation of people based on religion. We are constantly getting new examples of how this is expressed in the case of Jews and Muslims. This is unacceptable and requires us as a society to stand up and distance. Studies in Norway have revealed anti-Semitism attitudes which may be difficult to imagine, and therefore the three-year project launched to combat anti-Semitism and racism is very important. We must take a clear distance from attitudes and actions that affect individuals and religious groups in our country. But projects are projects. Therefore, it is so important that the daily work at school is firmly based on the values on which the new purpose paragraph is based. As a shared arena, the school is an important place for bridge construction and for preventing intolerance, which can often be explained by a lack of knowledge of each other's religions, life views and cultural background. This is why the Right believes school owners, school leaders and teachers need to become even more aware of the role that the school can and should play in order to create insight, respect and understanding of how different religions and views of life are practiced in our society. In this way, the school can help lay the foundation for the individual student's formation and equip the students with a positive value set for life. In the 2008 committee resolution, when the school’s new purpose paragraph was adopted, an overall committee, on the one hand, fixed the need for a secure value anchoring for students and, on the other hand, the challenges and opportunities of today’s multicultural society. At the same time, the then Education Committee underlined the importance of the purpose paragraph expressing a set of values that should be able to conclude as far as possible, irrespective of religious, cultural or national ties. Right does not accuse the school, but we want a better follow-up of the school at this point. We believe that a more competent school, which makes it clearer to identify values you can end up with, regardless of religious, cultural or national origin, will be a better school for all students. On the right, the new school’s purpose paragraph is well adapted to a more diverse and multicultural Norway. The school shall, as the Right sees it, also have the opportunity to continue Christian traditions in Norwegian society. But at the same time, it is important to stress that it means that the inclusive school is obliged to devote similar attention to other religious and life-vision festivals and brand days, when it falls naturally. There can be no doubt about Storting's ambitions for the new purpose paragraph, and that it was a demanding road the Norwegian school would go up. Therefore, it is also important that we take an interest in whether practices in school have become what the Stortinge provided, and we need to ask if the school has received the necessary guidance to meet the expectations of the Stortinge. The right considers that there is a basis for saying that the school can become safer in its practice of the purpose paragraph. In a number of areas, useful guides have been developed to support teachers and school leaders. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether she will consider equipping Norwegian school with a guide on how the modernised purpose paragraph can be met and practised in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1633	The broad agreement in the United Kingdom when the purpose of training was adopted in 2008, underlines that the objective is based on values that we can all gather about as a society, across political positions and interests. The school and kindergarten are perhaps the most important venues for sharing and learning mutual respect and understanding. Thus, through school and kindergarten work, we have an important responsibility to create a society of common values, where everyone can live together regardless of cultural background, social background and religious background. Not least in our time, we are reminded of how important this is. At regular intervals, we are confronted with extreme groups who are in opposition to the values of society and will fight against what we as society stand together for. Strengthening the school in its work on value sharing is therefore a broad and preventive work against extremism and hatred and for what we, as a society, want to do. The representative Aspaker points to an important challenge that the school is facing and that it needs to find good solutions in its daily work. It shall take into account both the needs of students for safe value anchoring and at the same time point to the challenges and opportunities of today's multicultural societies. Students' background, parents' background and the community will help them to understand how this is to be done locally at each school. To this end, the formulation of training is based on the basic values of Christian and humanistic heritage, which can justify the invitation of schools to participate in school gods and the marking of Christian festivals. I would also like to point out how this has been done in the RLE subject, where Christian knowledge has a quantitatively greater share, without the subject giving room for preaching or qualitative discrimination. The values of the school have been clarified in the general section of the Knowledge Charter, in the principles of training and in the curricula of the subjects. Here, in my opinion, it is very good to see how well the school’s value base is anchored. As an example, let me quote, randomly chosen from the Norwegian curriculum, the purpose of the subject to show how values and value sharing are concretely embodied in the curricula: ‘A primary objective of training in Norwegian throughout initial training is linguistic self-confidence and security in its own culture as a basis for developing identity, respect for other cultures, active participation in society and lifelong learning. The Norwegian language is established in the field of tension between historical and contemporary, national and global. Viewing Norwegian language and culture from a historical and national perspective can provide students with insight and understanding of the society they are part of. International perspectives in the Norwegian field can contribute to the development of cultural understanding, tolerance and respect for people from other cultures.’» Schools and teachers deal with and use the curriculum as an important tool in everyday school work. I therefore see it as giving clear guidance from the national level on how the values from the purpose of the training are to be communicated to the students. Nevertheless, I can understand that the representative of Aspaker may be concerned that all schools are safe in their practice of the purpose of the training, which she makes concrete reference to schools that do not choose to mark Christian festivals, for example. by not participating in Christmas services. I wonder if the enquiries that the representative of Aspaker has received are perhaps somewhat anecdotal. My impression is, after the guidance on the Directorate-General for Education's websites, that the schools have found a good balance with regard to how to mark this and that it is reasonably clear what to do with the legislation. The Education Directorate has published information in recent years. It's not like it's only happened in the last year. This is information that has been out there, I think, since 2007, on the basis on which schools can arrange or participate in religious services and advise on their implementation. The information indicates that the school can carry out religious services as part of its general cultural and traditional service. If schools choose to abstain from such participation, they may have quite natural reasons, such as the composition of the student group, parents' wishes, etc. We have no studies that explicitly assess how the school practices the purpose of the training. However, we have some indications as to whether the question raised by the representative of Aspaker is a major and ongoing problem in the school. The International ICCS Survey monitors students’ understanding of democracy, including: on how they are prepared for their role as active citizens. The survey shows good results for Norwegian school. Norwegian students have good democratic readiness, they have good knowledge of, skills and attitudes to democracy. What is of particular interest in the question of how to practice the purpose paragraph is that a very high proportion of students say they experience fair, interested and listening teachers. This indicates that Norwegian teachers generally have high confidence in their students in the teaching and dissemination of value issues. Therefore, there is reason to commend many Norwegian teachers and schools for their efforts in the field of democracy training and dissemination. Teacher training is important if we are to continue to have teachers who are conscious of their role as value brokers. The theme is well taken care of in the new primary school teacher training, including in the framework plan. states that the candidate should be able to ‘stimulate democratic understanding, democratic participation and critical reflection, adapted to the current class step’. Let me point out some measures that support the schools in their work of achieving the purpose of the daily training. The Ministry of Knowledge supports the Council of Europe's work on training in human rights, democratic citizenship and intercultural dialogue. Norway, together with the Council of Europe, has also set up a European Training Centre for Democratic Preparedness and Intercultural Dialogue, the European Wergeland Centre, which we support with 6.5 million. kr every year. The Centre’s work target group is teachers, teachers and others involved in the field work. Funding has also been provided for the so-called Dembra project, which aims to strengthen the school's work against racism and anti-Semitism. This is a concrete follow-up to the report It may happen again. The project is run by the Holocaust Centre, the ILS at the University of Oslo and the European Wergeland Centre. It will be exciting to see the results of this project. Dissemination is a work we never do in school. It must be an integral part of the day-to-day work of the school, as the curriculum also expresses in general terms, in principles of training and in curricula. For this reason, I will continue to consider how the work of strengthening the school's work on the realisation of the purpose of the training is to be done. I would like, among other things: look at how this could become a theme in the planned paper on the Knowledge promise presented by the government in 2013. This is the theme there. I would also, of course, like to consider the proposal that the representative of Aspaker now raises, namely to provide a separate guide to the schools on how this work is to be done. But I would like to have the opportunity to look it up against other topics, which I also know are interested in strengthening from the School of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1673	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for the answer. I think we're going to agree, as the Council of State was also involved, that there are some currents in society that have to be taken seriously, which make it even more important than ever to equip the future relative with a basis of value and the possibility of reflection, and to stand up and resist when others are treated in a way that is unacceptable. It is important to prevent hatred and extremism. It is important to develop respect and understanding. All of this is the school an important player for if we want to create a good and inclusive society in Norway. So even though this isn't an area of major political contradictions, rather the opposite, I think it's important that the Storting sends out some clear signals that this is actually something we're fully behind, from the extreme right to the extreme left, and that we're very clear that we want the school to take this work even more seriously. Then I want to go back to what the committee was concerned about when the new purpose paragraph was adopted, namely the place of the parents. I think it's a great potential to involve Norwegian parents in other arenas in school than what often parents get involved in, and which you might think is a little debatable. This is, in fact, a debate and a challenge for parents to face, in order to create a more interesting school-home collaboration. And when we know how important role models parents are for their children, it's very important that you do things on the same channels – the school on the one hand and the parents on the other. Right and I have great faith that more dialogue can also be part of the good cause's service. I'm not worried about the RLE education. I think it's found a form that's very decent. It's quiet now. At the same time, as I said, it is important that the purpose paragraph is understood in such a way that we are able to take care of what is our own cultural heritage and the traditions of the Norwegian society, which we want to take into account in the future. I am very pleased that the Council of State now says that she and the government will assess whether this is a topic that can be addressed in the big news coming to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1688	There's really a reason to breathe a little bit and think that there's a great value in Norwegian society that there can be such a calm and respectful debate about the value base of the Norwegian school and kindergartens, as it can in the Norwegian metropolitan area. It should be of great value to those who have their everyday life in school, whether it be teachers or students. I think it is of great value to parents that there is quite a consensus on what kind of value base the school should provide, and that there should be room for diversity, but that one is also very clear on what is the starting point and the historical basis for this. It's not like this in every country. We should appreciate that that's the way it is. This interpellation gives you an opportunity to reflect a little bit about how you can enhance the ownership of the very purpose section, which is very important that you have around in the individual school. I see that it's an important part of the basis for this interpellation. I fully agree with the representative of Aspaker that school-home cooperation should definitely deal with one of the most important issues, namely the value base on which the school should base itself. And it's absolutely important that parents are invited to participate in the discussion, reflection and perception of how this should be practiced. I think that in many areas of the country, where the student groups and parents groups can be quite complex, these are discussions and reflections you have to take almost all the time, because there are different religious festivals and different traditions etc. But where there may be a more uniform composition of the student base and the parent base, there may be a need to reflect a little bit more around it, because then not necessarily comes that kind of challenges of its own, through their own experiences in everyday life. Then I'm very concerned that we can take the discussion of racism and antisemitism seriously in school. There are some undercurrents that can very easily live a little bit in their own rooms. It can be in their own discussion clubs on Facebook or on other websites, which not everyone has access to. Sometimes we get some real surprises about what kind of attitudes and expressions it's possible to come along, which are discriminatory and offensive to minorities. I've had some such surprises about antisemitism, but also racism. It could be in groupings that we can't say just some are small and odd. They may suddenly have echoes in large sections of the population. This is also a very important task for the school's circulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1699	Thank you very much to the interpellant, representative Aspaker, for the opportunity to discuss a very important topic that we know involves many, especially now that it is getting closer to Christmas. I think it's a strength that there's a broad consensus about the value base for the school. The debate that has been so far shows that we are quite in agreement here. Norwegian society has undergone major changes in recent decades. From being a relatively homogeneous population, we've become a multicultural society. It's a basic good, it enriches us as a nation, but it also gives us some challenges. School has changed as society changed. With the transition to the RLE subject, which we are going to have a good opportunity to discuss in an interpellation later today, it has become more focused on using the subject as a bridge builder between different religions and life views. That's good. In Norway, there is also a broad consensus that the Norwegian single school should be an inclusive school where different people will meet. Such a school should contribute to a good community, while at the same time recognising and understanding that we are different. The new purpose paragraph places emphasis on what binds us together, while at the same time instructing the school to respect diversity in faith and thought. As has been evident today, the new purpose paragraph does not prevent the holding of Christmas services or the going to church. The principle of neutrality does not mean keeping away from everything that has to do with religion, or leaving content that is controversial untouched. The purpose paragraph states that students should be given insight and understanding, and then going to church, visiting a synagogue or visiting a mosque may be a natural part of that work. I don't think many people have any harm in going to church even if you're not religious, but it should never be up to the majority to define what the minority should feel comfortable with or not. That is why there is an exemption scheme and an adapted training principle also in the new purpose paragraph. As both the inter-pellant and the State Councils pointed out, the Education Directorate has for several years – at the latest on Twitter now – given advice on how to do this with school-godly services. This calls on the school to cooperate with parents and to provide good information. I think it's important to create an understanding of what's going to happen. Services of God shall not be part of the RLE subject but shall be part of the General Cultural and Traditional Service. It is also about recognising the historical role that the Church has had and still has in Norwegian society. As the interpellant was about, it's about creating a good circulation of much more than the debate on school gods. For example, this is a case in point. that the school should enable students to gain insight into the holidays and parties of other religions. I believe that religious and cultural understanding is becoming increasingly important in our society. I have great faith – even after this debate and the answers given by the Council of State – that it is possible for the school to find good solutions to this kind of thing. But we can always get better at value. The last year, with many of the debates going on, especially online debates, shows how important it is that we have a strong circulation of value in school. I have to say that I am very pleased that Norwegian students are cutting so high on the understanding of democracy and the ability to cooperate. It may not be those tests that always get the biggest headlines in the paper, but the last year has shown us how important it is that Norwegian students have a strong democratic spine. This is a debate that is already under way – and will also come a long way in the future. I am pleased that we have ample opportunity to discuss this with the media and an inclusive school when the big news about the promise of knowledge is presented. I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1718	First, I would like to thank the representative for promoting an interpellation on this important topic. We have a lot to be proud of in Norway, not least by the way we relate to being Norwegian. Everyone needs a secure anchoring of values, both as a child and as an adult. All of us living in Norway should have the opportunity to learn about important traditions and values. The Training Act provides for training to contribute to the deepening of knowledge and understanding of our common national cultural heritage. The Nordics have a tradition of greater outward pride and self-identification than many others have. The 17th May train is an excellent example of that. Here all children – regardless of their parents’ cultural background – are celebrating Norway’s freedom, the Constitution and Norwegian values. Similarly, the Christmas and Easter season markings function in an open and inclusive way. It's when values and traditions become exclusive that they become dangerous. I would like to stress that participation in specific religious markings, such as those of the European Parliament, is a matter of priority. Divine service, of course, should be optional for the students, as several others have been here before, but for the Advance Party it is important that those who will be allowed to attend such events, and that it is a natural and cultural part of the Norwegian school. One important point for the Progress Party is that the education system must be based on the primary responsibility of parents for the education of their children through parental rights. We want to oppose a policy that transcends or reduces parental rights. Unfortunately, we are familiar with cases where schools have refused to implement Christmas markings and Christmas services, without having discussed this with their parents. Unfortunately, it also seems increasingly to be an ever-increasing challenge that some schools will drop the marking of Christian festivals and important Norwegian cultural markers. The last thing I registered in school was that a paper that is used for reading at school, where Easter was a theme, actually didn't contain a single word about why we celebrate Easter. In the paper it was said that Easter is a time when many like to be on the mountain and go in nature, or paint eggs. The publisher first admitted, according to our country on 25 October this year, that they found it problematic to write about a Christian celebration because students in a class have different beliefs. Luckily, they withdrew this and said clearly that they would take into account the importance of Christianity in the next edition. The Training Act says there will be cooperation between home and school. Good parental cooperation is an important resource for the school to strengthen the development of a good learning environment and to create good learning outcomes. Cooperation between home and school is a central principle of initial training as laid down in the Training Act. We often see that the principal or teachers run over their parents and cancel Norwegian Christmas traditions in school. For the Advancement Party, the value of Christianity and its traditions and activities is important to convey to all children. Formation is an important part of the school. Students shall develop their personality, character and independence. Cultural education means that students should get to know Norwegian culture, language and history, and in Norway the Christian and humanist heritage stands in a special position. School legislation provides for a general dissemination of culture and tradition. Here – according to the view of the Progress Party – traditional Christian markings must also be included. For many students and parents, the Christmas service is an important and good sign of faith and culture. The Progress Party believes it is time that the Council of State is somewhat clearer that Christian markings can take place in school, and that the Norwegian Christmas celebration with its traditions is part of the school's activities in December. I actually want to welcome these activities and stress the importance of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1737	The current school purpose paragraph, as mentioned earlier today, has been part of the Training Act since its revision in 2008. An overall committee then agreed to update the legal text in such a way that the purpose of the school would be more consistent with parental rights and a diverse, multicultural society. A purpose paragraph shall address both the need for safe value anchoring for school activities and the opportunities and challenges we have in a diverse and multicultural society. The central party believes that it is misunderstood tolerance if the answer to diversity and pluralism is to work to deplete our cultural heritage. It will only create increased confusion of value in society. In a diverse society, it is important to know one’s identity and belonging — and leave it a platform for dealing with the new. We want a value anchor that ensures that as a society we have something that stands firm, something that gives security. It will give us courage and security to stand upright in changing times where we can experience strong influence. We need a anchoring that puts us in the history of time and space, but where some values survive us—values that gather us about something greater than us and that make life meaningful. The objective paragraph ensures that the school is anchored in such a way. It's about Christmas, as others have pointed out, and as the interpellant picks up, there are many schools that have long traditions of worship for school students and employees, before the school takes Christmas-free. Many people hold this tradition high and feel that it gives students a fine opportunity to become acquainted with the contents of Christmas, hymns and church traditions. I think that's good. The school can carry out religious services as part of its general culture and tradition. But the service cannot be part of the RLE subject. The RLE subject shall only be knowledge-providing – non-preferential. No one can be required to participate in a jubilee service — whether organised as part of the school day — but the Training Act does not specifically prohibit events where there is religious practice. I therefore believe that Christmas service is a fine opportunity to make the kids familiar with this cultural tradition. The 2007 European Court of Human Rights ruling against the CRL subject and the opinion, with criticism from the 2004 UN Committee on Human Rights, do not address the issue of jubilee services directly but provide clear guidance for such activities in mandatory training. The service does not need to appear as a semester’s end, for a graduation should be a gathering for all students at school. I believe that, of course, and in line with how this is practised around. The most common thing is that each class, step or school has its graduation events, which include all students – that it should be invited to attend worship in advance or afterwards. Taking up with parents in advance what is school practice, and briefing them on, for example: God services to which a child is invited must be considered to be a good practice. It is important to provide good information about events in good time at home so that each family can decide on the event and whether the child should participate or not. I think it is nice that the representative Aspaker addresses this matter, now that the schools are about to enter the Advent season. It provides an opportunity to support those schools that still believe that Christmas service is part of our cultural heritage, which all in our multicultural society should be aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1756	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. One of the most important work we have done in the field of school in recent years is to agree on a new purpose paragraph. The piece of work that was done at the time – where all parties, from the Christian People's Party to the SV, were able to agree on a direction of the school's values – is respected. By agreeing on a text, we made peace around something that had been an inflamed theme in school. The Christian People's Party does not want Norway to be neutral in terms of key elements of our cultural heritage. One of the school's tasks is to manage a national cultural heritage to be shared by all children and young people. It is about building up and developing a common cultural identity, while showing openness and tolerance to different cultural and religious groups and individuals. Should the school be able to manage the national cultural heritage, a clear purpose paragraph is important. The challenge we are discussing today is not to agree on a yes or no to a Christian purpose paragraph. The challenge today is how schools can make greater use of the tool that the purpose paragraph is. And here I have missed a greater commitment from the government on how the school is really going to use this purpose paragraph. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the purpose paragraph, the general part of the Knowledge Lift and the eleven points of the Educational plaque shall not become some sort of forgotten Husboard. The five basic skills of the curriculum must be included in all subjects and must be committed to all teachers, we must in practice – and on a broad scale – constantly update the Christian heritage and tradition and the common values of the Paragraph of Purpose in everyday life. We must make them the large and committed joint project of the local school – ‘respect for human dignity and nature’, ‘freedom of spirit’, ‘love’, ‘forgiveness’, ‘equity and solidarity’. We therefore believe that the promise of knowledge must now be backed up by a value pledge – therefore I will challenge the Minister of Knowledge to much more strongly lift the importance of the school's purpose paragraph. As many people have been about today: it has gradually become a small annual event in these times that there are doubts about how the school should be able to mark the upcoming Christmas celebration. The purpose and effect of this can be to create insecurity, and unfortunately in some cases it has been successful. There are examples of schools that have refused to sing Christmas songs with Christian content. Others have strong debates about whether it's possible to participate in Christmas games. The shock example is probably the school as of fear of stumbling someone, changed the name of the Christmas ball – to the school dance. Those who suffer most from this are students with a minority background. They are often pushed forward as the reason why one has to be careful to mark Christian festivals in school, but the truth is that there are few who view this as a problem. Minister of Culture Hadia Tajik said it like this in our country: ‘Keeping children away from Norwegian churches before Christmas can lead to religious illiteracy.’ Some have claimed that school gods cannot be arranged because of the new purpose paragraph. I am glad that the Council of State and this hall state that there is of course no obstacle. As one of the participants in the negotiations when we negotiated this purpose paragraph, I can state that there is nothing in the new purpose paragraph that would make it forbidden to organise school gods. On the contrary, the change the Stortinget made gives a good anchor to continue with this tradition. Even the various Swedish ministers of knowledge have been exemplary on this issue. Soljell said, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘There is nothing in a new purpose paragraph that prevents the continuation of school gods’.» At the same time, it is important that all parents know safety against school. For this reason, it was important to get the school to respect the individual’s convictions, which is why the exemption clause in the Training Act is clear. No one shall be forced to go to service, and good alternatives shall be made for those who do not want to participate. Schools can be sure that tradition doesn't have to be broken, and parents can be safe to send their children to school to something they know what is. This is probably an example of how in our public debates we demonstrate a great deal of uncertainty in dealing with questions about the place of religion in society. I think that the Council of State should have the honour of clarifying that it is legal – and even a little nice – to have school gods in connection with Christmas, but that there is also a great and good statement that this is to be distinguished from the RLE subject and that respect for parents' differences in this matter is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1784	I want to thank you for what I have experienced as a very good debate, and I stress what I said in my previous post – that I think it is important that the Storting is clear, and that it is a strength that we can agree on this point. I would like to thank all those who have spoken. I think that each of them has supported that this is a topic that should not be forgotten, but that should be addressed – keep the tab high on the importance of school as the arena to create and build identity and values for Norway in the future. There is little doubt that Christian humanistic values are core values that stand up in Norwegian society. Then, before Christmas, church visits must also be entirely in line with the intention of the new purpose paragraph, as it is designed. We are to be proud of our Christian cultural heritage, and we are to be part of and build on it, even though the Norwegian everyday life now is gradually characterized by a greater religious diversity and diversity of life. There have been several exchanges of value and value. Then, as the Council of State also pointed out, School-Norway looks different depending on where you are. But it's no less important for that reason to also think of us as citizens of society moving around the Norwegian community, and it's important to equip all students with a Norway that is more diverse and more multicultural than it ever has been. I am concerned that we must continue to help build a stronger alliance between the school and the parents. There have also been more people here. I think there's a great potential there for the school to get even better back coverage and even better strength in its way of building values and identity on Norwegian students. So I believe that knowledge gives insight, and that knowledge can demystify what seems foreign. That's why it's so important that the school challenges the students and makes sure they get insight into each other's culture and religion. I would therefore like more students to be more curious about each other's differences, and that fewer students ask for exemptions, but participate in each other's arenas to become better acquainted with what the other stands for. The Bondevik II government had a project in 2002–2005 called Values in School Life. It was a value mobilization project that I would like the Council of State to look to when making the potion message – see if it could be an idea after getting a new purpose paragraph in primary school in 2008. There is a need to put this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1800	I would also like to thank you for a good and nuanced debate, which expresses a broad consensus on the school's purpose paragraph, that Christian faith is an important part of our historical heritage, and the desire to be curious and also to have knowledge of the faith of other people. It makes me come to an episode when I met a Muslim mother on the trick at Grünerløkka a few years ago. She had four children, and the two oldest went to the Christian High School. She sat there with hijab, we talked about our kids, and then I said, "Are they going to the Christian Gymnasium?" "Yes, yes," she says, "we're all children of Abraham." She thought it was interesting that they went to the Christian Gymnasium, and there were the next two. It seems to me that there are many who have – what to say – a tolerance, an interest and perhaps also greater security towards believers than to a society that they experience as low-value or religiously oriented. I think that's some interesting dimensions to take along. In any case, I believe that everyone had had a very great interest and benefit from seeing the inside of a mosque, seeing the inside of a church, seeing the inside of the Sikh temple of Alna, or a Buddhist temple, for that matter. It's a lot of a teacher when you see how others practice their religious beliefs, and there's also a lot one can find of common property. I think the more knowledge and knowledge you have, the better. So at least it's my impression that there's much greater clarity in School-Norway now than it was just a few years ago about what's the framework around holding a school goddess service. The parents shall be informed; it shall be possible to ask for exemption and it shall not be the joint graduation of all children in a school semester. With some very clear and clear frameworks, there are now very many schools offering a religious mark in some form at the end of school. This I believe has gradually begun to fall into place, so that there is much greater security and security around it in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1813	Thus, Stortinget has processed case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1829	Today, I will begin by pointing to some basic prerequisites for this debate that I know the Council of State and I are fully sharing. The Council of State and the undersigned fully agree that the main single factor in providing the best possible learning outcomes for school students is the teacher. That's a good start. We also fully agree that the diversity of culture, religion and outlook on life that is currently among students and employees in the Norwegian school is an exciting starting point for learning from each other and from each other. In this work too, the teacher is a crucial resource. This is the background of my interpellation today. As we also discussed in the previous case, there have been major changes in school teaching and religion. The old Christian subject is gone and replaced by a more holistic subject – religion, view of life and ethics. This was obviously a proper grip, which opened up for all religions and life's vision to have a natural place in teaching. The debate on the extent to which different religions should share, and how much our Christian heritage should share, does not belong in this matter – we have just had – but my claim is that in order to gain understanding and respect across the boundaries of religion and view of life, we must also have much more knowledge of our own identity in this area. The RLE subject is therefore very important. As a father of primary school children, I see that diversity often falls naturally to students and allows them to understand the relationships of other students with the traditions and attitudes we are accustomed to in many ways. I also want to add that it's obviously important and right to build up this knowledge in the children, because it has to be said that there are a lot of adults here going on as bad examples. Dealing with this subject well in school requires safe, wise and knowledgeable teachers. RLE has been part of teacher training to address this need, but, in parallel with increasing school diversity and increasing societal diversity challenges, the subject has been abolished as a compulsory subject in teacher training. The results of this also proved to be pretty fast. At teacher training in Finnmark, RLE is no longer a choice, and at the University of Oslo and Akershus, the number of people taking RLE has been reduced from 320 in 2010 to 80 in 2011. The National Council for Christian Knowledge and Religious Science is deeply concerned about the developments we see. They also point out that there is a disparity between a society that needs a greater knowledge and understanding of religion and outlook than ever before, and that fewer teachers are trained to do so. Signals are clear, and if no action is taken to correct this, we will go into a period of inadequacy in school, which in turn will result in a lack of competence, respect and understanding among the children. It is not difficult to imagine that this can create major challenges, and it is in any case not a worthy follow-up to the building of competence we want for our children. We want children who not only naturally relate to diversity, but who understand and respect the same diversity, and who are safe on their own. It is important to listen to the national technical council, which warns against the negative recruitment of the subject. At the same time, both they and other key actors see opportunities and some positive ones that are important to take with them when the government now needs to address the situation. Many suggest that those who now choose depression in RLE have a greater interest in the subject they have chosen, and thus naturally have a very good starting point for further work. In view of this, it is natural to ask the Council of State how the Department will in a good way stimulate this depression and what strategy the Council of State has to take to ensure such education throughout the country. Alternative courses in the field have also received increased attention. On the basis of this, the Theological Faculty of Society has entered into a partnership with the University of Eastfold on a teaching programme in religion and society and has wanted to establish 20 places of study. They have not been satisfied with funding for this, and since the institution already has very low basic funding from the State, they do not see themselves able to further develop the offer without support for the part they perform in cooperation with the Higher Education College in Eastfold. However, there is no doubt that the education will get applicants, and that this is precisely directed at the lack of knowledge we are now discussing. Will the Council of State specifically follow up with funding for new offers, which can provide us with professionally qualified teachers in the RLE field? We have a good school, we have many good teachers, and during this period we have had great attention to the quality and learning outcomes of education. That's a good lead. It is therefore natural for us in the Right to raise that question also about RLE education. This important area deserves the attention of the government when it comes from a professional perspective, and it is natural for the Storting to challenge the Council of State on what measures can be taken to correct the alarming developments. I therefore look forward to hearing what the Council of State and the Department have been thinking, and to hearing the commitment of the other parties to the Stortinget in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1846	The representative Harberg addresses important elements of the school: how knowledge is the basis for multicultural and multireligious coexistence, and the need for new generations through school to gain good religious knowledge. Here I fully agree with Harberg. The importance of knowledge and competence for an inclusive school can hardly be overestimated. St.meld. No 11 for 2008-2009, The Teacher – The role and education, underlines the diversity of students. It is necessary that all teachers have knowledge, skills and attitudes in order to meet this diversity in their teaching and in their subjects. New primary school teachers were started in 2010. The plan for these training courses consists of a framework plan and national guidelines. Here, the leaders of St.meld are made concrete. No 11th@item: Among other things, the plant describes: the learning outcomes for candidates to meet a diverse student mass in a multicultural and multilingual society. In the new elementary school teacher education, the government, in the light of the decision of the Storting, is placing greater freedom of choice on the part of students. Students are far more able to study the subjects in which they are most interested and in which they want to teach. This will help to increase the quality of school education. It is true that RLE is not a compulsory subject in the new teacher training courses, but an elective subject like most other subjects. On the other hand, the new and expanded pedagogical subject, PEL, is mandatory. There are 60 study credits, while general teacher education had 30 study credits. The subject has a very school-relevant and practical content, precisely in order for teacher training to be more effective than before in training good teachers for an inclusive and diverse school. The PEL subject covers themes such as: diversity of pupils development and learning in different social, religious and cultural contexts democracy development of identity mutual tolerance and respect for multicultural understanding, etc. Many of these themes reflect in general the curriculum of the Knowledge Lift. Each student shall have a learning outcomes in all these areas, and the fully-educated elementary school teachers will have this competence in their luggage into the teaching process and into their teaching in all subjects. We have set up a separate follow-up group for primary school teacher training to assist the department with the introduction of the new teacher training courses. This year, the Follow-up Group is working especially with a multicultural perspective. How are the requirements of the framework plan being followed up on institutions? They look in particular at the role of PEL in primary school teacher education. So it's this pedagogical subject, and not the RLE subject, that is to make sure that teachers have the competence to meet and teach the diversity of students. The subject of education and training shall form the basis for all other subjects. I trust that the candidates from primary school teacher education will be better equipped to meet today's diverse student mass than the general teacher was. Therefore, the competence of RLE is not crucial to whether the candidates from the new educations become good teachers for a multicultural and diverse student mass. Of course, the RLE subject must, now as before, take care of the specific knowledge of different religions and views of life. It is important that we have enough candidates with the skills to teach in this subject, as in all other subjects, at school. However, the RLE subject is a small subject in primary school, which amounts to only 7.5 pst. by the hours of the students. The number of RLE qualified teachers should be seen in this respect. Teachers' selection in recent years does not indicate a decline in interest in the RLE subject. The number of teacher students who want to spend at least 30 credits in RLE seems to stay at about the same level as before. The question of the scope of RLE as an opt-out in teacher training must be considered in the light of the requirements for the competence of teachers in school. In June 2012, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the Training Act to introduce requirements on relevant competences in the field of education as of 1 January 2014, in order to help teachers have relevant training in all subjects in which they teach. This comes as an addition to today's skills requirement, which is linked to the employment itself. The specific competence requirements will be regulated in a regulation which will first be consulted. However, the legislative proposal gives signals on the content of the proposed regulation. The content of the rules to be consulted has not been definitively established. The question of whether formal competence — at least 30 study credits — should be required for the teaching of the RLE subject at the youth level is one of the questions raised at the hearing, together with the question of whether a number of other subjects should be subject to competence requirements. I would also like to highlight the employer's responsibility for the school's adequate competence in e.g.: RLE, cf., Training Act § 10-8. School owners and principals must make the needs of the school visible. They must ask for and recruit teachers with the desired professional skills. They are responsible for developing the skills of staff to gain new skills in school. And they have to work to keep the skills that already exist. In the case of new places of study, these are normally awarded either as strategic sites where the institutions themselves prioritise their use, or as education and training areas. For example, neither the Stortinget nor the Ministry of the Interior directs study places for special elective subjects in the following areas: teacher training. Institutions use the study places as they deem it appropriate within the overall framework defined by the Stortinget or the Ministry, and in terms of search and their own professional resources. I don't see any reason to change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1902	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Yeah, there's a lot of exciting happening in the new teacher training, and it's going to be exciting to see how it works. I think it's very important to distinguish between having a pedagogical basis and knowledge to teach in a diverse environment – with a diversity of cultures and religions – and teaching in the RLE field, because there are two different things. One of the intentions of taking up this interpellation is that when a new situation arises, we in the Right believe that it is important that we, as the overall authority, also ensure that education is adjusted according to the new situation. With regard to what the State Council has now said, it is important to point out the teacher training teachers, who will also provide this new subject with this RLE knowledge. In fact, the National Council for Christian Knowledge and Religious Science has also looked at this, and they are concerned about the content of the PEL subject. So there's going to be a lot of three letters here. But they are concerned about RLE's place in this teaching and have given a signal that they believe that pedagogics have become the main focus of the new subject. I think it's important to take that concern into account while I'm glad that the Council of State shows that this is being followed, and that one should evaluate it. That's good. So it's going to be exciting to see what the result is that. However, the basic knowledge of the RLE subjects – both at the teachers and at the teacher’s teachers – must continue to have a focus. So applicants who want depression, who want basic knowledge of it, should be eligible for study places.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1909	I think it's wise to keep the way we now distribute study places around to the institutions, and that we don't go into – from either the Stortinget or the department – to find out what kind of selection courses you're going to have. I am also quite sure that this new PEL subject – that is, the subject of pedagogics and student knowledge – contains more of what teachers need in order to be able to stand up for good attitudes and to achieve multicultural and multi-religious cooperation around in many classrooms, which is a very important part of this. I would like to contribute to our careful monitoring of that competence in this subject, because the RLE subject is going to be a subject with more acute competence in the multi-religious and life-seeking. That's what the content of this subject is. The discussion, of which the interpellation of the representative Svein Harberg is part, namely the desire to make the school's value a little clearer, is something I've been concerned about for a long time. We have some values in Norwegian school that many other countries are looking at in this regard: a purpose paragraph that is inclusive, but also a view that Norwegian school has a social mandate that goes far beyond preparing students just for work. The school will prepare students for life itself – including the democratic and essential value base of our society. I'm taking with me the questions raised in this interpellation. We have a follow-up group that is now going through the experience we have with the new elementary school teacher training so far. At the hearing, we have questions about the competence requirements of 30 study credits for teaching in RLE at the youth level. It's part of the things that we're going to follow forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1918	Thank you very much to the interpellant for raising another important debate in the Great Britain on religion, life views and ethics. The representative Harberg points to what is at the very heart of creating an inclusive school, namely knowledge. Understanding religion, view of life and ethics is becoming more and more important to understanding our society and to respect each other's inequalities. So I think we've come a long way to Norwegian school -- at least since I went to school myself -- and a lot has gotten much better. The school is extremely important because it is involved in forming some common values and attitudes. It's especially important when we see what's happening around us. We see that the conflict, which is now taking place in the Middle East, also causes the debates on religion at home to rage. We know that there are extreme people here at home who push religion forward in their struggle – both for their own religion and against other religions. Every day we can read racist and hateful comments in the debate columns of the online newspapers. Many of them are targeting Muslims. Last summer the municipality of Oslo presented a survey showing that Jewish children also experience much more heat than other children in the Norwegian school. So we've come a long way, I mean, at school, but we also have a way to go. That is why I am very pleased that the representative Harberg gives us the opportunity to discuss it today. As a society, we should not accept prejudice, racism or hatred on the basis of religion or ethnicity. Therefore, the single school – as a common meeting place – is more important than ever. The school is an important arena to develop respect and tolerance for the inequalities while building up under everything that actually unites us. The work on addressing these challenges needs to be carried out in many areas. But there is no doubt that the school is one of the most important arenas, and that the teachers thus become the most important actors in that work. Teachers meet, every single day, both the joy and the challenges it brings to having a multicultural school. Therefore, all teachers need the knowledge of religion and life, understanding of the multicultural and ability to deal with concrete challenges. Today's teachers meet a multitude of students, and religion and outlook on life are no longer just a theme in the RLE field. For example: I think it's important that the teacher has a religious understanding in order to provide a good, adapted education. Therefore, it is important that all teachers have a basic knowledge of religious understanding so that they can be integrated into all disciplines. That's exactly what happens to the new primary school teacher education. As the Council of State was also involved, the compulsory subject of Pedagogics and student skills should also prepare all teachers to contribute to an inclusive and diverse school. In view of much of what Harberg said, I believe that there is also reason to follow the situation with teacher students, who choose to take the RLE subject as an electoral subject in order to be able to teach it, carefully. But I'm also glad that the Council of State can say here today that the number of teacher students who choose the RLE course seems to stay stable. I hope that more and more teachers will see the importance of religion and outlook on life — both in school and in society. For religion and view of life, there are also themes to which there are also sometimes strong feelings and opinions. In a multicultural and diverse country, it is more important than ever that we have dialogue and discussions about religion in a respectful way. There I think we have a way to go. It is important that teachers are safe about their role in classrooms, so that they do not obscure important debates. For us, it is an objective that the level of knowledge of religions and outlook on life should be raised, that understanding of the meaning of religion and the meaning of life – for both society and individuals – needs to be improved. In addition, the ability to engage in practical and respectful dialogue between religions and attitudes to life needs to be strengthened. I am therefore pleased that the follow-up group for primary education will work especially with the multicultural perspective now, and I am happy to follow that work. I think it is good that the Council of State and the Department follow this closely. We are going to follow the situation and believe that these are important debates that we must also take forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1929	I would like to start by thanking the representative for addressing this important matter. A good basis for both cultural and religious coexistence is actual knowledge. RLE is a science of religion, life-view, ethics and philosophy, in which teaching should stimulate all-sided formation and give room for wonder and reflection on important religious, ethical and philosophical/cultural issues. The RLE subject is no longer compulsory in teacher training, and the number of teaching students who choose RLE has fallen sharply in several educational institutions. The result of a weakened RLE subject is that many who today teach subjects related to religion have no depression in the subject, despite the fact that understanding of different religions is becoming increasingly important in our multi-religious society, not least the demographic development contributes. The pace of immigration and the trend of ghettos in Oslo, where some schools almost do not have Norwegian-speaking students as their mother tongue, pose major challenges. 71 pst. At present, immigration is driven by population growth in Norway. 27 pst. of the population of Oslo of 587 000 persons, approx. 160 000, are immigrants or Norwegian born with immigrant parents. The next 20 years are expected to double the number of non-Western immigrants in Oslo. That is, out of 200,000 new inhabitants, only 40,000 will be ethnic Norwegian or Western cultural circles. The growth in the number of children is so large that thousands of new classrooms have to be built in the next few years in Oslo. This will put great demands on teachers' knowledge of religion. The Church, Education and Research Committee has received letters from the National Professional Council for Christian Knowledge and Religious Science. Teachers are referred to as opting out of the RLE subject. This will result in fewer teachers who are well enough equipped to teach the subject. According to the article in Our Country on June 21, 2011, there were nine classes in the RLE subject at the University of Oslo in 2011. At school start in the same year, one class begins. I can't say that I think this is very stable. Hallgeir Elstad, head of the National Professional Council for Christian Knowledge and Religious Science, has stated that he is concerned that impaired competence among teachers will lead to less knowledge of different religions and cultures among the students, which is the opposite of what we need in today's society. I ask the Council of State to note, even if she is not present now, that there is also a notice that in the field of pedagogics and pupil knowledge there is virtually no special teaching in RLE. Given that there are a lot of different religious and ethical values among primary school students, it is of great importance that students get a good knowledge of and a good knowledge of different religious communities. The education that gives basic and good knowledge to students in this field can provide better inclusion, better cultural understanding and counteract anti-Semitic and other racist attitudes among students. In a multi-religious society, as a school class is today, teachers must be required to have the skills to teach in different ways of life. The competence of teachers is the single factor in school which is most important for the learning of students. I have to say that I look back with pleasure at my own Christian and religious education, where we had professionally skilled teachers who taught and opened up to questions, debate and dialogue about the different religious communities, and made us as students become engaged, and we learned to understand both our own and those of others. The aim must therefore be for teachers to have appropriate training in all the subjects in which they teach. The school doesn't get any better than the teachers who teach there. There was an overall opposition that previously required the reintroduction of RLE as a compulsory subject in teacher training for 1–7. class, and the Progress Party requires the same today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1950	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. When we debated teacher training here in the United Kingdom in spring 2009, the Christian People's Party unfortunately only voted for a proposal to ask the government to introduce a mandatory RLE subject both for elementary school teacher education, 1–7. steps, and for 5 to 10. steps. It's rarely an opportunity to quote itself, but I'll do that now. In the debate I said the following: ‘I’m seriously concerned about how we’re going to meet the multicultural societies of the future with the scheme that is now taking place.’ Unfortunately, it turned out that there was a great cause for concern. The number of teaching students who choose RLE has fallen sharply in several places of training. Others will provide this training, but will not be allocated study places to it. The major trade unions that existed are confused. Earlier today, we have debated the new school purpose paragraph. It states that the training shall ‘show respect for the individual’s over-interpretation’. Just this wording was a desire for Norwegian schools to take their own life interpretations and backgrounds more seriously than in the past. Teachers must be able to engage in dialogue and deal with potential conflicts based on culture and religion. Even though religion is removed from teacher training, religion and life views come through the classroom door anyway, because it is borne by the students themselves. The question of faith and religious interpretation of life touches on many of the most fundamental aspects of human life. Our public debates often demonstrate a great deal of uncertainty in dealing with questions about the place of religion in society, and a lack of insight into the importance of faith for both individuals and the community. That is why there are many examples in recent years of media and politicians falling into contact with religious reality. Many want to move these religions from public space into private. But instead of clearing religions away from public space, we should recognise their societal potential, and instead of considering religion solely as a source of conflict, we have to see that the key to much conflict-solving work is also to include religions in society. Without an understanding of the importance of faith for individuals and society, our ability to deal with social challenges is weakened, where the key is in such an understanding. It is well known that the one who is safest on his own identity is also the one who is safest in meeting others. Therefore, I am committed to ensuring that all children, no matter what religion or way of life they belong to, have knowledge of our national cultural heritage and the background of their own and others. This is why both teacher and school religious and life views are important. It is difficult to see how the school can contribute to more tolerance, respect and understanding between different cultures and religions, when one weakens the religious knowledge of the teachers. The state councils have today pointed to the new PEL subject, which is to take care of this rather than the mandatory RLE subject we had earlier. There, I think, unfortunately, there's a lot of distance from what you're saying in this hall that the PEL subject is going to contain by RLE points, and what's actually happening out there. For fun, I picked up a pedagogy and a student description for 5-10. class at the University of Nordland. The PEL course shall be able to facilitate the first year of the teacher's organisation for the student's learning and development, the second year of the pupils' professional, social and personal learning and development, and the third year of the development of the teacher's professional role and identity. The PEL subject is a very important and exciting subject. There you're going to talk about organized education, how to meet students, you're going to have the didactic, you're going to have the pedagogy in. There's not much time left to have a basic understanding of religion and ethics in teaching. With the scheme that we are now putting up for our coming teachers, they are going to be illiterate in meeting new religions and people of faith. It can only lead to more conflict and distance in a society that needs more coherence and more community, especially in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e1989	I only have a few points left. I end up naturally with those who want to pay tribute to the interpellant Svein Harberg to raise the RLE subject to debate in this room. Even if RLE, and now the PEL subject, as it's called, is a small subject in the school – it's only 7.5 pst. by their students, teachers must, of course, have the necessary knowledge and competence. Developments should be closely followed, as the interpellant points to. The importance of knowledge and competences in this area must also not be underestimated, simply because knowledge is a good basis for cultural and religious coexistence. Of course, the new basic schoolteachers that started in 2010 are also in this area. Here, this theme is put into practice in the plan, in particular in the framework plan and in the national guidelines. A description of the plank, including: the learning outcomes to meet a multicultural society characterised by diversity. The RLE subject is not mandatory now, but I am happy with the Council's feedback that she will take this into account in the ongoing evaluation of teacher training. When it comes to new places of study and the possible distribution of places of study, I believe that the current system, with a framework funding of institutions, over time is the best system that survives most easily and is most in line with what we want the institutions to be, namely that it is up to the institutions themselves — where they are established — to define the needs of society for knowledge and competence. When it's for the representative Thorsen's description of the situation in Oslo, I'll use it to make a little remark. In my ears it sounded like a description of getto states in much of the city. I think it's a description to get familiar with. I would also say that at least it's not in line with what's the spirit of the RLE subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2006	There's been a nice debate, too. It's good to notice that there's a lot of consensus. I just have a couple of clarifications. The Council of State indicates that it would be unnatural for the Storting to go in and direct or adjust in relation to the electoral profession. That's not what we've been talking about, either. But there are some people who offer, or want to offer, deepening with credits in this subject, and they need, in our opinion, to get help to get it started. We in the right have been clear that we want to have a requirement for immersion. The Council of State has now said that the evaluations and hearings should be closely followed and whether to require immersion. If it appears, it is important that the environments of competence that have maintained the RLE training do not weary in the meantime. That's why we think it's very important to stimulate them, especially since there are applicants here. Then I'm a little surprised by the state council's statement that the number of those who want to take RLE, who will choose that subject, is stable. It may have stabilized now, but it was a formidable decline before it stabilized. We also see that parts of our country lose that competence because it is no longer an offer. So it's said that a lot has improved. Yes, it is. Much has become much better, both in adjusting the subject and the education that was. That is why there is a small warning that we should not lose what had become much better. Thank you for the debate. It will be exciting to follow the evaluation to which the Council of State refers. But a little encouragement is that it's important to be in advance. Then there are some environments that have asked for help, there are some environments that have called for a warning. I think we should take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2021	I think it's wise to continue the allocation of study places in the way that we do now, either strategically or that the institutions themselves distribute them. It's not just in the RLE field that you have a strong commitment around, it's also the other parts of teacher training that have now become optional. This means that from a variety of levels, there may be calls to a department and to the Stortinget about different parts of the electoral profession that you want to reinforce. What the Stortinget and the department then have to decide is how much to fine-tune this in the future. If it was to be very lame and obvious that we lacked competence in some areas – it could also be in aesthetics, which many are concerned about, and which we also see changing in some places – we would rather take that discussion up again. But I think we're in the middle of a detailed management of the educational institutions that it's going to be a lot to convince me is wise. So I think it's very strong to say that the teachers of the future are going to be illiterate in relation to the different religions of the students, because the RLE subject is not a compulsory subject, because the pedagogics and learning skills that we now have in teacher education have a much larger width in relation to just this kind of question than before. So I think tomorrow's teachers are going to be better rusted, with more knowledge of different religions and multicultural and diverse Norway. So I would just encourage those debaters who use a little strong words, to think about it a little bit. No areas in Norway are appropriate to the definition of ‘gettos’. There are no areas in Norway that are so one-sidedly composed of any ethnic or religious groups that we can use that kind of definition about it. It's like in those schools that have large entries of children who have parents coming from elsewhere in the world, Norwegian is the common language.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2031	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2047	There are roughly three approaches to ICT. One deals with basic knowledge of ICT. The second is competence in use. The third is the use of ICT as an instrument and educational tool. In the end, the future lies. It will completely change the school over the next few years and will make adapted training feasible. It will also turn down what you use the labour force in school. The presentation will be interactive, so you can see feedback immediately. Teachers can spend time on those who need to be seen, get things better explained, get support and help. It's about smart schools and the reverse classroom. The reverse classroom means that the teacher makes videos of lectures and explanations that students can study at home, and that this way you can get time to guide students in the classroom to do their homework. The lessons are brought into the classroom, where teachers guide along the way, and lectures are taken home. The variants within this range are many, but have the common aim of facilitating adapted training. ICT and modern technologies provide new opportunities to facilitate more active learning and adapted training for students. So what about ICT in school? ICT centres in education presented earlier this year the fifth ICT monitor for Norwegian initial training. In secondary education, the situation is consistently good. Much good work is done as a result of deliberate investment over the last four to five years. The government has a lot to boast about. In primary school, the situation is somewhat more challenging. There is a correct amount of time spent in front of the computer now than before. However, the quality and availability of equipment are likely to be worse than in high school. I am concerned about the differences between subjects in the use of ICT in education and learning, although there is a lot of excitement in ICT in education as well. That it is important to invest in ICT in the future, there is no doubt about it. When one cannot use this, one falls out of a part of society's daily infrastructure. Being able to use digital tools is about basic skills that are needed in society. Therefore, it is good to be able to use digital tools with the Knowledge Lift in 2006 as part of the five basic skills. Norway was a leading country with this. Basic digital skills are much more than being able to post an email or use a browser to read news. It is made visible through the framework of the Education Directorate. Among other things, digital judgement has been highlighted as one of four master areas in a new definition of digital skills. It is national testing of basic skills in reading, writing and billing. Performing verbally is regularly done in Norwegian classrooms, and the test also takes the form of oral examinations. One must constantly focus on how to test digital skills. There are ICT-based national tests, and there is a strong need to develop a test in digital skills as well. International studies such as PISA and many other governance documents underline the challenges we face in providing students with relevant, motivating and challenging education. It always means that the policy needs to be further developed in this area. In other areas, a national ICT policy is being created, as in the Digital Agenda Communication. This is interesting and a work that should be followed. In the field of ICT in schools, the Centres for ICT in education play an important role, as well as the school and the teacher themselves. In order to equip current media users and tomorrow’s workers with digital competence and judgment, adequate teaching skills must be ensured. It's not the number of machines that decide whether the kids get good digital skills or not. It is the use that is important. Looking into Norwegian classrooms, use, access, competence, understanding and prioritisation of this field are different. Technology is giving new opportunities. We must actively use that even when it's the school and the teachers who choose the working methods. The most important factor in providing all pupils with digital skills is digitally competent teachers and managers. Digital learning is about more than learning students to write in Word, put numbers in Excel, or be for or maybe against Facebook. It is when students get creative and creative with digital tools that educational learning goals can be achieved. And it's when digital tools are used to adapt learning to each individual student, that mastery feeling gets bigger and the effect of learning becomes visible. The many creative teachers around the country know that. There must be a systematic commitment to teacher training or continuing training in this area. I look forward to the thoughts of the Council of State on how this role can be carried out. There are many good examples that you can draw on. In Sweden, they have something called PIM – practical IT and media skills. It's made up of different levels in a tithing arrangement and is something very many teachers are involved in. It is now that more and more municipalities are demanding that teachers have reached a certain level in PIM in order to get a job at school. This applies, inter alia, to: Ängelholm municipality. Such projects are important learning examples. Digital learning materials are also important. Self-produced material, free individual content and the purchase of digital content are used. In addition, NDLA is established for secondary education. Digital learning material is a prerequisite for good learning effect through the use of digital tools. It is therefore also necessary to develop digital learning materials for all subjects at all levels. Digital learning materials are essential for ICT to become an integral part of all learning. This is where the state has a great responsibility. In 2006 it was granted 50 million. kr for digital learning material. It was the county councils that could apply for the funds. All counties, except Oslo, then joined forces to establish a national digital learning arena. In 2007, it was granted under 400 million. to provide free learning material for secondary school students. Some are financed by the counties themselves. If we are to succeed in ICT education, and learners actually get digital skills, we should consider also having educational mid-term bets where schools can assess offers from different providers. Today, the majority of all funds go from the counties to the digital bet in NDLA. This year Akershus district withdrew from the scheme. If there are several states that are withdrawing from the scheme, we do not know as of today, but it is very important to follow this development. Infrastructure in the form of machinery and networks must be in place to enable teachers and students to have a full learning effect. A joint effort by the State, the municipality and the county community should be assessed. Relatively, the challenge is access to equipment in primary schools. In secondary schools, students usually own or rent the equipment themselves. We must be aware of this in the further work. Purchasing and ordering skills should be strengthened, and it must always be ensured that educational purposes govern the purchases to the school. It is important that centres for ICT in education are actively involved in the formulation of the wider policy. ICT and modern technologies provide new opportunities to facilitate more active learning and adapted training for students. But it requires anchoring of use at all associated schools, including students, teachers, school managers, school owners and parents. It also requires teachers to be safe and competent in technology, to experience it as a useful supplement, and to be able to reflect with increasingly skilled students. How will the Council of State facilitate the systematic and competent use of ICT in schools to strengthen the learning of students?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2098	According to Storting’s decision earlier today, the Storting meeting will now be suspended due to the de-mining of the painting ‘H. M. King Harald's oath" in the hiking hall. The meeting will be set again at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 3:58. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2114	The decision continues to deal with case No. 8 on Agenda No 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2117	I'm happy to be allowed to speak to the Storting on this theme, which engages me strongly. There is a lot of excitement in ICT education, and some of this I will share with you here today. The use of digital tools was introduced as one of the five basic skills of the Knowledge Lift in 2006. Norway was the first country in Europe to have a curriculum linking digital skills with professional goals. This was a very important step, as we also see clearly identified in the training. The promise of knowledge led to a growth in the interest of ICT in school. The time spent by students with computers in professional settings increased markedly in primary school in the period 2005–2007, and then flattened out. Investments in equipment, continuing training of ICT teachers, use of ICT in the disciplines and training in the safe use of ICT were prioritised. The proportion of teachers who use computers weekly or more frequently has doubled in many subjects, both in primary, secondary and secondary schools since 2005. We know that there are many schools and municipalities that have systematically integrated ICT into the disciplines. We've already got the first lucky high school. Maybe it's just a matter of time before we also get lucky high school. However, the quality is more than the quantity that is crucial when I am satisfied with how well ICT can be integrated into training. The content of school training is governed by the objectives of competence in the curriculum. There is a strong emphasis on teachers and schools having a high degree of freedom in the selection of methods. It is the professional responsibility of schools and teachers to choose the content and working methods that they believe will contribute in the best possible way to the achievement of their objectives. The technology provides opportunities for activisation, concreteisation, motivation, variation and relevance in the subjects. We have to make even better use of this. ICT centres are established and have been given important tasks by the government. This is because we wanted to ensure that we have a knowledge-based policy in the field of ICT, and that we should reach out to the policy sector. Therefore, this centre has a driving role within its field. It must be practical in its approach and explore the educational potential of a new technology. I am satisfied with what the Centre has achieved over the three years it has worked. For example, ICT centres in education have developed around 80 online tools, guides, reports and fact sheets for use in the school sector. The Centre is responsible for a central action in the headlines on youth – Virtual Mathematics School – i.e. a math school online. In this project, the aim is that innovative, interactive and new forms of learning will stimulate students to deliver more and get better results. The project shall target students who need greater challenges than they receive in the ordinary course of training, as well as those who struggle with mathematics. The virtual mathematics school shall be a complement to ordinary education and aim to increase the motivation of the individual student. I was out last night looking at this. We have a network of students who are able to test out this online math education for those students who need major professional challenges while they're in high school. It was so very promising and interesting. There were students who discussed and reflected around mathematics at a very high level, with a teacher located somewhere in the country and student groups elsewhere. When we get this rolled out as an offer across the country, we're actually going to see that there are some possibilities here that are much bigger than many believe today. There are an incredible number of schools and teachers who are good and creative in their use of ICT. The center must work for both the schools and the teachers who are in the middle, the people who are following, and the great mass of schools and teachers who are in the middle. Dissemination of experience is a key word. For this reason, the Centre participates both nationally and internationally to test and disseminate experiences from ground-breaking ways of working, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t iTEC, Innovative Technologies for an Engaging Classroom, is a four-year project to test out larger and less ICT-based teaching facilities in thousands of European classrooms. Nordic interactive board projects study what happens to the teacher role when interactive boards are used. Space for learning is a modern learning space as an example of the design of learning venues using ICT, where kindergartens, schools and teacher training, in cooperation with the Centre, develop and test the use of ICT in games, learning and teaching. We have some clear challenges. First, there are still schools and teachers who have not taken on sufficiently well that digital skills are necessary for our students to succeed in social and work life. It turns out that students who succeed in using ICT in a good way in school work are the same pupils who succeed in school work in general and have essentially the same social background. This means that teachers need to pay more attention to the qualitatively good use of ICT to prevent the emergence of new digital divisions. Secondly, it is a challenge for digital media to distract students. Teachers must be clear leaders and have a conscious relationship with when, how and why ICT should be used. Class management is an important element of two major initiatives for which the Directorate of Education is responsible: The Youth Strategy, which is a school-based competence development in reading, accounting and classroom management, is the five-year effort for the Better Learning Environment. Class management in classrooms with many computers is not significantly different from a classroom in the traditional sense. It's about supportive relationships, structure, rules, learning culture, motivation and expectations. We need to help teachers who are uncertain about technology by providing good examples and practical tips on how to deal with concrete issues. I have therefore commissioned the Centers for ICT in education to develop online resources with practical tips for good rules and practices in high-tech classrooms. The use of digital tools cannot and must not be seen in isolation from other basic skills such as reading, writing, billing and verbal skills. The use of digital tools is more than technical skills. Critical and reflective use is central. It is also about critical source use and the consequences of irresponsible use. In short: good digital judgment. I stand by the fact that the curriculum and the introduction of digital skills as a basic skill are one of the strongest tools we have to ensure that students have the knowledge they need after finishing school. In the knowledge society, individuals need to be able to see links and further develop their knowledge and competences. Digital skills will be essential to equip each one for the future. Assessment and assessment methods must also be influenced by the content of the curriculum. Digital assessment is about both digital assessment and digital assessment. The school must develop good practice in both the meanings of digital assessment, both in-flight and when to set a position. We already have ICT-based national tests, and the Education Directorate is working with the ICT Centre in education to develop a test in digital skills. Increasing use of the Internet in education has also led to increased demand for Internet use for exams. So we've started an Internet test on exams. The feedback after the first year is positive. I'm very excited about the continuation of this, among other things. because similar tests in Denmark show that there has been a catalyst for the development of the subject and that teaching has been a quality promise. They have received more effective education, better opportunities to take advantage of more of their learning styles and a greater understanding of the breadth and depth of their subjects. The teacher is very important for students’ learning, including in the field of digital skills. This means, of course, that the teacher must also have digital competence. The teacher’s ability and initiative to dare to try out is a good starting point for successful ICT teaching. The teacher must understand and know the arenas in which the students are acting, and the opportunities in the technology and in the digital tools. The educational environment represents a critical factor because they are responsible for basic training and at the same time face most of the provision of continuing training. It has therefore been important for me to highlight those areas of the new framework plan and the national guidelines for primary education. There is a lot of exciting happening in relation to the use of ICT in education. It is linked not only to the fast pace of technology development but also to the way we think about education. In this area, there are many examples, as the interpellant also had, of how to turn the way you work in the classroom using new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2185	Thank you very much for your briefing. I think the article shows in a nice way the exciting and important things that happen in relation to ICT in school. Among other things, it is important to highlight that Norway was first out of school with a curriculum followed by professional objectives and that this led to an increase in the time spent in the subject until 2007, although it is now flattened out. The number of teachers who use it weekly is doubled, and that's good, and it shows how right that grip was at that time. It is good that the Centers for ICT in Education have developed around 80 online tools in guidance, reports and facts that they are working with the Virtual Mathematics School. I think that's important too. Experiments with the Internet on exams are positive and the role of teachers has become so central to the presentation and policy. Finally, I think it is very good that this need for testing digital skills is recognised, that this is being taken care of. I look forward to what this is going to be like, because I now understand that there is a development work going on. Thank you for a thorough and good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2194	I thank you for this occasion to just take up this theme in Stortinget as well, because I think we have come a long way, but we no longer come without impatience, as among others. Karin Yrvin is now contributing to the Stortinget. In this field, there are a lot of ways to develop the way to work in teaching. Then I think about childhood and youth as well as higher education. And not least when it comes to what the interpellant had to say at the beginning, how to think of reverse classrooms, where a student or a student experiences a relatively passive learning situation, for example. a lecture to follow up on what is being told, one can very quickly see that this can happen online or with other technical aids at home, while what is currently a lesson is done in colloquial groups together with teachers in a teaching situation. And that's how you develop the way to work in many teaching places, and I think we can use a lot more of the active time where you actually have access to lecturers and teachers, in a way that ensures that you – what to say – explore the impulses you've received in a more unified lecture situation. There are also enormous opportunities in the technology on which online games, PC games, have been developed, for example. many of the rehearsals as part of those who struggle with mathematics need to be designed in different ways in different games. And nothing is better than whether it was going to be some student who also got pretty attached to this and can drag us on. In many of the ways that the games are put up, it's just that you get to a stage and then you go on. It'll be similar to a lot of the professional progress you can see in different subjects. So here we really have a lot of possibilities. When we develop them gradually, it may well be that we get into some issues as well, for example. in relation to privacy. You might well imagine that teachers, for example: can monitor a student’s progress in a game — someone spends more time on a task and someone spends less time on a task — and gets up some kind of learning profile by a student. How to store such a thing and how to store the time spent by teachers in relation to it, gives us some perspectives that we are probably not well prepared for today. But life is full of challenges, and we throw ourselves greedily at them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2201	Why ICT in education? I want to ask the question because I think the answer is exactly as follows: we achieve the goals we have for Norwegian school to a greater extent than otherwise, I think. The goal, just to remind you of that, is to ensure the basic skills of all students, we'll give them it, everyone will experience mastering, and we'll prevent apostasy. That's why it's nice to read what the Center for ICT in education writes on the front page of its brochure: ‘We work for better learning with the smart use of ICT.’ They don't work for ICT in school, they work for better learning with smart use of ICT. The use of new technologies cannot be an end in itself. I think the school is going to be much better with new technology, and with the use of ICT, and an active and thoughtful use of ICT. Why? There are three different reasons for that. The first is that I think we can finally find a slightly more stable and lasting solution really to something that might be quite difficult in school, and that's custom training for everyone. Smart tools and smart learning tools allow us to adapt the problems much easier either to those who take things professionally very easily, are far ahead of class, or to those who are struggling with something, and need more time. It can be learned to handle in the same classroom in a much simpler way through better interactive learning. That's just the point. The second point is that interactive learning, which is really what the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen is talking about when she refers to computer games, is what triggers. It's much more exciting to get a response right away, and you can usually get that when you sit and talk to a person and discuss something, or have a conversation. But with a book you can't do that, because then you have a passive thing in front of you, but through data you'll be able to get answers right away. When that reaction is there, it becomes much more exciting. It's a paradox. We all know the troubled children, the awfully troubled children, who then sit very calmly in front of a computer. Why do they do that? It's because something happens in that computer that triggers them. We're going to have to play that in school instead of having to sit on them and say that they have to sit quietly and listen to the teacher who might be messing with something that's very passive, and that's not an interaction at all. There's the other reason. The third reason is that we can finally also, I think, manage to cut drastically in the bureaucracy of the teachers. Many of these new learning tools make correction something quite different from what it has been – something quite different! We can also look at the reverse classroom, which was also in the Council of State, that you can have the good lectures on movies, you can have a lecture in recordings that everyone can sit and listen to, and then use the teaching resources in the class to work on giving feedback to each one. Because that's where more teachers are needed – up to the individual, the close relationship, being seen, that is, every student experiences being seen and getting feedback on exactly what you are doing, by another person. We can't replace it with machines. I think that's one of the most important things to prevent apostasy, and we can free up a lot of labour by doing it instead. Because that's what we've really done with the technological revolution that we're living in the middle of now, and as you can see in every business and in many public institutions, and around the world – the workforce can be used in a completely different way than before for technology to make it possible. But then there are some challenges that I think we should discuss more systematically than we have now, and there is no criticism of anyone at all. Norway has been far ahead of this field for a long time, but there is a lot of new happening, and things are happening quickly. I think we need to have a discussion about when to use the aid, and when not to use it, how to deal with this with class unrest, when to put away all these tools, and how to regulate it all the time on the Internet. We need to have research on this, we need to educate all the teacher students who attend the educational institutions, and we need to have continuing education. The protection of privacy is mentioned. Equipment and learning materials need to be continuously updated, it doesn't last that once we have bought PCs for everyone, we are in the finish line. It doesn't apply. Then we have to have a discussion about role distribution. What should the central authorities do, what should the individual school decide, and what role should the teachers, publishers, product developers play? It also has to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2219	First of all, I want to thank the representative Yrvin for choosing to address this issue in Stortinget. Digital competence is one of the basic skills that we need to ensure that today’s school students receive good training and knowledge about. Norway is one of the world’s most widely used ICTs in everyday life, and it goes without saying that competence in this area is essential for everyone to be able to function in that day-to-day. We all agree on all the positive effects you can get from using this in school and all the benefits that this brings in the learning environment, especially considering the possibility of adapting training to both the weak students who can get extra help, and the professionally strong students who can make progress faster, without going beyond the teaching for the others. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to address three challenges of using ICT in everyday life, which I hope we can discuss further, which the Council of State can take further into account in the treatment of this, and which has not been up before. The first is the challenge in relation to today’s perception of the concept of ‘classroom’. There's nothing negative, but the fact that you lose the social interaction between the students is an effect we can't ignore. We know that learning takes place not only in concentrated and organized forms, but also unofficially, on unorganized learning platforms. We'll see, for example. in the Oslo Cancer Cluster project, the importance of establishing learning platforms where both formal and informal learning can take place. The challenge of increasing the use of digital learning material may be to lose some of that platform. How should this be maintained while implementing increased use of digital skills and tools in education? Another point I would like to emphasise is the need for further competence in this area. We know that the average age of today's teachers is quite high, and very many of them took their teacher training at the time when digital competence, ICT and the use of these tools were actually not part of teacher training at all. It is vital that teachers' skills in this field be increased because today there are more examples of students actually being able to use these tools more than the teacher can. It's a little serious, and it's something you have to take with you in order to bet on the further training of the teachers who are actually going to use it in teaching. It is then important to focus on the fact that the goal itself is not increased use of digital instruments, but how this can provide better learning for students. The last thing I want to address, as a special appeal to the Council of State, is a problem related to this which is not addressed, and which concerns the law of universal design. Universal design of digital learning platforms in school is exempt from the law because it is an area without public access. It makes that e.g. blind and partially sighted students or their superiors have no access to, or are able to avail themselves of, learning platforms such as IT learning or Fronts or others, thus being excluded from a large part of these digital learning platforms and everyday learning. So this is a moment I hope the Council of State can take forward in the way that you might put it in as an order criterion for learning platforms to the school, that it should be a criterion that universal design should also apply to these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2232	Thank you to the interpellant for addressing a topical issue on how the Norwegian school should best equip students with a rapidly digitalised society, and how to get good and better learning. On the exit door of the Flytrain is the warning “Mind the gap”. I think that we can set up the same warning in this area – ‘Mind the gap’ – for ICT Monitor 2012 is a new reminder that knowledge in the digital field is partially varied in Norwegian school, and so is the use of digital tools in school. We observe a digital division in the student flock, and we observe a digital division in the teacher population – one may be a product of the other. ICT Norway has pointed out that, unlike Denmark, Norway is lacking a national strategy for ICT in schools. Such a strategy has actually called for several times, because we believe that there is something that is politics here, even though the Centers for ICT in education have an important role to play in being a performer in this area. Let's be clear: Norwegian teachers have no doubt a need for empowerment. If the ambition is that the school should contribute to eradicating digital differences, we can't help but bet on the teachers. We can no longer rely on the fires of the individual school. This is a type of basic competence for all teachers, because digital competence and skills must permeate all subjects in school. As the interpellant underlines, digital skills are basic skills in line with, among other things, reading, writing and billing. Here, through the Knowledge promise, Norway has actually been a leading country. But it doesn't keep up with competence goals about digital skills. The question is how the objectives of competence are realized in the classroom. Students shall acquire, process, produce and process digital material and equally important: Students shall develop digital judgment that allows digital communication in a good and safe way. There is no doubt that the school has a high potential for better-adapted training. In this area, ICT and digital tools can play a key role in motivating students for greater work and in adapting training better to the individual student’s assumptions. An example of this is the Norwegian-developed Kikora math program that offers level-differentiated tasks, which provides students with continuous feedback and actual hints along the way where they calculate errors so that they can get back on track. It requires that we have digitally qualified teachers who can follow the students in such learning processes and make sure that we receive good instruction. I've also had the pleasure of visiting the technology line at Hundsund high school, and I've seen how students working with New GIV have put new technology into practice. In both cases we have experienced students who receive close professional follow-up and feedback digitally, which the students themselves experience as both positive and meaningful. The municipality of Tromsø now has a plan for teaching digital skills and skills in the Tromsø school from 1 to 10. year-end. This joint Tromsø school plan will be used from New Year's, and that means that regardless of which Tromsø school a student starts, training in digital skills will be the same. The municipality has also secured Feide logins for all its students and teachers, and buys licences to the school at municipal level, so that the ICT bet becomes a common denominator across the municipality. In order to avoid a testing school in the field of ICT, the Right considers that there is a need for a national strategy. We need a national strategy on how to build sufficient digital competences in the teacher's corps. We need a national strategy for what kind of ICT infrastructure the school should have. We need an ICT strategy to ensure effective and secure login for students and teachers. We need a national strategy on how to further develop education in the classroom and school so that we get the impact of the digital tools we are now using, and we need a national policy to stimulate the increased use of digital learning resources. Here I can show you that, for example. The municipality of Oslo has now imposed on its schools that a certain percentage of the teaching material you buy should be digital learning material, just to make sure that the school uses it, and that the teachers learn to use it. I want to challenge the government to rethink this, whether it's not that there is actually a need for an overall national policy in this area too to ensure that we get a school that goes as fast as possible in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2254	Digital competence, as many have said, is one of five basic skills in primary and secondary education. The school’s curricula therefore also require ICT to be used in all subjects at all stages, and therefore by all teachers. But in order for these objectives to manifest themselves in the actual knowledge of the students, it is necessary, as the interpellant mentions, that the use of ICT is anchored not only by students and teachers but also by school leaders, school owners and parents. A few years ago, when the use of ‘data’ was to be introduced in education, the theme was, in particular, investment in equipment and the number of students per machine. Continuing, the coverage and upgrade of hardware is a theme if we are to achieve our objectives. ICT centres in education perform, as many have been involved, the Monitor Monitoring to investigate the ‘digital status’ of schools. The survey is nationwide and is based on a sample of school leaders, teachers and students at the 7th stage, 9th stage and secondary stage 2, i.e. Vg2. Among school leaders, ICT is found to have a high professional priority, but it is still not sufficiently focused on up-to-date equipment, especially in primary schools. Monitor shows that half of primary school headmasters believe that the school has access to enough ICT resources, while the same figure for secondary school principals is 78 pst. Secondary schools give greater priority to digital educational resources compared to primary school principals and seem to have a more comprehensive and comprehensive focus on ICT if we compare. Teachers are positive about using computers in education, but the survey shows considerable variations between schools and subjects in the use of computers by teachers. High school teachers say that they use computers at school to a much greater extent than primary school teachers. On the other hand, the study does not say anything about the learning outcomes or the learning effects of ICT use in the various disciplines. Students at the selected stages of the survey use to a large extent computers in their learning work, but there are, as I said, considerable differences between primary and secondary schools. There are also differences between subjects in the use of computers. A large proportion of secondary school students use data weekly or more frequently in the subjects of Norwegian, English and social sciences, while there is a lower proportion of 7th and 9th-stage students using computers weekly or more frequently in these three subjects. Students and teachers experience that the quality of school computers is not suitable for all types of subjects and tasks. The machines work well for less machine-intensive activities such as writing, but are often too slow when it comes to software with movies and images, image editing and use of the Internet. If the use of ICT is to provide added value in addition to the more traditional learning material, it is absolutely a point that equipment and software are up to date and available. The same applies to updating teachers to use ICT as an effective tool. Today, we hear different stories about how ICT works in the educational situation. It offers great opportunities, as the minister of knowledge showed examples, but I'm hardly the only one who has received feedback on the use of social media in the educational situation and that it can interfere with teaching. Social media and accessibility at all times require that the teacher has good competence and ability to use ICT as a tool when she is going to take it out of service when appropriate, and also use social media as a tool in the educational situation when appropriate. The use of ICT in education has come to be. It is therefore important that we have good equipment available and that teachers have good competence to benefit from the effects of this tool and further develop opportunities. The centre has previously set out to look at the effects of learning outcomes related to the use of ICT in schools. I believe that we still do not have a good enough overview of this. What works well, and what doesn't work so well? I hope that the Centres for ICT in education will look into these issues in the future, so that we get the best possible use of ICT, with the incredible opportunities it offers for students. Then it will be exciting to follow up on how the university and higher education sectors will follow up this wave that will come from below, from primary school. At the latest this morning we could hear on radio that NTNU is now publishing their lectures online, but they stress that this may lead to a greater need for discussion in groups afterwards. How they spend their time in the higher education sector can change from what it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2284	I'm ICT-free and was suddenly told to say it from this pulpit, sail if I don't belong to the right committee. That's how I think it's also very nice what's being said here by both the Council of State and committee members. Firstly, the Committee attaches great importance to the fact that this is a basic skill and has been it for a long time, and so it is important to develop it and process it. Secondly, this investment here is also a typical example for me of that school to be good at, namely learning for life, for the future. It's communicative, and the communicative is then to the degrees electronically. So this isn't just a contribution to processing and putting emphasis on this with a basic skill, but it's absolutely to take care of the school's social mandate, learning for life. Additional points that have emerged in the debate here are that there is a genuine opportunity to improve on adapted education. It also gives a very good opportunity to break down the distinctions between subjects. Some of us were on Andøya, at the space research center there, and there we got good examples of how a mixer rock and real science and the artistic in a very good and exciting way. Thus, one will also contribute to a better connection between school and society, for society is increasingly digital. Then the school also has to keep up with that development, and I think it's easier to meet just by one developing this technology. An additional point that is not least important in the Uppland school district – and I think Uppland has been too bad in that area so far – is to see if the new technology can help us maintain a more decentralised school structure than what we can do in the ordinary way, to say it that way. If we look at lifelong learning and adult learning, one sees more and more that one builds an infrastructure that plays on the fact that people can learn where they live and where they work around our country. Maybe we could think a little bit more of that way even in primary school, and not least in high school, so that we could maintain a decentralised structure with initially small units, but which nevertheless works in such a way that both the student and the teacher can feel that a larger community belongs, which is also very positive. For small student environments and for small learning environments is not good, and will become more and more a negative factor in the future, I think. But right here, it's easier to build bigger environments. So, as I said, honor be the one who puts this on the agenda. It's not easy, because it's very easy to realize that especially teachers can quickly feel that one is not competent enough to do a good job into this new era. But then one gets to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2297	First to Elisabeth Aspaker, drawing a picture that one is a little worried about the state of the school. You always have to discuss what you can do, but you also have to assume that it's doing incredibly well. She refers to ICT monitoring studies, which show that the situation is consistently good in secondary schools. You have almost 1:1 equipment, and you have good teachers. This is due to a deliberate effort by the Council of State and the government over the last four to five years, so that must be the starting point for the debate. I think what Aksel Hagen mentions about the connection between school and society is incredibly interesting. You can imagine how unnatural it really is for kids today to start school, come to a school system when you've had ICT around you during your entire childhood: audiobooks, games, interactivity, social interaction with other kids with computers and TV. Actually, it's about the school hanging out with what the children are already part of. To Mette Hanekamhaug: I don't think getting ICT and turning the classroom leads to less social interaction. I think it's going to lead to more, because it's going to be so interesting lectures, so much interesting to see and so much to do together that it won't be natural to sit alone and experience the reverse classroom. You don't want to sit alone and find the solutions in the opposite classroom. You will also be able to have the evaluation and what you learn, and when you get back to school, you will still be able to work together. So I'm really just seeing the possibilities of it, and you can look at it for example. the game world to see how it can be solved. Marianne Aasen took up the importance of having ICT for the sake of learning, and I fully agree with that. It has also been addressed with additional competence of teachers. I also have faith in the older teachers. Although they have not grown up in the digital community, there are an incredible number of curious people who can do a job just as well as those who have grown up in the data age or the ICT world. I think the council should listen to what is said about universal design, because it's actually a very good point from Hanekamhaug, that someone should be exempted and others should be part of it. Tingelstad Wøien took up, among others. the important role of principals in primary school. It is also important to take with her, along with the other thing she took up for the best possible use of ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2314	I think that too many people are approaching this debate as if ICT is just another way of using books, pens and paper, and don't see the opportunities that lie there to work completely differently in many areas. If you, for example, Fear that a reverse classroom means that you are taken less and have less contact with your lectures and other students, I believe that you have been completely misunderstood. To think of the reverse classroom, the way to learn, is the big auditoriums with hundreds of students who don't talk, but who experience the same thing. They can sit separately and experience exactly that, but then they can use the resources and meeting places together, by actively going through some of the substance they've been given access to. In terms of interactive learning, games, etc., I also think that we can imagine some possibilities that go far beyond the use of ICT with the approach that it just replaces some of the books, the writing boards and the pencils we're already using. We're not going to depreciate people over 50 years. My experience, both from Twitter and Facebook, is that there are 50-year-olds in clusters, with a great deal of curiosity. They're far more social after Twitter and Facebook than they were before, if they, of course, use it in a way. We must – as the representative Yrvin was in the room – be very satisfied with how well we are at secondary level, but we must be much more ambitious in terms of primary and secondary education. A very important part of the upgrade we're doing in youth now, ways of working on, needs to be about expanding the horizon in order to make use of more ICT. The way we're adding up, for example. in mathematics, just think of the point that Aksel Hagen was making -- that students who need some special professional challenges can get them where they are, in the environment they are, and don't have to move physically from a high school to a high school. It gives you a lot of power. The ambitions we have for children with a minority background, who may have a native language that not many have, can be fulfilled by giving opportunities to keep it up or developing it over the Internet. It also provides opportunities to collect students from many parts of the country, who can then retain and develop their skills, such as: in language. There are a lot of possibilities here. The important thing is that we all take responsibility where we are. Teachers have to take responsibility, teachers have to take responsibility, the ICT centre has responsibility, the government has responsibility, the Stortinget has a responsibility, and in all these fields we just have to make sure that we get the cooperation well ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2329	That being the case, it is no. 8 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2343	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, a speaking time of up to 5 minutes is proposed for each member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and four lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2356	Children in flight mirror a profoundly unfair world. When people flee, children are hit harder than adults. An overall committee welcomes the government's initiative for a wide-ranging review of the situation of these children. The main message is about children seeking protection in Norway, alone or with adults. However, it is also about preventing children from travelling or being sent on a dangerous journey towards Europe and Norway without a need for protection. The message describes the international picture and the extent of children in flight. It describes en route abuse, that some just disappear, cynical traffickers and traffickers, Norway's international work for children are also addressed, including improving the conditions of country children fleeing from, and our support to organisations working for the protection of children globally. A separate chapter is devoted to children in refugee camps. These are the children who come to Norway and seek protection, who are most engaged in the public debate here at home. International Conventions and Agreements allocate responsibility for providing protection. We have previously addressed a communication on migration in a European perspective. An overall increase was therefore in favour of harmonisation of legislation and common minimum standards for the treatment of asylum applications and asylum seekers. It's important, not least for the children. Some 10,000 people apply for asylum in Norway each year, but the figure has varied considerably, with a preliminary peak in 2009 of just over 17 000 applicants. Last year there were 9,053. Nevertheless, the proportion of children is quite stable at around 30 pst. More children come together with adults than alone. About 70 pst. of the lone children. For accompanying children, the proportion is about half of this. Children in need of protection are given refugee status and residence in Norway. But many also come without protection, hoping to get a better future. Some of them are allowed to stay on the basis of strong human considerations, but there are relatively few. The public debate on refugee children often revolves around children who are neither entitled to protection nor allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. The Committee organised a case-by-case consultation as part of its examination of the notification. Twelve agencies signed up — mainly non-governmental organisations working with children, but also others. We got a lot of input and concrete suggestions, which are listed and commented on in our attitude. Here, as in the other comments of the Committee, there is a relatively broad consensus in the Grand Duchy on government policy in this area, but there are some shades ranging from the desire for a slightly tighter line to the desire for clarification and a certain decoration of the legislation in the form of regulatory changes. Some of this is concrete in the form of seven minority proposals, one from the Right and six from the Christian People's Party. I assume that they themselves take up and justify their proposals. In ten minutes there will be no time to address all the issues in the message and from the hearing, but other speakers will go into some of them. I want to spend a little time on the subject of long-term children, which is thus a major feature of the public debate. There are issues where children and/or parents do not receive protection under international conventions. A new assessment is then made whether they may still be due to strong human considerations. The child’s best course is then weighed against immigration-regulating considerations, and a few more are allowed to stay. The best of the child, as one of several fundamental considerations, then becomes decisive. When this balance also gives rise to a refusal, the problem may arise for a long time, but not always. Some comply with the decision and return voluntarily within the time limit. They have access to relatively good return programmes, which the Communication also proposes to strengthen by DKK 10 000 per child. Last year, over 300 children returned voluntarily, almost all following adults. Approximately twice the number was forced to return – approx. One-fourth of them were lone minors. Most of them were returned to another European country. Both children and adults are obliged to leave at the time of final rejection. Some extremely few cannot return voluntarily, but they may be. Others, who do not travel on a voluntary basis, are initially to be transported out, but this is often difficult. There may be capacity problems in the police, some countries refuse to accept their own citizens on forced return, some applicants refrain from returning, going into hiding, or refusing to cooperate in clarifying their identity. The result is that some children stay for a long time in Norway, without a residence permit. Some were born in Norway after their parents came here. These are the long-term children. They are, or become, Norwegian in mind and skin. The number is estimated to be around 450, depending on what one rains as long as it lasts. In 2007, the Government introduced a provision, §8 to 5 of the Foreign Regulation, that children’s relationship with Norway should be given particular attention when assessing when a residence permit should be granted on the basis of strong human considerations. In its treatment of new foreign law, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, the majority stressed that the greater the importance of the decision for the child, the more it should be in order to focus on immigration policy considerations, and the importance of the child’s best interests in certain contexts would be so heavy that access to other considerations is not essential. In 2011, the Government adopted a further amendment to the Foreign Regulation, which specifies that child considerations are to be set out separately in the decisions. In the Storting hearing, several organisations considered it difficult to see from the decisions how the best of the child was weighed against other considerations. The Committee has therefore chosen to stress the importance of the drafting of the decisions in a way which makes them verifiable. Organisations also asked for a clearer clarification of the factors to be included in the child’s best judgements and that, according to them, a clarification of the expected practice should take the form of a regulatory provision stating how the child’s best interests should be assessed and the weight to be attached to that consideration. The majority of the Committee, like the government, considers that the current legislation is really good enough, but that, in the light of practice, there is a need for clarification. The Communication states that recent UNE practices indicate that in some cases more emphasis is placed on immigration-regulating considerations than is provided for in the legislation. At the same time, practices appear to be less unambiguous. All matters shall be assessed individually, but it shall be considered whether the child has attended kindergarten/school, whether the child speaks Norwegian, participates in leisure activities, is particularly related to the Norwegian community, inter alia. through leisure activities, languages and friends. Residence time with which asylum seekers count. It shall also provide for residence by final decision. UNE today chooses to ignore this last one. Time limit exceeded is less burdensome than active countermeasures to return, violation of criminal law, etc. However, it is clarified that at some point the best interests of the child will have to be given priority in any case. Health problems, treatment options in the home country, the need for stability and tranquillity of children, the situation of care in return, trafficking in human beings and the risk of sexual mutilation are also factors to be considered. The notification and the treatment of the Storting are to be seen as a follow-up to the new Foreign Affairs Act, which clarifies and clarifies the intentions of the legislator. It is assumed that the non-resident authorities will act accordingly. Policy shall be reviewed at regular intervals below. The first review we get in the summer of 2013. However, the most important thing — in any case — must be to prevent children from getting into such a vacuum, as many of the long-term children do. We do this best through faster procedures, including I would like to mention the new 15-month deadline for proceedings in UNE, which has now been at the hearing, as well as faster returns. All these measures will also allow us to discuss further in the context of the 2013 budget, because the government will follow up what is stated in the communication, with concrete actions and appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2390	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2393	In the case of long-term children, the government wants to send some signals to the UN that the practice has been interpreted too strictly and that the administration has relied on a practice that is not consistent with the adoption of the Stortinge in 2007. My question to the representative Lise Christoffersen is: Is it the administration that has run Norwegian policy since 2007? Is it not a declaration of failure on the part of the policy if it is such that the government really believes that the administration is almost living its own life and creating its own policy? Does the representative Lise Christoffersen really think this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2400	Now it is the case that Stortinget is responsible for giving laws and regulations. We're not doing it. The executive authority shall have the government. The administration is set to take care of this, and it is the way with all the laws and regulations that there is a certain room for judgement and interpretation. The room of discretion and interpretation is provided by the administration or by the courts. If we see – as in this case – that practice is not where we are supposed to be, it is our role as legislator to specify where we want practice to lie. As I said in my post, this message and this debate are to be seen as a post-work. That means that we, as politicians, take that room back. Norway is governed by elected representatives, and it is our duty to say from whose practice is not where we have assumed that it should lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2405	As the representative mentioned in his statement, some unaccompanied minors spend time travelling from foreign countries, across Europe and to Norway. It is important that we try to prevent them from embarking on such a journey, because we know that a lot can happen to minors on such a long journey. What does the representative think is the best motivation to prevent minors from embarking on such a journey?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2412	It is believed that we are pursuing a humane, legal and consistent asylum policy. It is very clearly illustrated by what happened after the tightening up in 2009. In 2009, 2 500 single-year-old asylum seekers arrived in Norway. Last year – if I remember correctly – 853, so it is clear that the signals have been received. Norway is not as attractive to travel to, and we see that the grant rate is rising. This suggests that there are some people who do not need protection who do not now come to Norway. On the other hand, we don't know much about this, which leads to them travelling to other European countries. That is why, in the comments, we have also asked for figures to show the development of Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2419	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2422	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good factual description of the matter. As the rapporteur also pointed out, there is a relatively large consensus around most of the principles in relation to the notification of children on the run. We all agree that children are a particularly vulnerable group, and especially children who are in a refugee situation. It's also interesting to ask yourself the question in this context: what is a child really? Children are often defined to be anyone under the age of 18. This involves teenagers, or — to put it bluntly — young people who are referred to as children. Most of the young people I know would be powerfully provoked if I appealed to them as a child – even though they are far from being considered adults. Age can be a lot, and science operates with more age than the purely chronological age, i.e. How many years we've lived. Mental age indicates the level of maturity, and physical age indicates the level of physical development of the human being. Many of those referred to as children in immigration policy show a physical and mental maturity that should lead to adult age. Another challenge we face is the actual age of asylum seekers in relation to what they are informed by themselves. This is a matter that one has to consider when debating children on a refugee basis. In Report. Number 27 for 2011–2012 is divided into two main groups. One group is children who accompany adults seeking asylum in Norway. For me, it's natural that children accompany adults. As a result, families will not be split regardless of the outcome of an asylum application. This is precisely a matter of little controversy, but some people believe that long periods of residence in Norway should give the right to a residence permit, which is an opinion that I did not sign. There is always a reason why the processing of an asylum application takes a long time. The most common reason is that unclear or incorrect information has been provided that may take a long time to find out. I see no reason for this to be premiered. It is therefore important that measures are taken to reduce the duration of proceedings. No one, either asylum seekers or the Norwegian community, has been served with a long trial period. If they remain, even if they remain illegal, they establish ties, which are again used as arguments in new requests. This means that the undersigned is mistaken. Nor do I see any reason why it is to be presented that a person will not comply with the legitimate decisions of the appropriate authorities, and that instead of returning to the home country as provided for, a person chooses to train the decision by making new requests for conversion. The second group is the lone minor asylum seekers. I have little faith that all lone minor asylum seekers are actually lonely. This I think is just a disappearing little minority. On the contrary, they demonstrate the fact that they have travelled to Norway and the fact that they are applying for asylum, precisely that they have a social network. In Report. St. 27 has not published statistics on the country of origin of the lone minor asylum seekers, but countries such as Afghanistan are also Iraq. It is also referred to the Horn of Africa – which must be a rewriting for Somalia. What characterises these three countries is a relatively low wage level as well as high unemployment. It is unlikely that a young asylum seeker from some of these countries has managed to finance the trip to Norway. This means that someone other than the asylum seeker himself has paid the trip for this youth or this child. This also shows that the asylum seeker has a network, at least in the home country, and in many cases also in Norway. However, it also shows that some people are trying to take advantage of the situation of minor asylum seekers or minors from countries that do not have it as well as we do in Norway. So there's someone who makes money to take advantage of children in this case as well. From this point of view, it is not entirely consistent with the facts when the asylum seeker is referred to as a single person. The network is there, even though it is a criminal network. In many cases, there is doubt about both age and identity. Both of these matters speak in favour of the asylum seeker. It is justified to ask questions as to what are the real reasons why the asylum seeker does not want to appear with his right identity. This applies to adult asylum seekers, but of course it also applies to minors. I have recorded that there has been criticism of physical testing of age, but there is a lot of evidence that the X-rays currently carried out by teeth and wrists are good enough. I notice that the number of asylum applications from single minors fell dramatically after tests were carried out consistently. I would like to conclude that thorough tests to detect age must be maintained, while priority must be given to applications from the group of lone minor asylum seekers and they must be given high priority. It is important that those who are rejected be returned as soon as possible. A housing situation, a housing situation, in an asylum recipient is not good — and at least not for young people. At the same time, there must be strict practice in granting or refusing asylum applications. What is at least equally important is that once an asylum application has been granted, a few people have to quickly get into a normal housing situation in a municipality. I understand that municipalities refuse to accept asylum-seekers – or rather, former asylum-seekers who have been granted residence – when they see how the economy of these municipalities is and what kind of economy comes with those who have been granted a residence permit. It is important especially, as I said, for children to get into a normal living situation, but it is also important that they get a housing situation that is as good as possible in the municipalities they come to. There has also been a lot of talk about the best of children and what is best for children in a situation for asylum seekers. Some people use the argument that the best thing for a child will always be to get his application accepted. I'm sure that's right. When considering which countries they come from, it will always be better in Norway than in the country from which they come. But in my opinion, the best thing for a child is to be close to his or her own family, to be close to his or her parents, as long as these don't abuse the children. It is always the best of children, and therefore one should also seek to achieve the goal of parents and children being as close as possible to each other, so that one does not separate them. As I said, it will always be best in Norway. But I think that children always want the best with their parents, and I think that one has to base it on both the granting and refusal of asylum applications where children are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2454	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2458	We have just heard a contribution from the preferred partners of the Left in asylum and refugee policy. I have to say that I knew the Advance Party better again in the post I heard now than for example. in a press release in the Municipal Report of 7 March this year, when the Morten Ørsal Johansen of the Progress Party said that the 450 long-term children must be re-treated with their asylum application. Two months later, the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen went out and opened up to assess the amnesty of persons without legally staying and of families with children who have grown up in Norway. I wonder if the representative Ørsal Johansen can give an explanation of the gap in perceptions. Is it such that the Party of Advancement deliberately chooses to say one thing in public and do something else in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2467	I also registered the poster in the different media in this way, where I expressed to the journalist in question – I do not remember which medium it was – that for some of the children who have been refused their application, a number of new situations have arisen – some new ones have arrived – and these should be re-treated. I have never expressed any wish that all 450 children should be re-treated with their application.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2472	It's like kids, just like adults, have different mental maturity – and to the extent of physical maturity. It's like that with Norwegian kids and Norwegian adults, and that's probably how it's going to be with foreign people. Of course it is. Nevertheless, you have an age limit for defining that you are going from being a child to being an adult. The representative of Ørsal Johansen spent a lot of time on the maturity of minor asylum seekers in his post. I was a little surprised at that and wondered what the purpose was. Does he think we're going to operate with different definitions for when foreign children are adults, than what we do for Norwegian children?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2479	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2484	The representative says there's a lot of agreement about most of the principles here. Where there may be least consensus, it is within the Progress Party and in the press releases that the representative himself has. In the class struggle on 16 January it is said that the Progress Party believes that children associated with the kingdom must be allowed to become, implicitly: we have too strict an asylum policy. The representative supports the need for a returnee. It's Adrian Xhela being mentioned. On 1 June, the Progress Party says that the government rewards those who push the kids ahead of themselves, the law is there to be followed. We have an immigration policy that is too liberal. What do the Progress Party and the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen think today? Can we expect the position they have today to stand forward, or is it such that any liberalisation will only apply to the Adrian Xhela in question, and in the case of why?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2493	Now I don't know who the representative referred to. The Progress Party has a defined asylum, immigration and integration policy. We also have people in our party who have different opinions about politics, just as it is in the Center Party, in the Workers' Party and in part also in the Swedish Labour Party. We have our established policy. We'll still be on it. There is no doubt about where we stand in the field of asylum policy. We want a strict and fair asylum policy, but we also want a fact-based asylum and immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2498	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2501	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Lise Christoffersen, who has usually done a very thorough job. The reasons for children leaving their country of origin for applying for protection are several. Some children and families leave their country of origin for economic and social reasons, without a real need for protection under international conventions. They shall initially refuse their application for a stay in Norway and return, but strong human considerations may nevertheless speak for them to remain. At the same time, it must be an objective that practices do not invite others – and especially children – to make a dangerous journey to Norway without any need for protection. In decisions taken between 2005 and 2011, about 60 pst. of children admitted to stay in Norway. The share of concessions was 50 pst, respectively. for accompanying children and 82 pst. for lone minors. Since the entry into force of the new foreign law on 1 January 2010, the percentage of the total granted to the accompanying children has been about 34 p.m. and between 70 and 75 pst. for lone minors. The report shows that the proportion of granted residence permits is highest for lone children and higher for adults with children than for adults without children. Such figures may be due to the fact that the threshold of residence based on strong human considerations is lower for children than for adults and that the best interests of the child have been taken into account in some cases, although there is initially no need for protection under international rules. At the same time, the high proportion of lone minors granted protection indicates that child-specific conditions are given priority in the protection assessment. In the period 2005–2011, 944 voluntary children were returned, almost all of whom were accompanying children, in cooperation with the International Organization for Migration, IOM. In the period 2009–2011, 1780 children were transported out by the Police Foreign Unit, of which 1460 were accompanying children. 319 of those transported had declared themselves to be lone minors on arrival in Norway. A majority of the latter were returned under the Dublin II Regulation and their main weight was registered as being over 18 years in the European country to which they were returned. In 2010, five single minors were repatriated to their home country after processing the asylum case in Norway. To the right, the broad commitment is valued for children who are not allowed to stay in Norway, as we have seen from individuals and non-governmental organisations. This is an important contribution to the ongoing assessment of whether Norwegian legislation and practices are consistent with national objectives and international obligations regarding children’s rights. Refugee children are a comprehensive theme. The notification covers all children seeking protection in Norway, not only legal refugees. It discusses aspects relating to the application for protection, the situation of children while examining the application, legislation, practice and the situation of those who are being rejected. With the exception of parents’ right to family reunification with children in Norway and the situation of children with limited residence permits, the notification does not discuss issues related to residence and integration. But now the Stortinget has received the integration message for treatment, and its situation will also be duly highlighted. Stortingets has also previously dealt with issues that go on this, including: Report. Art. No. 9 for 2009-2010 on Norwegian refugee and migration policies in a European perspective. We then stressed that Norwegian refugee and migration policies are determined by the Norwegian political authorities in accordance with Norway's international obligations and agreements, that, in order to achieve the government's overall objective of a humane, solidarity and legal certainty policy on asylum and refugees, closer cooperation with other European countries is necessary through harmonisation of laws and regulations, but that this does not limit our freedom to adopt national standards. In the public debate on refugee children, the focus is particularly on long-term children. An important element of this debate has been how the commitment of Norway under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to be a fundamental consideration in all kinds of matters relating to children should be understood and practised in the treatment of applications for asylum involving children. This issue is particularly relevant in the context of requests for conversion. Upon the submission of the notification of children on a refugee basis, it was noted that the intentions of the legislator are not fully achieved through current practice. In its work, the Committee has made clear the expectations of UNE regarding these difficult issues. However, the right-hand side indicates that there are different perceptions of whether today’s regulations provide for the best interests of children in a sufficiently good way. We share the government's view that there is a need for clarification first and foremost. However, we would point out that in special cases there may be a need to change course quickly. Therefore, the government has access through instructions to ask UDI to change practices on fundamental issues. We therefore want to propose that UN can also be instructed by the government. We've also taken this up before. Right-wing wants a strict but fair asylum policy. That is why we support the government's line in relation to the child-breeding announcement. I'm taking up right-hand suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2531	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2536	The government is in favour of a humane, solidarity and legal certainty of asylum and refugee policies and a managed immigration policy. The three parties Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which have ambitions to rule together, crack in this area. There is a strong connection from the Right to the main features of the message, as reflected in the comments also made by Greece. The Progress Party wishes to tighten up asylum and immigration policy, as stated above. Ørsal Johansen's articles. The Christian People's Party, through its comments, shows that they want strong liberalisation in this field. It would therefore be interesting to know what kind of asylum policy the representative of Greece thinks there will be so different views at any government change. Is asylum policy being liberalised? Will there be a narrowing of asylum policy, or will policy be something like that of the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2543	In my post I explained to the Right View, and the Right View coincides with the Government's vision. We are well pleased with the course taken by the government in asylum and immigration policy – a strict but fair asylum policy. So it's like different parties have different primary positions. It is a bit special in this situation that the party that has often gone top of the track in the panel debates I have participated in, and especially when the committee leader was Heikki Holmås, is SV. On repeated occasions, the SV has suggested that the Children's Storting Communication should lead to a strong liberalisation, that it should provide residence for long-term children, etc. We see practice or the result today: the government is firmly committed to a strict but fair asylum policy, and I am quite convinced that if there is a change of government, the parties that form part of a new government, without knowing who it is today, will also be able to agree on such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2551	Greece has gone through what we are going to get – if we get a new government – and the possible compromises that come about in this area. But does the representative of Greece think that it will be difficult to gather this view? Will it just be a continuation of the policy of the red-green government, or is there a need for a new policy in this area? It doesn't sound like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2556	The world is constantly changing, so what a possible new government is going to shape by politics depends on the environment around us. There may be major changes in the world – war, misery, refugees, etc., but I believe the main lines of Norwegian asylum policy will be firm. The reason for that is that if you look around in this hall, you see that 80-90 pst. The size of the population closes up to the policy now being pursued. But I'm not worried that this is going to be a difficult topic, because when I see that SV and the Workers' Party, which are really anti-pollutions on this issue, everything has been agreed – I guess there has not been any discussion at the Chamber either, you actually agree on this – then I expect it to be done in a civil government as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2561	Rose and a question. The rose goes on this: the representative opened up that it's important to have a practice that doesn't invite people to take refuge, or that kids take refuge. Then it's nice that the right has joined the comment that we actually don't know if it works that way – it says on page 15, at the top of the first column. I'm assuming that the Right is still attached to it. My question is: what are the concerns of the Right at the heart of the great local political commitment that not least many Right-Rapporteurs have to deal with different issues around them, including: The rapporteur in Bergen? In a previous housing debate today, the Right attached great importance to the fact that the sense was largely at municipal level and not at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2568	There is probably a little difference between regulatory matters and what is decided locally and a national policy on asylum and immigration policy. It is, after all, one of the core areas that the Right has always intended to be in the hands of the State, namely police and judicial authorities. That being said, I am very pleased that there is a great commitment on the part of our elected representatives – I also said in my contribution – that there is a great commitment on the part of individuals, organisations and so far also in all political parties. I also think that I can figure out some of the SVs who have gone into the gap for positions that go across the government's policy on asylum. It's okay to live with, but it's after all the Storting that has the final word in this case, and the Storting must have a consistent line. It's very easy to get torn by singles, everyone does, me too. But if you're going to weigh for and against, you have to find a balance sheet, and that balance sheet I think we've found good with this big message, which Aksel Hagen also agrees with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2575	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2578	Thank you to the rapporteur for very solid work, to the major fraction for demanding and important debates and to the Committee for a clean process. So it's Report. St. 27 for 2011–2012, Children on the run, we are discussing today. For us in SV, this is actually a brand day, because the message addresses very central issues related to children in flight and states that there is a need for changes. The main message in the message is that greater emphasis should be given to the best interests of children. Ensuring basic rights for children in Norway is an important political objective for the government, and it is in line with Norway’s international obligations, such as: consequences of the Children’s Convention. It is also – and it is good to note – in line with the main message from all the hearing bodies. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to make special mention of six important points in the message. First, the message explicitly states that the consideration of the best interests of children should be a fundamental consideration in the assessment of the humanitarian status of foreign administrations. The child’s relationship with Norway shall be particularly emphasised in that assessment, read on page 51, and Chapter 6 contains assessments, reflections or considerations on what this should mean and what it means in practice. Secondly, the message points out that foreign students – i.e. The UNEs practice has become progressively more stringent, and the government notes that UNE has placed too much emphasis on immigration-regulating considerations in some cases. In my opinion, this is a big message at its best. One puts the searchlight on practice and concludes that practice needs to be improved and points to how it should be improved. Thirdly, the message confirms that illegal residence is a less burdensome immigration regulatory consideration. This means that there is less room from now on to reject applications on the basis of illegal residence in cases where children have a strong connection with the kingdom, and it is best for children to stay in Norway. A fourth important measure by the government is to ensure good child-care skills at all levels of the foreign administration. This is important when we look at it in the context of the ambitions of the legislation and of this big message: we need to take more and not least better account of the best interests of children, because we want a better and wiser child-discipline exercise. It requires capacity at all stages, but not least competence, both in child-care issues and not least in how to get young people to participate in such complex processes that we are talking about here. The fifth thing I want to draw out is that the living conditions of children in reception are to be regularly monitored and evaluated. Many of us noticed that the Christian Tybring-Gjed of the Advance Party claimed in the NRK opinion a few weeks ago that at these receptions everything was kind of very well and the week money was very much so rusty. Fortunately, he did not get so much support for it. On the contrary, there are many who have filed the opposite view and the opposite suspicion – fine that we should now have a review. Finally, the message – I have already mentioned it – underlines that the right of young people to be heard should be an important part of the asylum process – it is to hear young people directly, not just indirectly through their representation. This is about taking care of a democratic fundamental right, which I think we appreciate more and more in all the contexts of our society, but not least it is a contribution to getting more quality into the process – so get the right decisions than we might have today. So here's a clear message. I would like to underline and appreciate the fact that Lise Christoffersen, the case rapporteur, operates with a very precise and important concept of the post-work of the law. That's exactly what this is all about. It is not necessary to amend a law or regulation, but it is necessary, through the post-work of the law, to prepare a post-work into the law just to clarify what is the intention of the law. So I don't think we're going to overdramatize that we've had a practice development that's gone the wrong way. It is not easy for a government to steer by political signals, and there is no defeat necessarily for that administration. But the more important and correct it must be – both for the administration we are talking about here, and not least for us who are responsible for the political signals to be given – that we are just getting to the clean-up that we are doing here, and giving a clear direction in the future for how the administration will operate here. In this respect, I would urge all the young people who have now received a final rejection – well 500 pieces – who have lived for a long time in Norwegian asylum recipients to promote a change request, so that we can clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2607	As Mr Hagen says, the Communication addresses some key issues and highlights some of the challenges we face in immigration and integration policy in Norway. Hagen also mentioned some positive things in the message. The Communication outlines a number of measures that the government intends to take, including: forced return. It says: ‘The government will strengthen the work on new return agreements.’ Is the representative Hagen satisfied that we are now going to strengthen the work on new return agreements? And is he satisfied with the return agreements that we have concluded, for example. with Somalia?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2619	As long as you are in order for someone not to stay here, but to be returned, a seafaring must be in order for it to be done properly, and that it must be done through return agreements with the countries concerned. But then it is important for a good return agreement to be put in place, which is just a guarantee that those countries that are going to take back refugees and young people make sure that they come back to caregivers and can live a life that is also acceptable to our standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2624	I sat and listened to Aksel Hagen's posts and was turned off that it must be directed at people who do not have the opportunity to follow politics closely. For SV has behaved very idealistically outside this hall by saying that the best children should always have the right to drive – they have said that it is an absolute value. But then it turns out that they agree to sign a message in a government in which they participate, which says that the best of the children is a relative value – it should be weighed against other considerations, of which immigration policy concerns are the most important. Then my question to Hagen is: how does it feel to participate in a government that has submitted a message without changing a paragraph in a single circular, a single rule or a single law? Is it true that taboos are more important than children?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2630	This suggests that Michael Tetzschner has not attended all the debates and reading posts I have had through this process since the message arrived. We have said that there are great opportunities based on existing legislation to improve practices. That's what we said when the message came, and I've got even more faith that it's right through the debates I've been involved in. We tightened our legislation, among other things. in 2007. So it's in many ways in place. We have said that we should follow the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, it has also been incorporated into our Code. We think it's just about getting a better practice, and we get that not least by improving the skills of everyone who needs to sit and practice. So in SV we are very satisfied with the message and convinced that it will take the situation for the young people here, in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2639	I'm not going to confront Aksel Hagen with questions I know we agree on, but I want to address another big challenge. It is all the asylum seekers who now live in asylum-seekers for a long, long time, including many children who have been resident but who do not live in the municipalities. It's a huge challenge because it leads to a passivity that makes integration slower and difficult later on. The Christian People's Party has, among other things: proposed to increase the State contribution to refugee housing in municipalities from 20 to 40 pst. as one action among several. But what will SV do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2644	I think it's a poorly hidden secret that the irritation over this situation is increasing throughout the municipal committee and not least on the red-green side. Now we know at the same time that there is a very close contact between KS and the department in this matter. We know that the KS will still have an opportunity to find an amicable arrangement, so that the Kommune-Norway Sea is able to carry out a better settlement. We want to spend some more time and see if this can't be solved, before we possibly go into it with harder tools. There is some question about money, but there is also some question about looking at this group as a large resource for the municipality in which they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2649	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2652	Asylum policy is a complex policy area, with difficult dilemmas between the consideration of individuals in vulnerable situations and the consideration of a consistent, coherent and fair policy. These balances become extremely difficult for children, whether they come alone or together with family. Regardless of the background, children’s migrants will be in a particularly vulnerable situation, and therefore extra attention should be paid to these cases. This applies from the start of the search process and until the child may have been allowed to stay and be integrated into the Norwegian community. Additional consideration must also be given to children in cases where they are the subject of a refusal and shall return either on their own or with family or other caregivers. In recent years, the proportion of children seeking protection in Norway has been below 30 pst. of the total number of asylum seekers. For various reasons, many of these children and their families have been in a situation they experience that is unexplained for too long. Although in many cases this is due to the fact that they have not even returned after final rejection, it will in any case be a burden for children to have their childhood put on hold. The reception of asylum is not a good framework for a child's growth. It is good that we have now received a big message specifically for this group, which contributes to an overall approach to both legislation, practice and policy. Human dignity, humanistic traditions and the international work of Norway to help persecuted people underpin the Central Party's asylum and refugee policy. We must pursue a humane, solidarity and legal certainty of asylum and refugee policy towards those seeking protection in Norway. At the same time, as a joint committee does, we must recognise that increasing migration cannot solve the problems created by an unfair distribution of world resources. International efforts to help as much as possible close to where they live therefore need to be strengthened. The Committee has agreed that it is a priority task to prevent lonely children from making dangerous travels without need of protection, where they are often vacated organised criminal groups smuggling people for economic profit. Refugee children are a comprehensive theme where an overall approach is needed. I would like to summarise the measures and priorities in three main areas: they will prevent children from leaving their home country without need of protection; they will protect vulnerable children in Norway; and they will prevent children from staying for a long time in an unexplained situation. Regardless of residence status, it is important that children and young people offer meaningful activities. In the case of single minors with temporary authorisations and for those who have received a final refusal and are waiting for a return, the offer should be geared to the knowledge they can directly benefit from when returning to the country of origin. This could be done, for example, by: relate to language skills or practical skills. In the public debate on refugee children, the focus is particularly on long-term children. The interpretation of the UN Children’s Convention that the best interests of children should be a fundamental concern in all kinds of matters relating to children is central and has been discussed. In the Communication, the Government considers that recent practice in dealing with complaints by the Department of Foreign Affairs suggests that, in some cases, more emphasis is placed on immigration policy considerations than was foreseen at the time of the adoption of the legislation. The message we are examining today highlights the emphasis of key elements in the assessment to be made by the best interests of children. Of the factors to be assessed, the notification refers to age, total length of residence in Norway, whether the child has attended school or kindergarten, whether it speaks Norwegian, whether it is taking part in leisure activities, or whether it is otherwise specifically related to Norwegian society. In particular, it is important to prevent children from coming into such a situation that they remain in reception for a long time. The notification focuses on shorter processing times, faster return and faster residence of those who are allowed to stay. The red-green government has strengthened the rights of children in foreign legislation and further strengthens their position through the current communication. Nevertheless, it will still be the case that some, including families with children, are not granted asylum in Norway. In this case, it is because the Norwegian foreign authorities in several instances have considered it safe for them to return, and there are also no strong human considerations that suggest that they should be. In other cases, taking into account the best interests of the child will be so burdensome that the child may remain in Norway, although it may be safe to return. The notification clarifies how the provision is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2675	I want to start with a quote: "The way I go is just until I turn 18, then I don't know. Then I don't have a way." This said a lone minor asylum seeker aged 16 years to Red Barna when they traveled around to hear what children were doing on asylum reception. 149 unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are currently sitting around the country and grunting until they turn 18, because the lone minor asylum seekers also receive a birthday present on the 18th birthday. The gift is from the world's best country to live in, but is neither a driver's license, nor a car, nor a grand celebration. The gift is a letter where with a single sentence it is black on white that they must now leave the country. Leave the best country in the world. Abandoned friends. Leave a life of safety and enter a life alone, consisting of uncertainty and fear. This is the result of the government introducing in the autumn of 2008 a number of restrictive measures in the field of asylum policy. Among these measures was the introduction of what were known as limited permits without the right to renewal for lone minor asylum seekers over 16 years of age, a system that allows children between 16 and 18 years of age to stay only until they reach 18 years of age, then to be thrown out of the country – all in order to save money. This is a practice that requires these young people to live unpredictablely, with life waiting. Norway treats these young people in a way that affects them, among other things. their schooling, social life and mental health — everything to save money. Studies show that many of these young people live with severe mental disorders, not only because of previous traumas in their home country and experiences during their flight, but also because of the difficult situation in their lives in which they live with limited permits in Norway. This happens with the richest government of the time, which is going to save money. The Christian People’s Party believes that we simply cannot maintain a system that has caused many young people unnecessary and severe suffering. Therefore, the Christian People's Party today proposes that limited residence permits should no longer be granted. I hope that the government, if they do not support it today, will listen anyway. I would also like to say something about the message's treatment of long-term asylum children. The government says that immigration policy is not being practised as intended. The best interests of children are not put ahead of immigration-regulating considerations, as intended. The question that arises is as follows: Does the government not know the consequences of their own policies, does it not have control over their administration, or will they not now acknowledge the consequences of their policies? The government responds with disclaimer of liability and relaxes responsibility to the non-resident administration. The government owes it to the government not to follow the government's intentions. On the other hand, the Foreign Service states that if the government wants a change, the government must make a regulation. Then it strikes me as strange that the government does not follow the management's advice, for once and for all to get the matter out of the world. The government itself claims that they want change. Then why don't they do what is required to make that change? One gets the impression that the government is paralysed. I need to address a further breach of promises from the current government: both Soria Moria I and Soria Moria II state that care for lone minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age would be transferred to child protection. This is an invaluable measure to prevent the disappearance of lone minor asylum seekers, while providing a better and more comprehensive offer for this group. This is also recommended and pointed out by the United Nations Children’s Committee. It is therefore disappointing that this is still being done, and that children do not receive the offer they have been promised. The elevators are black on white, but they are no more valuable than an air lock – a Soria Moria. I should have liked to talk longer, but rather come back later in the debate, because the message addresses many important issues. The praise is to be given to the government: the message is not only about long-term asylum children or temporary stays, but also addresses very many other important issues on which it is important that we focus. For so long, I hesitate to take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party has made in this setting. I would also recommend my group to support the Left's proposal No. 8 and No 13th@item: inlistbox The other proposals I believe are taken care of in the proposals made by the Christian People's Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2702	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2707	We are in a situation where 3 500 people are in reception for asylum – many of them children – and are waiting for residence in a Norwegian municipality. In many municipalities, the Christian People's Party refuses to receive the number requested by the IMDI. It's like this in Oslo, Ski, Lindesnes, Bodø, Klepp and Ashim, to name a few. What is the message of Bekkevold's representative to his party colleagues in these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2714	I just raised that question – in my reply to the representative Aksel Hagen – and pointed out, among other things. on what the Christian People's Party wants to contribute to make municipalities more capable of receiving refugees who need housing. Among other things, I pointed. on what our central government has said – and made a proposal – namely to increase the state contribution to housing for refugees to be settled, from 20 p.m. up to 40 pst., as one of several actions. I believe that we cannot just leave the responsibility for our competent municipal politicians – no matter what kind of party they belong to – here we must also make our contributions from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2719	I perceive that the Christian People's Party believes that the municipalities will get more money, but let me just understand this correctly: when the Christian People's Party votes against proposals from, for example, the Christian People's Party. The working party and SV about the settlement of several refugees, so is this about money?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2724	Yes, I hope Håkon Haugli does not suggest anything else. Very often – at least that’s the feedback I get from our competent municipal politicians – it’s just that the housing situation is such that it’s difficult to get more people to live in. From our point of view, we try to help municipalities by proposing more state contributions, not only in the case of housing grants, but also in the case of the integration grant, which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is underfunded. This will be a very important contribution, which can enable municipalities to receive more refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2730	So it's the money that finally decides when it applies to the municipal politicians from the Christian People's Party. But that's not what's my main question. The representative Bekkewold held a very committed post against temporary suspension, which I thought was very, very good, and very committed and emotional. Does it mean that the representative Becquerad can guarantee that if it is to become a bourgeois government, the Christian People's Party will demand – as an absolute requirement – that temporary withdrawals end?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2737	My task here today – as it is the task of the SVs and all other parties – is to tell about our own policies, and I have now expressed what the Christian People's Party believes in this matter, even in the case of temporary stay. We are going to confront that with both the Right and the Left – and perhaps also the Progress Party – but we are not changing the policy in this area even though we have said that we will talk with all the non-socialist parties. Our policy is firm, and that's what I'm expressing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2742	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2745	I think there are many around the country who are listening to this debate today. There are many who, after someone's names, can probably now let themselves be torn apart by listening to individual ships – a sport that is very noble in this hall when we discuss, for example. health and social benefits in Norway or other injustices that occur but are not so noble when we talk about asylum children. Then we should probably be a little bit more emotional. In March, Response's analysis carried out a poll that showed that what's the majority in this room is quite far from what most people think is fair. 50 pst. believes that there should be a three-year rule, which is also much more liberal than what the Left stands for in this case. Yes, even among a large majority of the government's voters, it was clear that you wanted to have such a rule. In March, the Left suggested that all of these things be paused, because we should wait for this message. We didn't get a majority for that, and we understand why. For what we got wasn't a big message that changed politics, but one – yes, as an old community teacher, I have to say that this was a really good discussion task, with arguments for and against and facts and all this. Knut Storberget once said that two-three years is a sea of time in a child's life, while today's Minister of Justice says that when things are assessed and you've got a no, it's a no, and changing the law is not topical. I would like to admit that very many of these matters are difficult. It is important to have equal treatment. In the spring we saw the 444 who at that time had lived more than three years at the reception. For many of them, the procedure has taken an unreasonable amount of time, and many of them become a victim of setting an example, an example of being no longer than what the law has adopted. If these examples were to work, there should not be anyone left in Norway who broke the rules that the government has set up here. But the issues are difficult. Neither does the Left believe that everyone should be in any case, but we believe that in the case of those who have been here for a long time, it must be a value that children's stay, children's contact and connection to the rich roads more than adults' choices have affected their possibilities. Asylum reception is a bad place for children to grow up. We believe that you should have a great clean-up, where you put a line in people's lives – where you either say you should be returned, or you should be – and not put people's lives on hold. I can give an example: right now there is a family in Follo with three children. They have been in Norway for seven years — also in church asylum. Youngsters in that family, in eight years, only remember Norway. But she also remembers the little brother who is buried here in the country. Father got a job as long as he was allowed to, until all the work permits were withdrawn. Now the family lives in a completely different everyday life, with anxiety, desperation and depression, without seeing the future as a family with such opportunities could have had in a place like Follo. I believe that one must be without empathy for not understanding the difficult situation such families are actually in. We have tabled a number of proposals today, which I am promoting on behalf of the Left. I believe that these proposals are about putting into practice the limits we should have in the law, we should have a binding legal text. That's what we're here for, like big ones, we're going to adopt rules based on what we want, and not send weak signals through discussion tasks to the Stortinget. There are now some cases in the Supreme Court concerning asylum children. I hope that the Supreme Court has a greater heart rate than the government has in this message. I also hope that the Children's Convention will be strengthened by this treatment, as a legal protection for children. Then I will finally make an explanation of vote – it is called when I just have to explain how I vote myself and not encourage a group! We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We are so loud that we vote in favour of all the proposals of the Christian People's Party, with the exception of No. 2, which we believe is a draft budget, and which we propose in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2766	Then the representative Trine Skei Grande brought up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2771	The left is a small party that often uses big words, and today we have heard the Left leader reduce the processing of the big message to "a discussion task", and that "the message contains little new". So then I think it's time to ask the leader of the left if she's got herself into the current right. For three of the six proposals proposed by the Left today, is the current law, or is it discussed in the communication, so they do not represent anything new either?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2776	It is possible that the Workers' Party is then a large party that is characterized by small words, but that is a good reason for the policy in this matter. We're well-informed about what's current right, but what we're doing, for example. is that we ask that we actually define what the law in force is, that we do not create words that are unclear on the part of the legislator, which the government refuses to define. We have proposed to make clear definitions of what this code actually contains, and there are some of the definitions we are calling for in our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2783	I think it's also very true, as Trine Skei Grande says, that there are a lot of people who listen to us today. Then I wonder very much about the Left's approach to this. I accept a disagreement that goes on that, on the one hand, as we claim, we have a 2007 regulation, which is basically good enough, and then there are issues about getting better practices in different ways and clarifying practices. The second is to make some regulatory changes, as suggested by the Left. I accept these two approaches, but I really wonder that the Left has a need today to almost ridicule a big message and say that it has no hope in itself, when the message says, side up and down – and when so many in debates, not least professionals, lawyers, have said to me – that here are the good opportunities through a change of practice more in accordance with the intention of the law. I think the Left is going to put the party political game behind us a little bit and help us get a better practice, which is more in line with the primary position of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2788	I'm not busy with the game at all; I'm just busy with these kids. When we were making the Foreign Affairs Act, we suggested this. We said this was going to happen. We were shocked. Now the government says that they have changed this by sending signals. We don't think it's going to happen now either. NOAS writes an article in the Evening Post today, and I quote: ‘NOAS has looked at six UNE decisions on cases of long-term children. All decisions have been made since the government presented Children on the flight notification in June. Based on these decisions, it is impossible to see any new unique practices. On the contrary, UNE continues to place greater emphasis on the fact that the family has missed the exit period than that children have lived in Norway for up to 10 years.’ This is practice based on it, and I don't think you should misplace something that's so clear. We said the last time we dealt with the law, and we're going to say it again, because we think politicians have to give clear signals through decisions, and not diffuse signals through messages.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2798	In proposal No 8 proposes that the foreign regulation be amended and clarified so that children are considered to have special ties with the kingdom if they have been in Norway for more than three years. Then they will receive a residence permit. My question is: do you think that someone at all will return voluntarily, if it becomes such that it is impossible to return and be able to be here for three years to be premiered with a permanent residence permit? Is it then someone who will return voluntarily, and in case it will be fair to those who return voluntarily, that those who manage to avoid returning for three years will receive a permanent residence grant in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2805	When I hear the tone of the Center Party, I understand what SV has had to contend with in this government. That is not what we are proposing. We're just suggesting that we make a tipping point for when children's best actually weigh heavier. We're not saying that everyone who's been in Norway for more than three years is going to be allowed to stay, but we want to tighten up the legislation by actually making a tipping point where children's connection to the kingdom is actually worth more than immigration-regulating considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2813	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2816	Today, millions of people are fleeing or displaced in the world. Very many of these are children who have left their homeland, either with the family or alone. Many people have Europe as their goal. This is a very risky journey. Some people reach Europe’s asylum systems, while an unknown number gets stuck in unworthy living conditions or loses life along the way. At the same time, therefore, we need to ensure protection for the children who need it and to pursue a policy that does not encourage others to embark on a dangerous journey towards Europe. The best interests of the child are central. The notification makes clear which areas the government wants to prioritise and highlights multi-purpose actions: they must prevent children from travelling from their home country without need of protection, protect vulnerable children in Norway and prevent children from staying for a long time in an unexplained situation. Children coming to Norway alone are particularly vulnerable. There has been a recent public discussion about single minors who receive temporary permits pending their return. The protection needs of children are recognised, but we must assume that many lone minor asylum seekers have not left their home country because they have been persecuted. At the same time, the return of lone minors is very demanding, as caregivers are difficult to track down without the child’s or the child’s family being involved. For the sake of children, we must pursue a policy that does not give parents an incentive to send their children to Europe. In my view, it is an important measure to grant a temporary permit to young people over 16 years of age, pending their return at the age of 18, when they have no other basis for staying in Norway than that we do not know their care provider in their home country. During this period, however, we need to ensure that these young people are taken good care of. In accordance with the recommendation of the United Nations Children’s Committee to equip the children with the skills and skills they will need if they return to their home country, we have created a specific training programme for this group. Today, many children have lived for a long time in Norway, without having received either them or their families a residence permit. These issues raise difficult dilemmas, particularly in relation to the balance against immigration-regulating considerations. We will initiate an external evaluation of how children’s situation is highlighted in the appeal proceedings. I have noticed that the Committee also wants information on the family immigration legislation of protected persons to be included in this evaluation. I agree that this is an important aspect to consider, and believe that this can be made more useful if it is kept separate from this evaluation. It is important to give children a meaningful everyday life in reception. I have therefore invited responsible sectoral authorities and humanitarian organisations to contribute to this. In order to ensure that children do not remain for a long time in Norway without a residence permit, it is essential that asylum applications are treated promptly, as well as that return takes place quickly after rejection. The government has therefore taken action to ensure a faster procedure for families with children, and we have strengthened the return work. At the same time, the government has made clear the current provision for residence due to the relationship of children with Norway. I assume that this is clarifying the work of the foreign agencies, also in a way that can benefit individuals. My wish with the message has been to contribute to a knowledge-based debate on the major dilemmas that children are facing. I am therefore pleased that the communication has aroused interest in the UN High Commissioner for Refugees as well. I myself recently met the UNHCR’s Nordic representative, and I note that also in Geneva it is said that Norway has taken an important initiative with the message to get the search light on the alarming conditions we see in relation to today’s international children’s emigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2845	Today, therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes to amend the foreign regulations §8-8, so that there will no longer be any opportunity to grant limited residence permits to lone minor asylum seekers. I have understood the hall there that we are going to be downcast today. But my question to the Council of State is, Will she nevertheless take an initiative in evaluating this system, so that we can produce all the sides, all the consequences, that this regulation leads to for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2850	I won't rule that out. And what's important is always asking what's the alternative. I defend today's system, because that kind of permit also creates clarity in a situation that is very demanding for them. They get an answer to some of the things they may be wondering most about, while we also have a basis to give an offer that also makes a return to their home country when that time comes, easier. However, returning a person under the age of 18 without telling us who the carers are, and thus providing a proper care service, I do not believe that it is possible to do so under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2857	I'm going to try to get a clarification out of the Council of States, because the Council of State clearly believes that there must be some boundaries somewhere with children who might have been here up to the age of 18 – until they are authoritative. Maria Amelie, for example, came to Norway when she was a child. She was not a small child, but she was a child under 18 years old, according to the Children's Convention. What would the rules be like if she had been 8 years when she came to Norway, or if she had been 2 years when she came to Norway? Does the Council of State consider it reasonable to allow immigration policy considerations to exceed the life span of the child in Norway, in any case, or does it consider that there is some point where there is a gap between the rights of the child and our need for immigration regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2864	The best thing for children is a fundamental consideration. Without discussing individual issues, Norwegian foreign legislation limits us, and that there may be important issues of immigration policy that need to be balanced against the fundamental need and the duty we have to care for the best interests of children. It may in some cases refuse to stay. It is then important that these matters do not, however, constitute a breach of the Convention on the Rights of the Child with regard to the individual child concerned. It is this specific assessment that has to be made by the foreign authorities. It is not individual matters that are dealt with in this Chamber. We have a system for that – which offers the individual good guarantees of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2871	Back to my first question: I interpreted the Council of State as saying that she would not refuse to initiate an evaluation of the limited residence permit scheme. At the same time, she defends the system, and of course I respect it. But that means that the first part of the answer can give some hope that the government is at least not afraid of the answers such an evaluation will provide. We have some studies that tell us how these kids are doing. This means that the government is not afraid of the answers to such an evaluation – as she gives a certain opening for us to get such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2878	We have a foreign legislation that must also withstand a critical searchlight. The broad review we have in the message about children in flight also contains information that we will evaluate UNE's handling of the relevant issues. Since we have single minor asylum seekers who in this context are also children, I will not exclude this. But if it is appropriate to make an arrogance of that evaluation, so that part of this issue is also included in the assessment, I keep it open.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2883	I find that I can't get out of the Council if she has an age limit for when it's reasonable. In my reply with SV I referred to an article that NOAS has printed in the Evening Post today, where they have gone through a number of matters. SV has sold this big message as that now we are going to have a dramatic change in practice. We haven't seen that yet. Is the Council of State concerned that it is not possible to see a change in practice? For at least some people, this message meant a big change of policy. Is the Council of State concerned that this clearly has not reached those who are sitting and taking the decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2890	This is an important message, a message that makes it clear how the foreign regulation § 8-5 should be practised. It is an important document to ensure a practice that the Storting has intended to be. I do not know if I have heard individual representatives from SV call the changes that the notification has mentioned as dramatic. But to be clear in an area as demanding as the Norwegian Foreign Administration is, I think, important for the sake of children, in the interests of families, in the interests of asylum seekers who are entitled to protection, who have a right to have their cases dealt with. If there is no basis for asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis, I think it is important that we have been clear about it all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2898	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2901	The news of child abuse has received a lot of attention and has been eagerly debated. It's natural, all the time this is about children. Many come together with their families, others are lone minors who come to Norway alone. Several single minors have said that they are behind a very dangerous journey to Norway. Reports show that too many are victims of a cynical game. The assessment of each asylum application will be essential if children, either with their families or as individuals, are to be allowed to stay in Norway. Someone can't stay and can leave the country. More and more return voluntarily, and where there is no voluntary return, police force returns. The notification indicates that predictability and stability are important for children and that the time spent in uncertainty between decision and exit should be as short as possible. It is therefore appropriate to pay attention to the fact that decisions affecting children are to be implemented without undue delay. It is equally important to ensure a rapid residence in the municipalities of the families with children or the lone minors who have received a residence permit. All those who have been denied their applications for protection, are obliged to leave the country. As a general rule, the period between 7 and 30 days is applicable, but this period may be extended by individual assessments. For lone minors and families with children who have not been allowed to stay, voluntary return is encouraged and assistance is provided to carry out the journey. It is important that children seeking protection in Norway receive the necessary information on the situation of the child or family related to the application and any refusal. On behalf of the Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA, in 2010, a study on what motivates renunciation of families with children was given in 2010. The report underlines the family’s need for predictability and recommends that non-return families should be quickly returned. Further studies of motivation for return are done by the research foundation Fafo and will be able to give us several points to strengthen this policy. The government wants to strengthen the return work aimed at single minors. The government will facilitate the return of lone minors with a refusal or limited residence in such a way as to allow them to re-establish their residence in their home country. There are different reasons why single minors spend their long journey ending in Norway or in another European country. However, UNHCR’s study of Afghan single minors shows that many feel that they are travelling to Europe on behalf of the family. Therefore, it may be the family in the home country that has the key to allowing the return of those who have been refused. The majority of lone minors from Afghanistan and Iraq are boys over 15 years of age. The government, as I said, wants to strengthen and improve the return work of lone minors. One part of this is the establishment of care services in the country of origin, initially in Afghanistan and Iraq. This provision of care is described as a youth home and should be an offer not only to returned lone minors but also to offer to local youth. The purpose is to provide comprehensive reintegration services in the form of housing/internet, day-care, vocational training or training, and assistance for the detection of family and for any return journey. This work is ongoing and it has been important for the Norwegian authorities to have a good dialogue with the authorities in Afghanistan and Iraq, respectively. The centre of Kabul aims at holding 100 seats, 25 of which are assigned to local youth. The number of arrivals of lone minors from Iraq has declined significantly, but it is still possible to set up a care facility in the city of Erbil in Northern Iraq. These measures will provide young people with a new opportunity in their own country. It is very amazing that the Christian People's Party in its proposal asks the government to complete the planned work with care centers. The government also takes responsibility for those who have been denied their application for protection. It should also be part of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2927	I think we got an interesting clarification regarding SV in a previous line change. Then we certainly got Aksel Hagen's word that the message might not contain the new one. Axle Hagen was pleased with the cleanups, I think it was the expression he used, that took place in 2007. They were good enough for SV. Then he put his trust in the fact that this message said something about competence at the case manager level. We can all agree that it is better that there are competent case handlers than that there are mediocre case handlers or bad case handlers. So we're going to be in on that. But the interesting thing is that after this debate today, it doesn't change a single comma in a single circular, not a paragraph in a single regulation or law. It's actually also the case, if you want to be a little formal, that we attach this message to the protocol. It does not even rank as a legal source for those hoping for a different administrative practice. Then there could be a little hope if you supported the Right's proposal, because then you would be able to open up, in general cases, a guide to the judgement of UNE, but then it's not the Storting as a legislator who's inside. This is because it has been opened up to the Ministry and the administrative system otherwise to make sensible decisions within the rules with which Aksel Hagen was satisfied as early as 2007. As an example, Maria Amelie, too, has been so much discussed today. I remember that at the time I actually disagreed with the decisions that had been made, and I felt that Maria Amelie could become. Then SV said that we had to change the rules, while I thought it was a good team to say that it was a bad idea – that she could be according to the rules that were at the time, and that now SV is satisfied with is what they are. So today we agree that the rules are good enough. It gives a very wide and fine coalition in this room when the Right and SV also support the message. Then to the representative, Bekkevold. He argued against temporary permits, i.e. the fact that 16-17-year-olds can be here, but must go home when they are no longer children. Then we have to ask ourselves, what is the alternative to Contradiction? Is it that they get thrown out right away? But that's not possible, because you don't know enough about your care in your home country. The option must then probably be that they get an automatic lock-in, without waiting for them to be 18 years old. But that would lead to that we had actually opened a door for a special group who could then claim that their return relationship was unknown. That would be a strange basis for favoring a group applying for asylum. Then I also have to say: since I know that the representative Becquerading is a theologian, he is probably well aware of the difference between consequence and sensory layering. Sensory ethics means that you have an idealistic attitude, and as a private individual, you can meet your fellow human beings, invite everyone you meet who doesn't have the guts to stay with until the place doesn't go to. But as a legislator, we have to have consistency ethics. In that case, we might have to bear the impact of such a misunderstood proposal, which Mr Becquerad has argued for, namely that we would have more temporary asylum seekers, who were going to meet our asylum recipients to a completely different extent. We would probably have doubled the population of our asylum recipients if we were so idealistic that we followed the advice of the representative Becquerad. Finally, I would also like to say something that is on my mind, since we've been told that the administration should be more competent. I am concerned about the legal certainty that we offer to those who are applying for fair treatment, because we have a fair foreign policy. They should also be sure that they have good legal advice. I have noticed that the UDI has allowed it to be carried out, through Oxford Research, a study of whether it is such that the lawyers do not always meet the demands that you have to expect. I would also like to ask the Council of State to consider whether it is more possible to articulate an expression of what is expected of the lawyers in their assistance of weak groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2944	Today it is 23 years since the adoption of the Children's Convention in the United Nations. I have used today to discuss with professionals, researchers, leaders and child protection children how we can strengthen children's participation, participation and the right to be heard in the sector for which I am responsible, namely child protection. The right to be heard is provided for in Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is one of the ‘golden elements’ of the Convention. The right to be heard and to be heard in matters relating to a sea is very important. It is important for adults, and it is important for children, especially for the most vulnerable children. There is nothing different about asylum-seekers, because, as we know, asylum-children are primarily children. Making sure that children are heard and respected is a big and important task. With this message we send a clear signal to the administration: The children should have a greater focus. The government and the majority of the population say: we want to ensure child-care skills at all levels of the foreign administration. We will demand that the child-care skills of the management body be taken into account in recruitment. Landinfo will provide broad documentation on the life situation of children in conflict countries. We will carry out an external evaluation of how the situation of children is highlighted in the UN proceedings. The project shall also assess the use and need for oral consultation of children. We need to ensure that the reception situation of children is monitored and evaluated at regular intervals. Here I would like to add that the children's voice must also be made clear here. And: In cases where a long time has passed since the case was investigated in the UDI or where the assessment theme is different from the previous treatment, we note that it is particularly important to consider the need for further information and consultation of children, including the need for oral consultation. This may in particular apply to the processing of requests for conversion justified by children’s relationship with Norway. Today, many children have lived for a long time in Norway, without their families being granted a residence permit. This can hit children and young people particularly hard. It is important for us to avoid children staying for a long time in such a situation. In 2007, the government introduced a provision for special emphasis to be placed on children’s links with Norway. Then we see that UN practice suggests that in some cases more emphasis is placed on immigration-regulating considerations than was foreseen at the time the legislation was adopted, while practice appears to be less unambiguous. The Government therefore considers that there is a need to clarify how the provision is to be understood. In this way, we will ensure non-discrimination and a practice that takes care of the child’s best interests in line with that of the Stortinge. An individual, thorough and comprehensive assessment of the best interests of the individual child must be carried out. The government will also work to ensure that no more children remain disproportionate for a long time in Norway without a residence permit. We will therefore take action to speed up the procedure and quickly return to those who are being rejected. The best interests of the child shall be of fundamental importance in any decision affecting the child. I would like to highlight a central point from the Storing Message: In order to assess the relationship between children and Norway, both legal and illegal residence periods have to be counted. For children, it doesn't matter if it was while they were here that they made friends, learned Norwegian and went to kindergarten or school. I would also like to say that sails if it is such that immigration-regulating considerations can still be crucially important, even in matters relating to children, we state in this message: ‘At some point, however, consideration for the best interests of the child will have to be given to other considerations’. Finally, the situation of single minor asylum seekers is subject to much debate. I mean, SV and the government are good. We need to discuss both how we can make the world safer for children, how we can ensure that child care is better cared for, how war and conflict affect children, what problems hit boys especially, and which particularly affect girls. We need to discuss how we can facilitate an asylum process based on what we know about children, on children's experiences and on taboo topics such as violence, sexual abuse and other difficult conditions affecting many of these children. And we need to have better knowledge of traumas and offer more children treatment. My responsibility as Minister of Children is to ensure that we care for children. My constitutional responsibility as Minister of Children's Affairs is about child protection and housing. Children under the age of 15 are under the care of child protection, and therefore my constitutional responsibility. The BLD shall now evaluate the functioning of care centres. This is where the own views of the children will be important. This will provide us with a better basis for assessing how we can improve the follow-up of those children over the age of 15. In addition, I want to work for a quick settlement. A project is now being tested with the direct placement of lone minor refugees. The system shall be tested for two years. The children are placed directly from transit reception, and we avoid long reception stays. The project will be evaluated and we will assess how the experience from the project can be used in the further settlement work. Moreover, the rate of residence must increase. The government is working to cooperate with the local government sector, which will mean that municipalities will have to commit more to settle refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2980	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2983	The message focuses on children’s rights and, in particular, on the best interests of children. But then we have situations where families are refused and have to return. Many remain — they are seeking to make a change — and the children remain in reception, in a situation that is not for the child’s best. What does the Council of State think is the best motivation for those who have been refused to return?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2990	The answer to that will depend on the specific case. For some people it may be that you give better assistance, for example. increasing the contribution when repatriation takes place. For others it may be that you make a quick forced return, but I would like to add that then there will be child-care competence on the return, and you have to take the kids into account. For others, it may be a good conversation and motivation. For some, it is not possible to motivate well to return, because they are simply convinced that if they return, they will be exposed to things – something that we would also have related to in such a way that we would hesitate to go back. So the answer to that will be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e2997	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for agreeing to participate in this debate. I also think it is important to hear the voice of the Minister for Children when we talk about a topic as important as children on the run. So I want to start by saying thank you for participating in this important debate. Both in Soria Moria I and in Soria Moria II, the government states that care for lone minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age is to be transferred to child protection. This has not yet been implemented. This government has now ruled for seven years. I am becoming quite impatient, and I wonder if the Council of State has any timetable for when this system comes into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3004	Let me start by thanking you for the rose. It was unusually pleasant. I think it is important that the Minister for Children is present in such a debate, especially because the undersigned has been involved in negotiating parts of the text of the notification, but most importantly because the children of asylum are children. I am responsible for parts of the area that relate to these children, among others. what the representative now addresses. Next year, we will evaluate how care centres have worked. Then we'll have a better basis to assess how we're going to handle children over the age of 15. It is not certain that care centers will answer for them. There could be other things that are more appropriate. But I am concerned that, first of all, we need to have a child protection decision, we have, we use approx. Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bn, Bnt, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bn, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, B, B, B, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, Bt, Bt, B, B, B, B, We've got a lot of feedback on that from people who've investigated this, people who work with these kids and from the kids' sea, and we have to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3011	I'm also going to be okay and not ask about the message, because I really think the Left and the SV agree on a lot of the policy in this area. But I want to tell a story from an asylum provider that I've been to, and that – child-care professionally – shows the qualities of children. I met my mother and son, who lived in Norway all my life. He is nine years old, speaks Norwegian fluently and has attended Norwegian kindergarten and Norwegian school. Mother has found her son back in the last few years, but has been denied. This means that she does not receive Norwegian education. I was with a nine-year-old who spoke Norwegian fluently, but who could not communicate with his mother. The mother was completely disappointed, and I get that very well. They are in a very difficult situation when they live on an asylum reception – that is a very unexplained situation. In this situation she experiences having a nine-year-old who she can't talk to. Does the Minister for Children think it sounds like an ideal situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3021	It would be alarming if the Minister for Children said it was an ideal situation. No, it's not an ideal situation. The first thing we did when we took over in government in 2005 was to reintroduce Norwegian training in reception. It wasn't for no reason. So I don't know any more about this particular single thing, but it probably makes the representative Trine Skei Grande and can ask principleal questions based on it, about what we can do to correct the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3030	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3033	I can take another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3038	If it is the case that the representative Skei Grande wants the last line, then this is the reason – be so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3041	Yes, because then I get the opportunity to elaborate on this a little bit more. The reason Mother loses Norwegian education is that she has been rejected. When you are rejected, you lose your Norwegian education. That makes sense to me in most cases, but I think it must be an exception in those cases where child protection should intervene because you are unable to communicate. So my question to the Council of State is whether she can look at the legislation – that based on a pediatric assessment, the mother should have received the Norwegian education she needed to communicate with her child. It's a pretty simple rule change. This occurred when Norwegian education was taken away for those who had been refused.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3050	I will always be interested in looking at how the legislation turns out for children – also legislation that I am not responsible for. But it is clear that there is something different when I do not have the constitutional responsibility for the legislation. Then it's not something I can just sort out, but it's nevertheless such that we can have a dialogue about it. When it comes to the issue of the involvement of child protection in such a situation, where one cannot communicate with one another, it is a topic that we can address. We are interested in knowing how child protection deals with children in reception. We get signals that it's variable. In some places you are good at taking good care of these children — elsewhere not. We're going to follow that up more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3057	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3060	From 2007 until the end of 2009, there was a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers who reported being a single minor, which resulted in Norway being the second most single-year-old asylum seeker in Europe in 2009. We went from 403 asylum seekers in 2007. We had 1,374 in 2008, and in 2009 we reached the peak of 2,500 lone minor asylum seekers. There was no sustainable situation. The increase in arrivals resulted in high costs of reception, processing, etc. In 2009, Norway spent more than 1.3 billion. kr only in reception and care centres for lone minor asylum seekers. In addition, the challenge was to deal with the settlement of the residents. This raises issues about Norway in a broader refugee policy perspective, using disproportionate resources to assist a limited group that usually does not come from the most deprived families in the country of origin, many of whom left their home country for reasons other than having a real need for protection. We believe that it would be irresponsible not to focus on the knowledge that has gradually been gained about the dangers to which lone minor asylum seekers are exposed on their journey to Norway. It also appears that reasons other than the need for protection may be the basis for parents to send their children out on their own on a journey to western countries. The possibility of a permanent stay in Norway may result in more children who do not need protection being sent away from family and networks to travel to Norway. In this context, it is also pointed out that the need to protect children from being in a burdensome and serious situation is one of the reasons why, under the Supreme Court, restrictions on children’s rights may be justified in the context of international law. Based on the overall picture of the situation, the Norwegian authorities found it necessary to introduce restrictive measures targeting this group of minors, who are close to the age of authority and who are not found to have a real need for protection. The new rules introduced mean that single minor asylum seekers who have reached the age of 16 at the time of decision may be granted a limited residence permit up to the age of 18 if there are no reasons for residence other than that the Norwegian authorities consider that the child is without proper care upon return. There is always a concrete and individual assessment of whether lone minor asylum seekers are at risk of persecution on return to their home country, or whether the conditions for humanitarian residence are met, in line with the legislation of the Foreign Affairs Act and the international rules of which Norway is bound, inter alia. The Children's Convention. I would like to stress that all single minors in need of protection are to be granted a residence permit in Norway. Without it being possible to identify the direct link between the measures implemented and the development of arrival figures, the statistics show that the number of lone minor asylum seekers fell sharply in 2010. The total number in 2011 is about the same level as in 2010. A total of 30 minors between 16 and 18 years of age were granted such limited authorisation in 2011 by the UDI. In 2010, 41 such permits were granted, and 33 minors were granted such permits in 2009. The granting of a limited authorisation instead of a refusal may create expectation of further residence, so that it does not necessarily justify a voluntary return after the expiry of the authorisation. It may therefore be important for children to receive an offer during the temporary stay, which is truly qualified for return to their country of origin after the age of 18. A good offer could also counteract other negative effects of temporary stay. The Christian People's Party has a proposal where one will remove access to limited permits, and I will join in the considerations that the representative of Tetzschner had, linked to it. I might want to rephrase myself a little bit differently, but the real content I think we share our views on. There are two options if we take this option away. One is that everyone should be allowed to stay. It will have a huge pull effect by issuing a blank authorization. We can't accept that – it won't be manageable. The second option is to return children – to return children without knowing that someone can accept them. This issue is full of dilemmas and, in the light of the different considerations that we have discussed today and which the communication highlights, we believe that the limited authorisation system is better than the alternatives. It's a system I, like the Council of State, want to hold on and defend. We are not blind to the fact that it is not unfavorably positive, but, as I said, in the absence of better alternatives, we believe that this is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3079	I am pleased that the government has put this matter on the agenda and that we are now having a wide-ranging debate on the situation of the children who are fleeing and who are staying in Norway. It allows us to fix what is not good enough for these kids. This occupies me greatly. I agree with those who say that everything we are going to do in this matter must be the first goal of being at the best of the children. The worst thing we can do to these children is separate them from their parents and siblings. For those who have lost their parents, a safe community, good friends, and a future that feels safe, means everything in order to move on. These children often see no meaning in life when they are torn from an environment where they have finally found security. I myself live in a municipality with few inhabitants, but where we have a great reception for asylum. Those living on this reception are a natural and important part of the building. In particular, children have slipped well into the local environment. These are children who have often lived their entire lives in an asylum reception. These children have no other home country, and they have no other community — or friends — than what they find in this community environment. We also have to look at the situation of parents. There are good reasons to believe that parents’ ability to handle their children’s care is closely linked to what they have experienced in their home country experiences and on their journey to Norway. These are people who are generally tired, but they often change when they have fallen to rest in an asylum reception and when they feel the security of a community. I've been talking to people who work on asylum receptions, who do an amazing job every day. They say that the parents again feel discouraged and become worn out when they start to fear that the broadcast will stand by the door. Of course, the future of children is what makes parents most concerned. Employees in the reception office at my home office say that the reception has a very good relationship with the school. Almost the same families with children of school age arrive at the reception, the school is able to offer a good educational offer. Young people are also included in the social events taking place in the class in a short time. The same thing is true of kindergarten. It is pointed out that disabled children get a very good development when they start in kindergarten – I am very happy to hear that. I also know people in Oslo who have lived here for years, but who still don't know if they can stay here on a permanent basis. These are people who have slipped into a community, who have a job, who pay their taxes – like all of us. These are people who have children born in Norway, who go to kindergarten and school, and who are Norwegian – as much as the rest of us. I understand that these children are very afraid to have to leave Norway. This is like sending out any other Norwegian citizen from their country of birth, or their country of origin. This is an uncertainty that no child in our country will have to live with for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3094	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3097	Last year, 2,359 asylum seekers under the age of 18 came to Norway. They were almost 30 pst. of the total number of asylum seekers. Over the last few years, many thousands of children have applied for protection in Norway. Whether they flee alone or with caregivers, children are vulnerable. It raises a number of difficult questions. How do we safeguard the interests of children on the run? How do we avoid them being exploited and put at risk? What is child's best? Does it make sense in the short term, even in the longer term? Does what is a good solution for some, injustice and injustice for others? Since no one else has done so, I will try to give a brief summary of the measures contained in the communication. The urgent procedure is important. The government will strengthen the UDI and UNE so that matters can be handled even faster than today. A provision is proposed to ensure that asylum seekers with children, who have not received their complaint from UNE within 15 months, can be granted residence. The government will also strengthen today's war system and establish a new representative system. It will strengthen the legal certainty of single minor asylum seekers. The communication also clarifies how the foreign regulation § 8-5 should be understood. The aim is to ensure that the best practice of the child is in line with that which has been intended by the Storting. Ensuring good pediatric competence at all levels of the management of foreigners is another measure. The government is concerned that all children in reception should have a good and organised activity offer – that is good. In addition, the work on identifying vulnerable children in reception shall be strengthened. It can be about children with disabilities, children who are subjected to violence, children who have experienced war and conflict, or children who have been abused. In December 2010, the government presented a new action plan on trafficking in human beings. Several of the measures targeted directly at children. The new measures are also announced in the return policy, including: the return aid for children is increased by NOK 10 000 per child. Children should also receive assistance in their country of origin, including: to ensure that lone minors who do not have a need for protection are given a fresh start. Finally, I would like to mention faster settlement as an important area. Children are a priority in the housing work. The goal is 90 pst. shall be resident three months after the decision to stay. Anyone who does not see the measures in this Communication strengthen the legal certainty and quality of life of children on the run cannot have read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3126	People on the run are in a vulnerable situation, and the most vulnerable of them are the children. That's what more people have said here today. Saying this doesn't just have to be terms. There are those who believe more than me in the signal effect of treating children badly – that the rumors then spread all over the world that Norway is not a place to go, at least not if you think that this makes them stay in their home country, and that it is the best solution. I am primarily concerned that the children should be properly treated by Norway and when they are in Norway – for the sake of children and for the sake of our own human dignity. If the child or family complies with the protection requirement, they are allowed to stay in Norway. Then we all know that there are many cases where the alien authorities believe that the child or family does not have the right to protection. It shall then be assessed whether or not the child should be subject to strong human considerations. This is a commitment by Norway under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The best interests of children shall be a fundamental consideration in all matters involving children. What is the best of the child? Is it a broadcast? It may be, but it's probably relatively rare. In any case, the government and the committee believe that there has been a practice from the foreign authorities that has considered too little that it is best for the child to stay in the country. The Government and the Committee believe that this practice must be changed and become more consistent with what the legislators provided for at the time of the adoption of the Foreign Affairs Act. And more: The message alerts measures to strengthen the child’s position. The government has announced a strengthening of the work organisation, improved child-care skills at all stages and an evaluation of how the children’s situation is highlighted by UNE. The government has also announced that it will enter the children's living conditions at reception, among others. how health and child protection are taken care of by children. That's good. Children’s professional competence refers to a good knowledge of the development of children, both physically and mentally. A person with children’s professional competence can ensure that the developmental needs of children are met and that children with special needs are detected and function as a child’s spokesperson. Many minor asylum seekers who come to Norway do not have caregivers in their home country and are often traumatised. Waiting for a broadcaster when you are 18, the child takes away the hope of the future that Norwegian children have the right to. In such cases, it will be in line with the best interests of the child to stay in the country. Norway’s population has a high level of care and a high level of experience in other people’s situation. The change in practice that is now being introduced is a change in practice that is supported by people. There is a high level of commitment on the part of many non-governmental organisations and in many community communities to give more emphasis to the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3143	The Communication points out that children are particularly vulnerable to being victims of trafficking in human beings in the context of migration. Children can become dependent on human traffickers or other adults who can provide a basis for exploitation in human trafficking. We also know that some children are being exploited by their carers. The government has a broad perspective in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and it is enshrined in government action plans. Children are dedicated to a separate chapter of the government action plan on trafficking in human beings for 2011–2014 because this group of victims is particularly vulnerable and has a special need for protection. In particular, it focuses on children who are found in a drug and criminal environment, and children who disappear from the care centres or reception centres of child protection. Norway is doing a good job in this area and is at the forefront of a broad international effort. Work on trafficking in human beings has been further strengthened by the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings, which Norway ratified in 2008. It contains a number of provisions relating to children. Victims who are presumed to be children shall be subject to special protective measures until the age of the victim has been brought to justice and the child shall be appointed a representative to take care of his/her interests. Furthermore, the State has obligations to provide for the necessary measures to identify the child and to make every effort to track down the child’s family when it is in the best interests of the child. Victims who are children shall not be returned to a country where a risk and safety assessment indicates that such return would not be in the best interests of the child. Often, police, asylum recipients, health services or outreach establishments first come into contact with children who may be exposed to trafficking in human beings. They are obliged to notify the local child protection services if there is reason to believe that the child is being abused or there are other forms of serious care failure. In Bergen, the police are working well with this field and these matters, and in the summer, six Romanians were sentenced to a total of 14 years and 10 months for gross trafficking in human beings between 13 and 17 years of age. This shows that work is beneficial, but it must have a focus, and it must be targeted against trafficking in human beings. The size of the population has recently decided to introduce a separate legal basis into the Children’s Act to protect minors from trafficking in human beings. The amendment implies that protective measures may be implemented without the consent of the parties. Therefore, in order to ensure the legal certainty of children, clear and strict conditions are laid down for the measures. The government has granted $17 million. to build an organised institutional offer for this vulnerable child group.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3156	The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that immigration policy is fair, legal and humane. Justice guarantees the legitimacy of the policy. Those who do not need protection in Norway should not receive it either, but those who have the right or need to live in Norway have an obligation to do so. Legal certainty shall ensure that all receive the follow-up to them, the information to be provided to them and the rights to be granted to them. Humanity must ensure that the people behind the numbers, the applications and the statistics are seen as what they are, namely people like you and me, with the same inviolable human dignity. For the Christian People's Party, human dignity has just been at the centre of our treatment of this message. We want an immigration policy that takes more account of the self-esteem of individuals, the community of families and, in particular, the rights of children. This message has good descriptions of reality, but it's no use. So the government understands what the challenge is, but they do not promote one action to do something about it. The Christian People's Party and the Government have common objectives in many areas of immigration policy. We want a fair, legal and humane immigration policy. Therefore, it is so frustrating and incomprehensible that the government does not take the necessary steps to draw immigration in the direction they themselves have strangled out. The Christian People's Party is today promoting the proposals required to bring about the changes promised by the government. The Christian People's Party has eight proposals that would provide a better immigration policy in Norway, in line with the objectives of the government. Nevertheless, the parties to the government will vote against these proposals. Nevertheless, the SV, the government's keenst champion of a fairer and more humane immigration policy, will vote against every proposal. SV, who had fought the case of asylum seekers in the past, now closes their eyes and concludes the proposals that could fulfill SV's own policy. The SV and the other government parties today vote for the return centres in Afghanistan and Iraq, despite the UN Children's Committee's packaging, for a limited residence permit, despite the fact that it causes unnecessary suffering to children, against child protection being provided for single minor asylum seekers, despite the fact that this is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration and pointed out by the UN Children's Committee. This is completely incomprehensible and cannot be interpreted in any other way than that the red-green votes against their own policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3169	Refugee children are a vulnerable group. Especially vulnerable are the single minor asylum seekers. It is impossible to get involved and involved in the debate on asylum children, and especially in the debate on the so-called long-term children. It's important that the Stortinget now deals with the special situation of children on the run, both to illustrate whether we act in accordance with international conventions that we are obliged to, and to discuss the social and moral responsibility we have for these children. Few are in a more difficult situation than the 2 000 to 3 000 asylum-seekers who each year say their future in our hands, regardless of whether they come here as a result of their parents’ choices or their own choices. It is clear that staying for many years in Norway without any rest periods can severely affect children and young people. The Committee points out in its opinion that there is a particular situation for long-term children without legal delay in Norway that is difficult. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that the best interests of children should be a fundamental concern in matters relating to children. The question is how this decision is to be implemented in the handling of applications for asylum involving children. I am pleased that the government and the plurality of the committee clarify that the child’s best interests should be given priority when it comes to immigration regulation. I also note that the government acknowledges that this concern has not been fully addressed through current practice in the foreign administration. The majority agree with the central formulation of the government in the message that: «in certain contexts, the consideration of the best interests of the child will be so burdensome that it will not be possible to place decisive emphasis on immigration regulatory considerations». The debate following the presentation of the High Level Communication on Children on Refugees has largely concerned this wording with a good enough basis for ensuring a change of practice in the UN's handling of complaints. UNE's impending director gave himself the grob for this doubt by stating that UNE could only be instructed by law and order. I think that one should be very formalistic and, in addition, very difficult not to understand the clear reluctance of government and the Stortinget to correct treatment practices in cases where the best and immigration-regulating care of children is opposed to each other. However, when someone says that there is doubt that there will be a change in practice with what is set out in the message, and for which the Stortinget is now supporting, I am pleased that the government will initiate an external evaluation of how the children’s situation is highlighted in UNE’s proceedings. There must be no doubt that from the Storing side we will follow closely, to ensure that desired change of practice becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3191	In a couple of posts here, someone has sent me a little visit. Michael Tetzschner challenged the theologian Bekkevold to make some ethical reflections. I probably didn't feel that it was the theology and ethics that met, but that it was more the theologian and the lawyer. Furthermore, I would probably recommend Eirik Sivertsen not just to relate to statistics as numbers. He should try to go behind the statistics, then you discover the people behind the numbers. A nice way to do that is, for example: to avoid watching Margreth Olin's film The others, who are just about the group of people who have been given temporary residence. One of the previous posts was about trafficking in human beings, and I am very pleased that the representative dealt with this with trafficking in human beings. Save the Children have just come up with a disturbing report called Trafficking in Children. In the report, Redd Barna can tell about major deficiencies in the treatment of asylum applications to so-called minor asylum seekers identified as potential victims of trafficking or slavery, which is a more striking concept. Fear Children can further tell that these lone minor asylum seekers must have been returned to other European countries without any re-trafficking risk assessment being carried out, and this is done completely without notifying any guardian or child protection service, possibly being notified too late or even after the broadcast. Such practices are completely contrary to Norway’s obligations under international conventions dealing with assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings. The fear of being returned to re-trafficking means that some minor victims consider it the safest thing to escape from reception and hide from those who are actually helping, and only in the period from 2002 to 2012 have as many as 453 children disappeared from Norwegian reception. These children are again very vulnerable, for example: organised crime and trafficking in human beings. The Christian People's Party has made several proposals for action to combat trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings with children in particular, and we have wanted a separate action plan specifically aimed at children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. The government, commendably, has put forward an action plan against trafficking in human beings, for which they are to have the support, but has not yet addressed the challenges of trafficking in human beings with children in particular. Now, more than ever, there is a need for such a plan, and I hope that the Minister of Justice will accept that challenge from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3208	Such a debate may have more entrances. One input is to interrogate and misinterpret posts, messages and settings, as Michael Tetzschner chooses to do. Yes, I was pleased that in 2007 we made a decision in which we introduced a special emphasis on the child’s relationship with Norway. So I went on to say – but it didn't fit into Tetzschner's post or approach – that the SV likes this message, and that makes this message so important and so good, is that it first records that it has been an unfortunate practice development, and not least that it will change the practice back to what was the starting point in 2007. We're going to have more and better child-care assessments, and we're going to have a clearer emphasis on the children's best. In order to achieve this, a person with better child-care skills needs to be consulted, and not least in a proper way. The practice that we have had and that we are going to have to move forward is to be reported to us, and it has to be evaluated – that is, we have to be politicians closer than we have been so far. The High Commissioner – and what I think is interesting – has said in direct conversation both with us in the Committee and with the Council of State that the High Commissioner will be involved in this work. That is very nice, because it is an offer that the High Commissioner is offering – and is about to give – to other European countries as well. As for all of those out there that come with this, it's clear that there are many of those who are now active, who want more people to stay. We have received clear messages about this, and there is no doubt that SV belongs to those who hope that will happen. But what they're saying, in addition, is that they don't want at least a slightly better quality of the treatment they're being treated to – to put it that way. The fact that we have better administrative practices in place should be in everyone's interest. It expects young people and young people directly exposed to it, and it expects not least all neighbours, friends, relatives and activists involved in this matter. In this way, I do not understand that it is appropriate for representatives to make fools of a message that just has it as one of their main points. Then, as I said, we get a slightly different view of what will be the result of a better management practice, but it's a point in itself to raise the quality and bring in the child's profession, and that's what we should get together about. And as I said, as SVs both want and believe that then some more people will stay, just as a consequence of us putting down quality in our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3219	It has been a long and, I think, a partly good and not least important debate. There are some themes that I think are still hanging a little bit again. I'll try to reach over at least some of them. It was Geir Jørgen Bekkewold who in his post addressed the problems of settlement. Now, the Council of Children was involved in the project of direct residence of lone minor asylum seekers, but it is clear that we have a challenge in that it is now gradually sitting both children and adults – almost 3,500 in the number – waiting to get into a municipality. A three-year cooperation project has been concluded with the KS, but it is quite obvious that one cannot wait three years for such a project to produce results. It should be possible to refer to results relatively quickly. I'm going to a council meeting myself in my own county on Friday. There's a settlement on the agenda, and it's going to be a little exciting to hear that discussion. But we already know that housing is perceived as the biggest obstacle in the municipalities, so it is clear that that topic must actually also be addressed in the housing notification. The Left's Step Skei Grande thought that the government and the majority of the population are very unclear when we try to give our definitions and clarifications of how we think the law should be understood. But I think that Trine Skei Grande goes a little in her own trap, when she says that the Left does not mean that everyone should be. Then my question is, who is the Left then does not mean to be? And I'm counting on the left to get exactly the same challenges of defining tight boundaries around a category that's really faced with discretion, when all things are to be evaluated individually. It doesn't get any easier for the Left to define who shouldn't be, I think. It was also said here that NOAS has shown that in six UNE decisions – after the message came – it is not possible to trace any change. But we have said that we should follow practice carefully, and I expect everyone who works in the UN to have read both the message and the setting and perhaps even follow the debate here today. I have noticed some individual statements from representatives of UNE. They more than suggest that those who have spoken have a slightly special relation to the distribution of power in society. As late as this afternoon on the local radio, there were some very special statements by a member leader in the UN who stood out under a full name: politicians – especially with theological background, but also those representing the majority – were not left with much honor in their ability to understand how legislation was to be interpreted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3230	Several have expressed their views on the notification. I am pleased with the many positive messages that have come about the big message, which has become what it was supposed to be, namely a thorough review of a very demanding field of action. We are also doing a thorough discussion of today's legislation. The best interests of children are and must be a fundamental consideration in all decisions affecting children. There is also the background to the government's concern to clarify how the provisions of the foreign regulation § 8-5 should be understood. It is absolutely essential that we ensure equal treatment and consideration for the best interests of children, in line with what was and is the intention of the legislator. That is why I directly disagree with the representative, Tetzschner, who is trying to discuss the meaning of the message as a source of justice. In the form it constitutes, it will be a proper and important source of justice. He also asked questions about the legal system, and of course we have an important task in ensuring good legal certainty for single minor asylum seekers. This group has extended the right to free legal aid by granting them the right to free legal aid even during the examination of the application at first instance — as opposed to others, who receive that right only on appeal to UNE. Let me mention that we have received a report called Evaluation of the Lawyers' Scheme. It was published on 29 October this year, and there are several recommendations for adjusting the scheme. These are proposals that will be assessed both in the UDI and the Department, with a view to follow-up later. I am, as the representative Bekkeword, also concerned about the situation of minor victims of trafficking in human beings. This is really a very vulnerable group. Here, of course, we are following new provisions, which came into force on 1 August of this year, with regard to the rules of the Child Protection Act. That provision also provides for coercive measures against victims who oppose protection and follow-up. We are dedicated to securing these children as best we can. Asylum recipients shall also report missing children to the nearest police authority within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3241	It is possible that it is I who am thin, but when the representative Ørsal Johansen's explanation of my question was that different representatives in the Progress Party have different views, I fell completely off the hook. Both the papers I referred to in my reply question are interviews with the same representative. And not enough – it's an interview with the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen. In the class struggle on 16 January of this year, the matter is referred to Adrian. I quote: "I've been in touch with Adrian for a few years. My advisor and I have reviewed his case, and we believe he qualifies for stay. If the foreign authorities had used only the discretion they should use within the framework of the legislation that exists, says Morten Ø. Johansen of the Class Struggle." He was presented as the Progress Party's new immigration policy spokesman. I quote. The journalist asks: ‘Xhela was finally refused two years ago. You support a returnee who is illegal in Norway? Yeah, now he's actually illegal here. He should have returned. Some refuse to return because they find it more convenient to be in Norway. But this boy has a need for protection. He is simply terrified, says Johansen." For me, this is not entirely consistent with what the Progress Party has said in this Chamber today. There may be some in this room who believe that the competence of the foreign administration is inadequate. But I doubt that there are many people who believe that big business representatives, individually, have better competence to make decisions in individual matters than the foreign student. Even with good advice from the consultant, I believe that there is no one of us at all to deal with individual matters – fortunately, I would say. Does the Progress Party really believe that UNE does not take advantage of the legislative space and is too strict, or does the Progress Party believe that asylum policy is too liberal? In any case, it may not be possible for asylum seekers to be rejected because they happen to know a representative who is willing to speak their case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3264	I do not know if Aksel Hagen referred to me, but I will at least reject that I have made a fool of the message. I told you it was a good discussion. I just disagree with what is in the message. I don't think this will lead to a change, just as we didn't think it would lead to this practice, when we dealt with the law. Because then we also had suggestions, but not that the best of the children would apply. We proposed that the best child should be given weight. Sense it was voted down in this room – when we dealt with the Foreign Affairs Act. So I don't believe that this is going to lead to change, and the reason why I get a little thought about it is, you think something should change, and you think that the administration that administers a code is doing it wrong, but you don't want to change the law. Why is it so important not to change the law, if you think the administration is doing something wrong? Is it a separate reason in itself, or are you perhaps satisfied with the administration you have? The left does not mean that everyone should be, anyway. But we're against big business representatives dealing with issues – one and one. We believe that we should have a much faster procedure. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are giving much more money to process, because we believe that urgent procedure would have helped to simplify many of these matters. We believe, as the Council of State says, that there has to be a clearer regulation. That's why I think it's huge that the government doesn't take up any of our proposals, where we say you have to clearly define what the terms we use really mean. The left is not for a general amnesty, but we're for sometimes having to set some lines. This is done in most other European countries. Sometimes you put a line and you say that someone's been here long enough. This has been done ashore led by right-wing populists. But you're not going to do that in Norway, here you're going to erase and erase. Swallow if it destroys people, sail if it eats people bit by bit, and sail if we know that kids suffer from it, then it's our principle so important that we'll never put a line, that we'll never say that enough is enough, that we'll never say that these kids in themselves have a power of their own to keep living in Norway. That's what I disagree with. I don't mock the message, I don't fool it, but I fundamentally disagree with the fact that you don't dare take hold, because I think this would have been a chance to be in line with the things we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3279	It is an honest matter to disagree with the fact that there is no need for a change in the law, but I would nevertheless ask the representative Schei Grande not to talk down on what is a central point here, and that also the Council of State Faremo has been involved, namely that what is in this message, is to consider as a post-worker. It shall be emphasised in the management of the UN in their practice. In June next year, we will review how practices have developed, and this is especially in view of the issue of weighting illegal residence in an association assessment. What I am particularly concerned about as Minister for Children is the child-disciplinary competence and ensuring that children's perspectives and opinions are also included. We do a lot of work on that in the field of child protection. It's about getting good quality in the work we do, it's about having respect for the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 12, it's about making sure that we get enough information to make the right decisions. I believe that in recent times we have been given examples of how important it is to ensure that there is also good competence in the situation of children in many of the countries from which lone minors leave. This could be done, for example, by: are about family relationships that are totally unacceptable, and that would make no one here think it is best for the child to be with his or her own family. It could be about sexual assault, about violence, about traumas that we specifically need to have competence in. We also say that Landinfo should acquire information and expertise on how war and conflict particularly affect children. It logically follows that we have worked a great deal to raise our skills also in terms of issues concerning women in particular, because the starting point was that many of the conventions that we have established have not taken into account what can be called women's particular needs. If you do not know how different conditions in the country affect women, how women’s political activity species behave, how women are particularly exposed to violence, sexual abuse, trafficking in human beings, for example. – Nor can you make the right decisions. So this goes hand in hand. It is important that this room is also concerned with gaining good competence in the systems to manage this. It's complicated, and it's not easy to keep track of how people feel in the countries that are affected, but it's a much more important task for us. Especially when it comes to children, we have a commitment, we've incorporated the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we have to make sure that our systems are designed so that we actually take into account the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3293	The representative Aksel Hagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3296	Step Skei Grande has an interesting reflection on the relationship between regulation and practice. So the government, the big fraction and the SV's position here tonight is that we have the 2007 Code and the UN Children's Convention as a starting point. Then we do three things tonight: we deliver a message and a setting that clarifies the content here, then we fill in with competence, and then we introduce even more of a right for kids to be directly heard in that kind of case. All in all, we need to get out with a different practice – that is what we are convinced of – than it is today. What kind of rash it'll give in relation to how many people get to and don't get to be, we're going to follow up. But first of all, it'll give us quality, and we're looking for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3301	I would like to answer the question from Trine Skei Grande about why not change the law, because then I also get the opportunity to end the reasoning that I did not get to finish instead. I will answer the question from Trine Skei Grande by referring to a review in the message on page 38, where it says: ‘The Ministry adopted on 20.06.2011 an amendment to the Foreign Regulation clarifying that children’s considerations should be set out separately in the decisions.’; And it says that the grounding is made clear. In the hearing, we met – as I mentioned – organisations that said that this is not the case, we read hundreds of such decisions and that is not the case. Then I believe that the biggest challenge is that the legislation we have is being practised in a way that we have thought. Then I don't think it's useful just to adopt new regulatory changes, when the challenge is to get the legislation, the law and the regulations we have to work like we've been thinking. Then I return to the principal who had his special views of us politicians, and then I choose to believe that he is an individual. But at the same time, I can't help asking questions about whether a representative of a culture thinks it's difficult when, as politicians, we clarify here in the staging room, in the message and in our remarks that illegal residence is now going to count, there are changes, that we have to defend ourselves – in the public debate – against posts that say yes, but UNE says that it won't happen. Then the world is turned on my head. It's been about culture in other types of establishments lately. Nor should we ignore the fact that this may apply to parts of the foreign administration. It's not my business here today to question an entire administration, but I think the signals we get that things aren't exactly what we want, we have to take it seriously. Then, when we go through practice, we can see that it still hasn't changed. It should actually be possible to change very quickly a practice that is as simple as counting the number of years a child has been in Norway. When we say that the part of the stay that has not been in the past should now be included, it should be possible to change quite quickly. If it doesn't, we might be dealing with deeper cultures, which we also have to look at. We shall have plenty of reason for that. There will be both an external and an internal evaluation of the UN process. I want to end the debate by stressing that what we as a majority say is that we mean, that is what we mean, and that is how it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3319	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3322	I see the post from Lise Christoffersen as interesting, but I also think it was quite eye-catching. If this is the case, if you have an office that does not implement what the Council of State will, I think the Council of State may have to answer whether she shares the comments that the representative of Christoffersen of her party has had today, that we have an entire unit here that does not care about the decision to roll, and that goes across the governance instructions we come with. In that case, the Minister of Justice should really thank and do something, because that is not the way we can do it – if that is what the Minister of Justice felt about Lise Christoffersen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3327	I can assure you that there are no other reasons behind this communication, nor the review of the practice and the desire for clarification, than what has been mentioned and described in detail – where a number of measures are also being taken to build child-reliance skills, as it has been referred to in depth from this pulpit earlier today. We have a good foreign administration, both in the Foreign Affairs Directorate and in the Netherlands, but we have an overall desire to build up even stronger child-reliance skills to ensure that the various and very demanding considerations are thoroughly evaluated and balanced, and that we get as good and correct decisions as possible. Here, there is a fundamental concern for the best interests of children, and it must be balanced towards something as difficult as immigration-regulating considerations. That task does not come from the non-resident authorities, and we owe it to the administration to give as precise instructions as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3334	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3348	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3357	It's late in the evening, so I'm not going to keep any long posts. In the matter we are now discussing, proposals are made for the government to make the necessary proposals to limit the possibility of resumption of foreign affairs, so that a final decision is final and cannot be re-opened, and for the government to submit the necessary proposals to enable the establishment of an administrative court dealing with, inter alia, matters. complaints in foreign matters. The Committee shares the view that the high number of requests for conversion is a serious challenge. The Committee shares the view of the proposers that it is important to have a genuine appeal procedure and to maintain the principle that cases should be dealt with in two instances in order to ensure the legal certainty of the individual, but it is equally important to ensure sound and prudent proceedings. In many cases, the administration has an obligation under international conventions to assess new evidence or information prior to dispatch. Norwegian rules, such as: The provision of the foreign regulation on the special importance of the link between children may give an obligation to assess conversion requests. In its assessment of the case, the Council of State states that it is committed to finding measures that may limit current resource use and prevent requests for conversion from delaying the work on returns. The majority – all except the Advancement Party – are responding to the Government's proposal on how to follow up the decision of the Appeals Board and request that this be done in the current period. I recommend the Committee's recommendation, which is that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3372	I have started many debates on foreign affairs, saying that there is a major difference in refugee and asylum policy between the Progress Party on the one hand and the other political parties on the other, and so on in this case as well. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I fully support what the case rapporteur said. Everyone agrees that the number of requests for conversion is high, and that it is a serious challenge, but only the Progress Party is willing to set aside international conventions and people's legal certainty to reduce the number of requests for conversion. The other parties are looking for solutions within the international legislation that we are obliged to do. The Council of State also writes in its reply that the high number of requests for conversion was part of the basis for the so-called Board of Appeal to be set up in due time to look at the organisation of appeal proceedings and the organisation of the body itself. The Progress Party will have a total ban on the overall demands for conversion. Of course, it's not possible and has to be viewed as a relatively populist play. The party of progress also claims relatively blatantly that the number of requests for conversion is a symptom of outrightness in the foreign administration. I believe that such expressions do not really apply, and there is hardly any evidence for that either. At final rejection, people usually get a place between seven and thirty days to leave. The objective is, of course, to travel as much as possible within that deadline and preferably voluntarily. The government has done a lot to streamline the foreign administration. More resources have been allocated to the proceedings. The EFFEKT programme has received large amounts of funding over several years, so that the process can be carried out digitally. It has once again opened up a more effective collection of information from other public bodies and a greater certainty that the information in these cases is correct and up-to-date when decisions are taken. The Foreign Affairs Unit of the police is strengthened by increased means of transport. But the most important of all is maybe good return agreements, which give people the opportunity to a new start in the country of origin. On the other hand, it is a problem that some countries do not accept their own citizens by repatriation. The government has therefore just stepped up its efforts to conclude return agreements with the countries of origin. From 5 such agreements in 2005 we now have almost 30. Then, of course, it's also a problem if he doesn't cooperate to establish his identity. That's why there's a national ID center built to strengthen the work of finding out who people are or are not. It's an important job, because where should someone send people if their identity is unknown? With regard to the problem with a high number of requests for conversion, there are no quick and simple solutions. Instead, a job, as the government does, needs to be systematic and long-term in order to reduce the length of proceedings both in the first instance and in the second instance, and to ensure rapid returns. The shorter it takes from refusal to return, the less likely it is that new elements come into the matter. The solution is certainly not to weaken people’s legal certainty by breaking Norway’s international obligations. Today, Norway is a serious partner in European cooperation on asylum issues. We will not continue to be that if we implement unilateral measures that violate the international commitments we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3393	The Progress Party is not interested in breaking international commitments and conventions. We want us to be in line with them, but it is possible to do as other countries have done, to use those conventions and those agreements to get faster treatment and less opportunities for conversion requests. Applicants for asylum in Norway are entitled to legal certainty. It was just supposed to be missing. But it has become so that complaints and requests for conversion have almost become the rule instead of the exception. It's easy to complain, and an incredible number do. Then one can ask the question about their complaints because they really think they are unfairly treated, because they do not know Norwegian law and legislation, or because we have lawyers who also need a living. I'm not going to give a clear answer, but I think it might be a combination of these relationships that are the right answer. It is, as has been said before, a challenge for the entire administration that there are so many opportunities to complain and send requests for conversion. This spends an incredible amount of time and resources on, time and money that could have been spent in a much better way, on faster and better processing of ordered applications, and not least on integrating those who have been granted their applications in a good way. In fact, many people stay in the country for a very long time after they have been rejected. Some come from the fact that there are difficult return conditions, that there is little willingness to return and that there are good complaints – or a combination of these. I am pleased that the government and the committee see that there are challenges in the handling of complaints and that we have a relatively long time to deal with them. I'm glad that the committee and the government want to do something about this. I look forward to the government making a communication in which it makes good, concrete proposals to limit the possibility of resumption, and that we will then have a reduced treatment period, so that we can use the resources in a good and sensible way, among other things. for integration. I refer to the proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3410	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3413	There seems to be a broad consensus that there is a problem with requests for conversion, which are not limited in number. A NOU has been developed on a new appeal procedure for foreign affairs, chaired by the so-called Mæland Committee. With the last article from Ørsal Johansen, there is a co-ordinated big deal asking that this matter now be followed up. The vast majority of the committee says that this must be presented during the current period. Instead of taking a line to the Council of State, I already ask now: When is the Council of State going to deliver the follow-up to the decision-making process of the Mæland Committee? We know that there are a lot of suggestions waiting to be dealt with. I have a great understanding that the Ministry of Justice has been very busy with many other matters in the last year. But if the Storting now unanimously asks for this to be dealt with in the current period, can the Council of State guarantee it? Then the Right will be satisfied, because then we will put this important matter on the agenda. In that case, the proposal for a document 8 will be met in a way by being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3422	The parties agree with the proposers that the high number of conversion requests is a serious challenge. While it is important to have a genuine means of handling complaints and to maintain the principle that cases should be dealt with in two instances in order to ensure legal certainty for individuals, it is also important to ensure sound and prudent procedures. On the other hand, when all negative decisions are requested, there is reason to take a critical review. It may seem to be a very little sensible resource use to allow all individual cases to be dealt with an unlimited number of times. Many believe that providing a change request means that they may stay in Norway until the case has been dealt with again. Fortunately, it's not like that. The exit obligation in case of refusal is maintained unless the case contains significant new information. Nor does it prevent a forced return from being carried out. The problem with too many requests for conversion was part of the mandate of the Complaints Board, which was set up in 2009, and the Department is now working on follow-up to the vacancy. In my opinion, it should be considered whether, within the international agreements, it is possible to lay down the conditions that a certain period must elapse between final rejection and the possibility of making a request for conversion, for example. one year. The possibility that there will be new elements in the matter will be greater the longer the period goes on. This could be done, for example, by: have changed conditions in the home Member State. It should also be discussed whether it is possible to set a ceiling on the number. Some have delivered a change request a whole ten times. This is as far as I know the only kind of thing that never sets a final point. At the same time, it is a fact that, in many cases, management has an obligation under international conventions to assess new evidence or other new pre-dispatch information. Norwegian rules, such as: The provision of the foreign regulation on the special importance of the link between children may give an obligation to assess conversion requests. The government has a clear objective of speeding up proceedings and faster return of persons with final rejection. Faster returns will hopefully reduce the number of conversion requests, as the chances of a change in conditions will be very small if the applicant is returned immediately after the rejection. The Central Party is pleased that the Council of State in its letter of reply is concerned with finding measures that may limit resource use and prevent requests for conversion from delaying the work on returns. I welcome the Council of State's proposal on how to follow up the Complaint Board's decision and hope that it will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3437	I agree that it is an important task to reduce resource use when processing conversion requests. Before I go into this, I would nevertheless like to stress that the most important measure to reduce the number of conversion requests, as several have mentioned, is to get quick returns from people who have been finally rejected. The return work is a priority area for the government. I have noticed that the proposers have argued that conversion requests ‘must not be allowed.’ This is in my opinion to go too far. It would be unacceptable to send someone back to persecution or assault. Government policy is to provide protection to those in need of protection. In addition, Norway is obliged under the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights not to return to persecution or abuse if it is entitled to protection under those Conventions. In addition, the Convention on the Rights of the Child requires that we consider the best interests of the child in matters relating to children. If the foreign authorities do not assess any new evidence or other information that comes in before the return takes place, we risk sending someone back to prosecution or assault and thereby also breaking the Convention obligations. The first years after the UN was established, there was a rule that the principal could decide to reject information, documents or other evidence which could have been provided or submitted during the previous proceedings. In 2005, this provision was repealed on a proposal from the Bondevik II Government. This had the background to UNE’s finding it more appropriate to deal with groundless conversion requests with a brief reply that there was no basis for conversion. This provision had thus proved to be of no practical importance. Instead, on a proposal from the Bondevik II Government, a provision was introduced that conversion requests should only be accepted if the foreigner needed protection, or if there were ‘particularly strong human considerations’. This provision did not lead to any reduction in the number of conversion requests, nor did it have any particular effect on the number of conversions. The condition that there was a need for ‘particularly strong human considerations’ for conversion was lifted in 2007. The Board of Appeal has now proposed that UNE should not be able to make its own decisions, but that UDI should decide whether the case should be reopened. A condition for reopening shall be that new information or evidence of facts which have not previously been assessed has been submitted and that there must be more than 50 pst. likely that the new moments will lead to conversion. If the case is first reopened, but the UDI refuses to reopen it, the case should be brought before UNE again under the terms of the proposal. During the consultation round, UNE and UDI have indicated that the selection proposals could lead to an increase rather than a reduction in resource use. Furthermore, the UDI is critical of the sample’s assumption that the scheme will lead to fewer conversion requests and UNE believes that the scheme could lead to a higher number of legal proceedings. UNE also has a number of other objections to the proposal. When assessing the selection proposals in this way, both the relevant professional bodies also require a critical assessment by the department. It is also necessary to consider alternative schemes. One of the questions currently being examined by the Ministry is whether a separate authorisation can be given to reject requests for conversion where UNE considers that there is no significant new information. The proposers wish to investigate the establishment of an administrative court. At this point, I would like to refer to the experience gained from Sweden, where the responsibility for handling complaints has been transferred to the courts. In Sweden too, the challenges of conversion requests are not being met. Last year, the Finnish Immigration Service handled 11,653 enquiries on issues that were already settled. The Migration Agency has estimated that in 2011 they spent 45 years in the handling of such transformations. As I informed you instead, my department is now working on the follow-up to the Complaints Committee's investigation. I can inform both the representative of Greece and others that during the first half of 2013 I will therefore return to Stortinget, among others. concerning the processing of conversion requests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3467	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3470	This is a very short article, and it's about mathematics. Plus and minus can be incredibly difficult, and it's become a calculation error. There have been wrong figures in our comments on the matter, as we have taken the number of people who have been given a stay and added to the number of people who have been given a stay due to the need for protection – and have not added together persons who have been given refugee status and those who have had a need for protection. So the number in the first section of our comment on 6,140 is going to be 3,385. I think it's very easy to clarify it, because there's a big difference between those numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3476	So let's take note of that. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3493	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3499	It looks like we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3673	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-6, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 7, from Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the lifting of the ban on low-income housing laws.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3700	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-4, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the necessary proposals for amendments to the Planning and Building Act so that the State and Regional Body concerned can raise objections to proposals for the area and regulatory plan of the Municipal Plan only on issues of national or substantial regional importance, and not on issues that are essential for the particular subject matter of the body concerned for other reasons.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asked to carry out a full review of all objections raised by State bodies competent to determine whether those bodies have defined which issues of national or substantial regional importance have raised objections to municipal planning and land matters.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to propose measures to limit the right of objection to state authorities which act as a barrier to housing and local freedom of action.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3727	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5 and 6, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case concerning the establishment of a Local Government Contracting Agency for Infrastructure Development Cooperation according to the National Transport Plan.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose the establishment of a system in which the builders of work relate exclusively to the municipality.» The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3751	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose to the municipalities the possibility to grant temporary authorisation to the applicant responsible and to maintain one week’s deadline for the municipality to provide a final certificate.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3784	During the debate, Mr Hanekamhaug presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals from the autumn of 2014 to introduce one hour of physical activity each day for primary school students, with a corresponding increase in the frame-hour.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3807	In Case No: 6, 7 and 8 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3815	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2-7, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 8-13, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 7 have been included in the setting on page 49, while proposals No. 8 to 13 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 9-12, from the left. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to amend the foreign regulations in order to make it clear that the more important the decision is for the child, the more important it is to give priority to immigration regulatory considerations.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the foreign policy in such a way that it is clear that, in the light of immigration-regulating considerations, a refusal must be sound from a child law perspective.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to amend the foreign regulation in such a way that it becomes clear that residence in the kingdom is an important consideration in determining whether there are strong human interests or special ties to the kingdom.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to specify what falls under the concept of ‘immigration regulatory considerations’.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3862	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to increase the number of quota refugees from 1200 to 2000.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3877	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8 and 13, on behalf of the Left: Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the foreign regulations in order to clarify that children are considered to have a particular connection with the kingdom if they have been in Norway for more than three years. The same applies to parents without a permit to work and stay with daily care for such children.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the regulations on fixed-term schemes in the municipalities so that all children residing in a Norwegian municipality are entitled to be on the list of permanent residents.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3901	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3-7, on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a regulation clarifying how the best assessment of the child is to be carried out and making it clear that the best interests of the child need to be given greater emphasis in terms of immigration regulation, in accordance with Norway’s human rights obligations and otherwise in line with the intentions of the Foreign Affairs Act.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to stress to the foreign authorities that the child’s best judgment is set out in the individual decision and that the reasons for the different considerations are clarified in the decisions.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an explanation of the content of the child’s best judgement based on international and national legal sources.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government asks the Government to amend the foreign regulations § 8-8 so that there will no longer be any possibility of granting limited authorisations to lone minor asylum seekers.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to complete the planned work of setting up care centres for lone minors in Afghanistan.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3941	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for necessary legislative changes in order to establish a government instruction authority towards UNE on issues of principle, similar to the UDI regime.’ The left has notified that they support the proposal of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e3976	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Morten Ørsal Johansen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to limit the possibility of resuming foreign affairs so that a final decision is final and cannot be resumed.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit the necessary proposals to enable the establishment of an administrative court dealing with, inter alia, complaints in foreign matters.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e4017	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-20.ana.ud2487e4223	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
