ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e51	The representative of Håkon Haugli, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Willy Pedersen, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Giltun, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e64	On behalf of the representatives of Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Bente Thorsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a contingency plan for adapted education and work for people with developmental disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e69	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e72	On behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Line Henriette Hämdal, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a new housing and urban development policy for sustainability and quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e91	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e100	On behalf of the Business Committee, I present the case on the law on the Patent Board and the complaint subject to industrial courts. The background to the proposal is a general need for revision and modernisation of the existing law, which is understandable when this law dates from 2 July 1910. In addition, there are some changes in the organisation of the Patent Board. The proposal presented today implies that the Director of the Patent Board, who is currently appointed as an official without a time limit, is hereby appointed on an annual basis for up to six years, with the possibility of renewal once. It is the whole committee, all parties except the Christian People's Party, agree on. A separate complaint subject to industrial rights is established to deal with complaints about the decisions taken by the Patent Board. This title shall replace the current Second Chamber of the Board of Patents and it shall have its own management and shall now become an independent body. Here I would like to remind you that the creation of an independent complaint subject that can replace the second department of the Patent Board will lead to additional costs of approximately 3 million. kr every year. Overall, the complaint will have an annual cost of 5 million. kr, and the annual operating expenditure of the Patent Board will be reduced by approximately 2 million. NOK when the second department is closed. In order to ensure the best possible information on a case, specific rules on oral negotiations and meetings were also proposed. Now, at all stages of the process of dealing with their own actions, it is necessary to consider whether it is appropriate to hold oral negotiations or meetings. If a party for which it has legal cause requires a meeting, the Board of Patents or the Board of Appeal shall comply with this requirement as far as possible. In order to ensure that the system of administrative review of registered industrial rights of the Patent Board is a good alternative to bringing legal proceedings before the courts, rules are proposed to allow for the award of costs in such cases. Many have responded to the draft consultation, and the Ministry has received broad support from amendments. Then it is that the Progress Party and the Right have their own comments on the deadline and the imposition of costs, and I expect that they themselves will elaborate it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e117	It is probably high time to renew many of the laws we have here in Norway. The law on the Patent Board and the subject of the complaint is one of them. The law is from July 2, 1910, and it goes without saying that a lot has changed on these nearly 102 years. There is an overall committee which makes a recommendation and the members of the committee have several common comments. However, the Progress Party will note the danger we see when it now opens up to the Complainant's ability to impose costs. The party is concerned that this could mean that more applicants would rather go through the European Patent Office (EPO) than apply nationally in Norway. This could have negative consequences for the Patent Board and the future use of its services. In addition, the Progress Party would like to see a uniform deadline for the submission of decisions by the Board of Appeal to the courts in the long term, in line with other complaints related to other laws, namely two months. Otherwise, the Progress Party is pleased to have the Complaint Topic separated as an independent governing body, that the Patent Board is appointed in annual cases, and that the Chairman and Vice-Chair of the Complaint Subject should comply with the requirements of the Court of Justice Act § 54, first paragraph. It is also very good that competence is required both for the members of the Patent Board and for the members of the Complaint Board.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e130	The current governing law is over 100 years old. The government sees a clear need for ongoing modernisation, clearing and auditing. That is why we have promoted the draft new law on the Patent Board to replace the current law. The Patent Board is a government directorate dealing with and deciding on applications for industrial rights, i.e. patent, trademark and design. They also record these rights. Furthermore, the ETA is a national competence centre in this area. We believe that the last point should also appear in the law. The new law shall regulate the organisation and processing of the Patent Board. The Government proposes that the Director of the Patent Board be hereby appointed as an official on an annual basis for up to six years, with the possibility of renewing the annual target period once. Under the applicable law, the Director shall be appointed as an official for an indefinite period. The Patent Board is currently organised in two departments: the first department dealing with cases in the first instance, and the second department which is the Board of Appeal. The Patent Board is already independent in dealing with individual industrial rights issues and cannot therefore be instructed by either government or department in individual cases – but it should also be explicitly stated in the law. An organisation whereby both the first instance and the review body are in the same establishment no longer appears in line with modern legal principles. It is important for users that the Board of Appeal is not only effectively independent from the first instance but also visible as independent. For this reason, the Government proposes to establish a professionally independent administrative body with legal personality as the Board of Appeal. It shall be called the Complaints Board for Industrial Courts. It is going to need approx. three full-time employees, entailing an additional cost of approx. Three million. kr per year for operation compared to the current situation. The operating costs shall be borne by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in the State budget, in the form of a separate budget chapter for the following year. The new complaint subject shall provide for a user-friendly, high-quality appeal procedure and thus build trust among users. The Committee shall examine complaints against decisions of the Board of Patents. It shall be independent of both the Patent Board and the Government in the handling of its cases. No hearing body has opposed the central points of the draft. We are now aiming to prepare the creation of the title and regulations for the law, so that everything is clear that the name may be in operation as of 1 January 2013 – and it is a strength that there is an overall uproar about our arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e151	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e154	I have a short question. This is the case with time-limits for the submission of decisions by the Board of Appeal to the courts. The Progress Party wants that to be a uniform and equal deadline of two months, but as I understand it, it is set up for one month. Can the Council of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e159	I think we get to experience as we get this system in place. Complaint handling is to be perceived as safe, quick and user-friendly, and it is important that we now have a system of independence between the first and second instances. If the President allows it, I will also add something to Bredvold's main posts, namely this with costs. It is important that there should not be an opportunity to impose costs on all cases dealt with by the Board of Appeal, but only in those cases where there is an administrative review of whether or not a decision granting a right is valid. So we're going to have to figure this out along the way. Now we have the framework in place, and then we can provide improvements to procedural procedures etc. as we gain more experience, this should be optimised for users.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e166	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e171	In the Workers' Party we say that everyone is going. Of course, this should also be the Christian People's Party, because they support the appointment of the Director of the Patent Board on a yearly basis – it is corrected. It is also tempting to comment on the comments of the Progress Party and the Right on the desire for a uniform period of two months in order to bring proceedings before the courts, because the rules are the same today. It is a two-month period, except in the case of administrative patent limitations, where the period is one month. There's a deliberate difference in the rules in such cases, because you only want one party, and that's the patentee himself. In such cases, it is important that matters are finally decided quickly. For this reason, it is not desirable, on the part of the government parties, to extend the time limit for actions to two months under administrative patent limitation, as has been said. With regard to the comments by the Right and the Advance Party on the costs of the case, where they are concerned that this will engender the proceedings and lead to more people going through the EPO, which was discussed here now, it is that that concern can almost be superfluous, because the proposals in the Proposition are intended to introduce such access only in matters of administrative review. There will still not be an opportunity to impose costs on other cases. So the Progress Party and the Right seem to have misunderstood this, by believing that there should be an opportunity to impose costs on all kinds of complaints. The EPO has no system of administrative review, as we have in the Norwegian law. So the introduction of rules on costs of action in such cases would therefore not be in competition with, or be an argument for, choosing the EPO, as the EPO and the review mechanism are not in the EPO system. In addition, contrary to the case-law of the Board of Patents, costs of opposition may be imposed on the EPO both at the Court of First Instance and by appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e182	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e196	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e205	It is a joint committee that supports the setting up of a new law on export credit Norway AS, the Export Credit Act. The Committee is also composed of all relevant observations on the matter. A good system for financial services to Norwegian exports of capital goods and services is very important and crucial in the international competition of our export companies on a daily basis. It is about competitiveness and the ability to win margins in a very tough international market, characterised by strong competition. The scheme for financial services to Norwegian exports of capital goods and services is one of several elements of competitiveness. The ASA export finance has previously provided this service to export companies, but stricter requirements for this type of financial institution under the Capital adequacy Directive did not allow the ASA export finance to meet the changed requirements that emerged. Therefore, the size decided on 14 December last year that the management of publicly supported export credits should be continued under State control only through a transitional arrangement and then through a new State Export Finance Unit to be established by 1 July 2012, which is now being realised through this case. I am pleased that a good solution has been found for the employees of Export Finance who worked with this portfolio in the new company. Competence and continuity are important for companies, so it was important to transfer the competence to the new company. Together with the GIEC State Guarantee Scheme, we now ensure, through what is proposed, the continuation of a competitive export finance offer for Norwegian business. The scheme of subsidised CIRR loans is continued. In addition, the entity will continue the offer of CIRR-qualified loans at market rates. Thus, a new export financing scheme is not established, but a new State entity to continue the existing scheme. The law now being proposed will, in our opinion, be a good framework for the purpose for which the company is assigned. The lending scheme shall be effected by the conclusion, as a general rule, of export credit agreements with Norway as a company on behalf of the country under the rules applicable to publicly supported export credits or by the granting of loans on market terms as an alternative to these. The company will thus be able to pay out loans to customers directly from the State Treasury and all eligible borrowers will be offered a loan offer. Such a scheme will be robust, and the scheme entrusted to the company will at all times be able to handle and recover the volume of loans that the Norwegian export industry will demand in the future. It will be a strength and a great advantage. At the Committee’s hearing, a central issue related to the older loans granted by Export Finance was raised. The issue referred to was market loans, which would initially be CIRR-qualified, but where the borrower had chosen loans at market interest rates and therefore did not send a loan request until the commercial contract was signed. This total refers to 13 loans in the Loan portfolio of the Export Finance ASA with a total volume of more than 2,5 billion. kr. When the margin-binding period for these loans expires from December 2012 to November 2014, export finance will not be able to serve them further. It was therefore necessary to clarify whether the new export credit scheme could take over these loans. In this respect, the Committee sent letters to the Council of State and the Council of State interprets previous powers to address the issue raised in the hearing. Such an interpretation is also consistent with the views of the Committee and was an incredibly important clarification by the Council of State. I would like to stress the importance of the company acting in such a way that it appears to be an attractive partner for the Norwegian export industry, and that its services appear to be competitive, flexible and good. The company itself operates through annual government budget appropriations. To this end, it is important to point out that the framework for the company actually becomes such that it does not impair the company’s ability to be a competitive, flexible and attractive partner for the Norwegian export industry. In total, we will now have a law and framework for a company that provides a good basis for a robust, reliable and cost-effective system for this type of financial services to our export sector. I also believe that we will now in a very good way ensure the Norwegian export industry good, predictable and competitive conditions in the future, not least in view of what the rest of Europe and perhaps the world look like in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e235	Prop. 102 L for 2011–2012 concerns Export Credit Norway AS, i.e. the export credit law and its recommendations are promoted by an overall committee. However, on the civil side, there are particular comments to clarify their views on the matter in addition to those of an overall committee. The Progress Party will note that there was a lack of initiative and perhaps also a lack of willingness by the government to try out the possibility of a permanent exemption from the Capital adequacy Directive, which subsequently brought the Export Finances ASA into an unsustainable position during 2011. As a result, in the autumn of 2011, the export finance ASA was downgraded by international rating agencies, lost its competitive advantage and subsequently came into a situation where they could no longer provide competitive export finance offers to Norwegian exporting companies. The responsibility for the fact that parts of the Norwegian export industry hovered for a long time in uncertainty about what they could offer their customers at the time of the conclusion of the contract, thus losing competitiveness and potential contracts, rests on the government. The Progress Party therefore considers that there is also reason in this position to stress and refer to the justified criticism as an overall opposition promoted at the Innst. 138 S for 2011-2012. The forwarding party indicates that the ASA's export finance offered both market loans and CIRR loans, and that many customers chose market loans in a falling market to become more competitive at lower interest rates. It was also established practice that Export finance ASA could renegotiate these and offer new interest rates. There is a significant portfolio of such loans by export companies that can no longer be renegotiated at Export Finances ASA, nor will the new state company, after the proposition, take over the loans because they are no longer considered CIRR loans, because customers initially chose it away. Many companies had to refinance in a very expensive loan market, if it was possible at all, which must obviously be an unintended effect of the change from Export Finance ASA to Export Credit Norway AS. The Progress Party would stress that these borrowers themselves have opted for market loans, but in confidence of a system which, since 1978, had given freedom of choice to the most favourable solution. Therefore, it is considered appropriate that Export Credit Norway AS refinances loans that have now fallen between two chairs in the system, in particular taking into account that the loans are no different from the CIRR qualifying ones and thus guaranteed by other banks and GIEK. It will in turn mean an unnecessary red tape of the processes related to export financing and will result in the new scheme being less flexible in terms of export financing and market conditions than it was through Export Finance ASA. Export Credit Norway AS is a State-owned company subject to EU/EEA State aid law in respect of interest rate pricing on the CIRR-qualified market loans. However, the dialogue between the government and ESA around a price system that can ensure approval in ESA, while providing competitive conditions for borrowers, has not been concluded. Prop. 34 S for 2011-2012 just underlined those assumptions. The Progress Party is concerned that the ESA approval for a system to be operational for the Norwegian export industry from 1 July 2012 has still not been achieved. All loans shall be guaranteed, either by State export guarantee institutions or financial institutions, in accordance with the rules to be laid down. We assume that both foreign and Norwegian banks will initially be involved as authorised guarantors, and that at least all Norwegian banks will be accepted as guarantors, assigned to the size of each bank. There may be a good deal of additional costs involved in the acquisition of loans originally granted by Export Finance ASA by Export Credit Norway AS and the loan agreements, etc. will therefore need to be reworked. The Progress Party considers that, in these cases, it is appropriate to consider derogating from the ordinary rules requiring the borrower to pay such additional costs, since in these cases the borrower is involuntarily charged with a change of creditor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e252	This is a matter of Norwegian competitiveness and the large Norwegian export companies. The system that existed through the Export Finances ASA has always been a very important system, and that's exactly why this case has had large dimensions, ever since we had the situation that the Export Finances ASA had problems with the Capital Coverage Directive. I get into that story a little bit toward the end, but it's not the most important thing today. We've had those discussions about who did what in the past. What is now important is that there is a large consensus on the scheme now being introduced through the new Export Credit Norway AS. There are no political disagreements about this system. It is so important for the Norwegian export industry and therefore the Committee has gathered in an exemplary manner. On this occasion, I must commend the President and the Chairman of the Committee, who took the ball very quickly in the Committee, when it became clear that it was part of the older, original CIRR-qualified loans that were market loans, which would be renewed by the Export Finances ASA, which would not be under the new scheme. It was taken up quickly, and there was a positive response from the department, which has well defined it, and which means that you no longer fall between two chairs with those contracts. It was important, because it was basically the only objection that existed to the new arrangement that has come. There's still a little bit of detail in this connection that I want to mention, and that's that in the future it's going to be necessary to apply for this kind of loan in order to achieve the same, even if you haven't thought about going over this type of loan. It's an extra red tape that might make the scheme a little less flexible, but it's not a very heavy objection. The most important thing is to ensure that our heaviest and most important export companies are well funded. Now that I have commended the chairman of the committee, I would also like to say that when he starts to say that he agrees with all the relevant comments, it is correct, but they are not irrelevant to the comments made by the opposition, which refer to the history. They are relevant for one thing, namely the relationship with Norwegian industry and the Norwegian export industry. The speakers of the Progress Party have now given a good deal of expression to the comments we have put together, and therefore there is no reason to go into it very heavily. But there was a period of considerable uncertainty for the Norwegian export industry about what would be the solution. It is rare for me, as a big-time representative, to experience such strength in the contacts with the committee as it was at the time. But it's quite natural, because it was a complex matter. But those who sat out on the grassroots and experienced how quite intricate economic regulations affect the daily operation and what you're going to do to your customers were worried. Now this is behind us, and I'm very happy about that, but that's exactly why we've been careful to write in our historical concerns. How this was handled in its time belongs well to history. There is no doubt that you could be faster on the ball earlier. Several have said – among others: a few legally independent expert opinions – that an exemption could be applied for at an earlier date. We don't know anything about how it would go, and that's why, as I said, it's part of the story, but it's a relevant part of what we've been through and up, but it's good that we're gathered about what the future's going to look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e265	The issue we are about to deal with today is very important for the Norwegian export industry. A competitive offer of export finance is entirely decisive for many enterprises, not least in the maritime sector. Therefore, it is quite natural that many of us have had many questions, and that there has been a strong pressure in this matter during the period we have had her for treatment. The background to this matter is, in fact, the financial crisis in Europe. The crisis led to the adoption by the EU of new rules on stricter capital requirements for financial institutions. This, in turn, led to the conversion of the established export finance system here. It is important for business to have a robust and competitive export finance system. Therefore, the government chose to establish a government scheme with government-funded loans. The government has set up an interim board to establish a company that can provide loans. The Interim Board is in favour of establishing an independent company and defining the framework for the company in law. The government shares this view and proposes to establish a limited liability company. Subsidised CIRR loans are continued in the new scheme. The same is true of CIRR-qualified loans at market interest rates. In the process of establishing the new scheme and the new company, there has been extensive dialogue with the industry and, as many people have been here today, it now appears that the industry has been put in place, in cooperation with government and enlargement, a system with which it is pleased. SV is aware that we are now establishing a well-functioning system that can provide competitive financing for the Norwegian export industry. It is important that the new company can provide good service to the business community. SV is therefore pleased that the government is committed to continuing the skills acquired in the Export Finances ASA. SV is also pleased that good transitional arrangements will be put in place from the old to the new scheme. We are particularly pleased that the Department has confirmed that some of the loans that we have mentioned earlier today, which could have our CIRR-qualified, can be transferred to the new scheme. The necessary conversion of the export credit scheme has created a high level of involvement in parts of the economy. We are therefore very pleased that we have now established a robust and competitive system with which the industry is satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e284	State-supported export credits play a very central role in the financing of Norwegian exports of capital goods, especially in times of unrest in financial markets and in obtaining alternative sources of export finance. In such a situation, it is important that the country provides a stable framework for Norwegian exporters. For large parts of Norwegian industry, the export finance system is important, and it is therefore important for us in the Central Party that we have good arrangements in place in this area. On the part of the Centre Party, we are committed to ensuring the continuation of a competitive export finance offer to the Norwegian export industry, and we therefore support the government's proposal to establish a new government export finance unit. This unit shall, on behalf of the State, manage the State Export Finance Facility by providing loans for export finance in the form of State-subsidised CIRR loans and CIRR-qualified market loans on commercial terms. The Interim Steering Board, appointed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, has made a recommendation on a device and organisational form for this new unit. The Interim Board recommends that the new entity be established as an independent company and that the framework conditions for the company be governed by separate law. In view of this, the Government proposes the establishment of a new State limited liability company named Export Credit Norway AS, where the company's responsibility is to manage a government financial services scheme for Norwegian exports of capital goods and services. On the part of the Centre Party, I would like to stress the importance of a state export financing scheme that is robust, reliable and cost-effective and ensures good, predictable and competitive conditions for the Norwegian export industry. The centre party welcomes the fact that the new company will pay out loans to customers directly from the state treasury and that all eligible borrowers will be offered loans. This underpins a robust system, which will be able to handle and recover in a good way the volume of loans that the Norwegian export industry will demand in the future. The Central Party considers that the proposed permanent organisation scheme for the export financing scheme is well-followed by the leadership of the Stortinget treatment of Prop. 42 S for 2011-2012 and through Innst. 138 S for 2011-2012. In the letters of the Council of State dated 24 May of this year, it appears among other things. the scheme also applies to the 13 loans Export finance ASA discloses that they have in their lending portfolio, which was initially CIRR-qualified, if the application had been sent before the conclusion of the contract. In order to ensure a seamless transfer of the management of the export finance scheme, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade considers that the mandate also covers these. For us in the Center Party, it is important that no company falls between two, or more, chairs and gets injured in this matter. The letters of the Council of State are thus reassuring, and the Central Party takes a positive view of the possibilities that the proposed scheme will provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e305	It's against a gloomy backstop we're dealing with today's proposition on the export credit law. Around the world, there is a growing concern about the economic prospects. For example, the tension around the elections in Greece can be mentioned in view of the euro-cooperation and the banking crisis under development in Spain. It is also worth noting that several European NATO countries have reduced their quota to the ongoing exercise of NATO Air Force Forces in Central and North Norway. The reason is simply that these countries cannot afford to bear the costs of sending full quotas to the exercise. In this reality, it is important to consider that Norway is not isolated from the rest of Europe and the world. The global economic crisis can also hit us with full weight before we know it. Nevertheless, we are in a situation where business and governments in other countries can only dream about. Norwegian government finances are in excellent condition, and an oil smeared economy provides the state with a great deal of room for action, including in providing financial guarantees for Norwegian exports. The background to the proposition we are dealing with today is also the unexplained situation that arose around the ASA export finance in the autumn of 2011, after the financial crisis. When the EU introduced its capital adequacy Directive on 1 January 2011, the possibility for credit institutions to have five times as large exposures to other credit institutions as compared to the limit for exposures to other single counterparties disappeared. The Capital adequacy Directive amended it to a one-to-one ratio. Export finance ASA was downgraded by international rating agencies in the autumn of 2011. One decisive reason was that the government did not take the necessary steps to obtain permanent derogations from the provisions of the Directive. As a consequence, the export finance ASA had problems with the capitalisation and subsequently came into a situation where they could no longer offer competitive export financing to Norwegian export companies. When the government came to the track in the autumn of 2011, however, it was taken hold that gave a good and safe way out of the wreckage. In December last year the Government proposed that the management of publicly supported export credits be continued under government control, first through a transitional regime and then through a new government export finance unit. It is now proposed to establish a State limited liability company, Export Credit Norway AS, which is to manage the State export financing on behalf of the State. The Christian People's Party believes that this is a good solution, and we join the model proposed by the government in the proposition. Christian People's Party also sees it as positive that Export Credit Norway will pay out loans to customers directly from the Treasury, and that all eligible borrowers will be offered loans. It is also very positive that the country takes all the risks associated with the lending activity, as its equity should not be reflected in the lending activity. This will be a good and robust scheme for the Norwegian export industry. Finally, I would like to refer to the contact to the department about the group of customers at Export Finance ASA who seemed to fall between two chairs when converting to a new model for export financing. This was the case with companies that had chosen market loans as financing form and which seemed to lose the opportunity to refinance these loans under the State export finance schemes when Export Credit Norway AS assumes responsibility. The alternative would be refinancing in a very expensive loan market. We are pleased that the Council of State has confirmed in its reply of 24 May that a seamless transfer of this type of existing loan will be ensured. In such cases, it should be considered to derogate from normal rules requiring the borrower to pay such charges, in which case the borrower is involuntarily charged a change of creditor. With these comments, the Christian People's Party joins in the content of the proposition and will vote in favour of the proposal for the law on Export Credit Norway AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e324	State-supported export credits play a very central role in the financing of Norwegian exports of capital goods, especially in times of unrest in financial markets and in obtaining alternative sources of export finance. In such a situation, it is important that the country provides a stable framework for Norwegian exporters. Last year, we saw that the Norwegian State Export Finance Scheme was challenged as a result of the strengthening of the international regulatory framework for the soundness of financial institutions after the financial crisis. The ASA, previously managed by the State Export Finance Scheme, could no longer offer the same amount of loans without significant capitalisation. In order to ensure the continuation of the scheme, we have therefore made proposals to establish a State limited liability company, Export Credit Norway AS, which is to manage the scheme. The company's activities will be governed by its own law, the Export Credit Act, which is currently under consideration. With the establishment of Export Credit Norway, Norwegian export companies will have a robust partner, which will ensure good, predictable and competitive conditions for business. The company will provide loans under the OECD Code on publicly supported export credits – CIRR loans. As an alternative to this, the company will also be able to offer loans at market interest rates – CIRR-qualified market loans. The company is responsible for the entire management of the lending activity, including promotion, sale, processing of applications, payments and follow-up. The company will receive an annual grant from the State budget. The grant shall be sufficient to enable the company to operate its customers quickly and professionally. All eligible borrowers will be offered loans and there will be no ceiling on the amount of individual exposures. The loans are financed by the State and shall be on the balance sheet of the State. Thus, the company is not dependent on raising capital in the market, and customers will be secured loans, even in situations where capital markets do not work. The fact that the loans are on the national balance sheet also means that the company’s equity does not need to reflect the lending activity. As loans are on the balance sheet of the country, the government will be responsible for the lending activity. However, all loans shall be 100 pst. guaranteed by either State and/or commercial guarantee institutions or financial institutions. In order to ensure the continuity and competence of the company, the staff of the Export Finances (ASA) staff working with CIRR-qualified loans and naturally related activities have been offered employment in Export Credit Norway. All those who received the offer of employment have accepted. In order to ensure that no unlawful State aid is granted, it is important that CIRR-qualified market loans are properly priced. We are in dialogue with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, on the setting of market interest rates, which will also provide industry with competitive financing. The Export Credit Act provides Export Credit Norway with a good foundation for managing the export finance scheme. In addition to determining the purpose and scope of the activities of Export Credit Norway, the Export Credit Act provides that the Administrative Act, the Civil Service Act, the Civil Service Code, the Archiving Act and the Financial Activities Act shall not apply to the company. Without prejudice to the approval of the Export Credit Act by Stortinget, we will establish Export Credit Norway AS, so that the company can assist Norwegian companies from 1 July 2012. With today's debate, that connection should be in place. So we can get this going, so we can ensure this seamless transition from old to new management of these loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e355	In a sentence in its statement, the Council of State is concerned with the relationship with ESA — that is, a state company. We need an authorisation in the case of State aid law, and we're going to have the system in place by 1 July. It is more than the opposition who, in a note, expresses concern at the moment, who is wondering whether this is coming to an end. So I very much want the Council of State to say something to the Stortinget about whether you think you are in place with these conversations – the negotiations/approval – by 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e363	It is important that it is the company’s offer of CIRR-qualified market loans to be notified to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. We are in dialogue on that notification. A pre-notification was sent on 6 March 2012. We received a written reply on 9 May 2012. Based on that feedback, we are in the process of developing, in cooperation with the Interim Council, a pricing strategy that will provide the basis for a final notification to ESA. So I'm looking forward to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e368	We in the opposition have a slight remark about the additional costs of loans originally granted by the Export Finance ASA, which is then taken over by Export Credit Norway AS. Can the Council of State tell us a little bit about those costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e373	Export credit Norway must be operated on commercial terms and it is important that the company has firm business principles. At the same time, the basic costs of drawing up new contracts are already covered by the state through the appropriations we give to the company, so I do not imagine that there will be insurmountable costs for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e378	I just don't know if I fully understood the answer I received regarding the ESA approval of the interest rate pricing on the CIRR-qualified market loans. I understand that a letter came on May 9th. I understand that the interim board and the department are talking about this, have a contact. So I'm a little bit unsure: are we in the goal of clarification on July 1st? If not – what problems – if any – do we imagine if such a situation should occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e385	We can start using ESA's reference rate table as a market rate lending facility floor at any time, so it's there as an established principle. What's the challenge is that if we're going to make a pricing strategy, it has to be approved. Now, I guess the difference in interest rates for the two alternatives per day may not be particularly important. It's when interest rate developments go, that this can be a problem. That's why we want to look at a more advanced pricing strategy. However, if it were to go beyond 1 July in order to approve the improved pricing strategy, it would not go beyond the offers to the companies in force from 1 July. We'll be fully operational based on ESA's reference rate table.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e392	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e397	First of all, thank you very much to the representative. The reason I took the word is just the little shadow of different opinions that lie in the back of, or in the foreword to, the matter. What's a little amazing is that I think there's a lot of consensus in this room about the rationale for the capital adequacy directive, and that one through it reduces vulnerability and ensures greater predictability and stability in the financial market and towards the responsibility of financial institutions for having sufficient capital behind loans, etc. Then I'm a little surprised that in this case, too, they choose, now again, to produce some old comments, from December 2011 – where they base their criticism on the fact that it would be natural to apply for exemptions from the capital adequacy directive for the Export Finances ASA – as long as they are for the justification of the capital adequacy directive itself. That's the one. But the second is that the probability of getting an exception for the Export Finance ASA was very small. So we were left with the possibility of recapitalising the company, on which the other owners were pretty clear that it would not be a solution, while a whole business life also thought that it would not be enough to recapitalise the Export Finances ASA as a good, robust and long-term arrangement. Then we agree that what we are now proposing is a very good system, a very long-term system, and it is a system that has sufficient robustness in itself to serve Norwegian export activity in connection with this. That's why I'm a little surprised by the criticism that's now being raised – I'm convinced that it would be far worse to try to go on the road and seek an exception for Export Finance, for Norwegian business. It has been much better to go straight, as the government has actually done. It has been the best strategy to achieve the fastest possible predictability for an extremely important part of Norwegian business. It's a long-term and good solution that we're now adopting. We all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e408	I have a great deal of understanding that the chairman of the committee is struggling to repeat fully justified, critical comments in the previous vote. This does not mean that one disagrees with the way forward – we agree on that – but the story of what was done, and especially about what was not done, is solid. The reason why it has been repeated – and I understand that it may be annoying to read, but it's just to skip it and go to the conclusions that you agree on – is simply that this was very important. It wasn't just the opposition on Stortinget that meant this, it was the entire Norwegian business that depends on this. As the representative Alf Egil Holmelid said in his post, there were massive enquiries and very many who were concerned about it. When the representative of Aasland describes the government's behaviour in this matter as 'right on', I will not simply join it. It was very early that there could be opportunities to apply for an exception. That we end up with something else, and with a good order, has nothing to do with it. You didn't know at that point what could happen. There would be opportunities for that, there would be two independent legal investigations, and the government's approach was in my opinion hesitant, the signals were cracking, and there was considerable uncertainty around it. I also said in my post that we would like to leave this. What we have meant is in the previous setting, and it's in this setting. We agree, as I said in my first post, about the way forward. This is absolutely crucial for Norwegian business, and we do not disagree with that at all. But that's the way it is -- whoever's in charge of the running business can never free himself from what you've done. That it gets annoying then that the history description is repeated, I can't really do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e417	The representative Fleet can't do anything about the fact that the history description seems annoying, but he can do something about the history description being incorrect. It is quite possible for the representative to do something about it, because it is simply wrong that the government's approach was hesitant or shaky. Export finance ASA, which is currently responsible for these loan schemes, is a private enterprise. In fact, the state has a ownership of it, but we are the third largest owner, it operates on commercial business principles. It has been subject to EU legislation for financial institutions since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, i.e. also under bourgeois governments. No government has ever taken the initiative to exempt that institution from this legislation. It is also the case that the Minister of Finance has mentioned this several times in this Chamber – I believe even he has said that it is neither possible nor desirable to obtain a derogation, precisely because Norway is pushing for greater soundness of banking in Europe so that we do not get up in the situations we were in during the financial crisis. We simply want strong banks. Nevertheless, we think it was reasonable to give Export Finance ASA time to find an opportunity for a capitalisation. As I said, this is a private enterprise, and if all the owners had been involved in it, the state would of course also have been involved in such a capitalisation. But there is reason to stress that if one had capitalised export finance, there would still be restrictions on how much loans Export finance could give, simply because one could not imagine an infinite capitalization of the company. It would also be such that export finance still had to raise loans in the market. So now we're going to have an arrangement based on the state's liquidity and capital. That means that then it's unlimited what kind of loan can be given. It also means that we are not dependent on deposits in a very uncertain market. We go into tough times, and I think that such a system that we have now come up with is the best one any country can have. But I also think it was reasonable for us to give Export Finance ASA and the other owners an opportunity to find a solution within the old system. Here we've been consistent from day one, we've acted when we had to, and there's no business anywhere that's lost a single contract because of any uncertainty. So it is that there are often political games, games and criticisms of things, and there are some concerns. Sometimes one might imagine that the game of party politics was put a little aside for the overall: creating secure framework conditions for Norwegian export companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e434	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e437	I'm not contributing to any rewriting of the story. What happened when this occurred in the fall of 2010, was no political game from the opposition at all. There was a concern for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian export industry, and there was a massive approach from industry to seeking exemptions from this. It has nothing to do with the fact that the Right believes that you should not be covered by the new capital adequacy rules – that is what we believe absolutely. But there were others who had applied for an exception, and there were opportunities for that. In business, it was perceived that the government was in many ways hesitant. Now I hear the Council of State say that he has never been hesitant, and it is possible that it corresponds better to his nature, but that is the way it was perceived.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e443	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e457	As the rapporteur, I am delighted to present a free trade agreement between the EFTA States and Montenegro and an agreement on trade in agricultural products between Norway and Montenegro, signed at the EFTA Ministerial meeting in Geneva on 14 November 2011, from a unanimous NSC. The agreement provides Norway with improved market access for industrial products, agricultural products and fish. The Free Trade Agreement provides for improved market access for Norwegian exports by removing Montenegro from all customs duties on industrial products at the time of entry into force of the Agreement. This is the first agreement negotiated with a separate chapter on trade and sustainable development, which is identical to the EFTA Model Chapter. The chapter covers environmental and employee rights provisions and contributes to raising awareness and acceptance of trade in a way that contributes to sustainable development. Montenegro has ratified all major human rights conventions, and enforcement is consistently acceptable, but much remains to be done in the fight against corruption and economic crime. Norway's trade with Montenegro is limited. Both in 2009 and 2010 it amounted to only 3 million. kr. Among the main Norwegian exports are machinery, chemical products, electrical machinery, base metals and optical and medical instruments. The main import items from Montenegro are weapons, ammunition, vehicle, nuts and fruit. Our biggest investor in Montenegro is Telenor. We have successful cooperation with Montenegro and it is assumed that Montenegro will seek further assistance for the development of the justice sector and the development of natural resource management in relation to coastal oil exploration. Since the Free Trade Agreement and the bilateral agricultural agreement are considered a matter of particular importance, the consent of the Storting to ratification is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The Ministry of Finance is empowered to implement the customs aspects of the Free Trade Agreement and the Agreement on Agriculture with Montenegro for the 2012 budgetary period, and on the basis of the extent of trade, the Agreement will not have budgetary implications of particular importance. The agreements will facilitate increased trade between Norway and Montenegro, and this can bring socio-economic benefits for both countries, even though we are talking about a small volume here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e476	It is with pleasure that the Christian People’s Party today gives its consent to the ratification of a free trade agreement between the EFTA States and Montenegro and a bilateral agreement on trade in agricultural products between Norway and Montenegro. As the rapporteur pointed out, these agreements will have a very limited economic impact on Norwegian business. Total trade in goods between the EFTA States and Montenegro was slightly above 14 million in 2010. US dollars, and Norway's share of this was just $3 million. kr. We believe, however, that there is reason to rejoice that the conclusion of these trade agreements also involves a small step, but in our opinion an important step towards normalising the situation in the Balkans. Montenegro is located in a part of Europe that has been rife with ethnic and religious contradictions and has experienced a tragic and bloody period of war and terror when former Yugoslavia broke up in the 1990s. During the Kosovo conflict in 1999, NATO was involved in bloody acts of war with Montenegro’s neighbouring Serbia, and this conflict led to Kosovo’s declaration of independence and became a new state bordering Montenegro. In a part of Europe where NATO of many is associated with bombs, death and suffering, it is particularly important that Norway take active steps to show our good will for cooperation. To heal wounds from the past by creating a basis for trade and peaceful relations has a value in itself, which goes far beyond a limited export value measured in kroner or dollars for Norwegian goods. The conclusion of trade agreements regulates the industrial relationship between Norway and Montenegro, but also has an important symbolic effect on a young nation that strives to put a bad past behind it and become part of the good company in Europe. A trip in the Balkans gives many strong impressions – heavily armed border guards who, decades ago, moved freely like good neighbors, church towers and minarites side by side, bullet holes and marks after the grenade in centuries-old buildings and cultural monuments. The Christian People’s Party will therefore express great satisfaction that EFTA also sees the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement with Montenegro as an instrument to contribute to increased stability in the region. We hope that increased interaction between the EFTA States and Montenegro, and the bilateral relationship between our two countries, can contribute to continued positive developments in human rights, democratisation and conflict reduction in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e491	I very much appreciate the unanimous vote of the Committee on the consent to the ratification of a free trade agreement between the EFTA States and Montenegro and an agreement on trade in agricultural products between Norway and Montenegro. The Free Trade Agreement with Montenegro is part of Norwegian Western Balkans policy. This policy is to integrate the countries of the Western Balkans into European and transatlantic structures, to work for political stability in the region, to contribute to social and economic development and to support democratisation. The Free Trade Agreement will ensure that Montenegrin products have as good access to the Norwegian market as other European countries. We hope that imports from Montenegro will increase as a result of this agreement. Negotiations with Montenegro took place for half a year and are a result of the good relationship and common interest between EFTA and Montenegro in trade policy. For Norway, the FTA means improved market access for industrial products, agricultural products and fish. Montenegro shall remove all customs duties on industrial products from the entry into force of the Agreement. Access to foreign markets is central to business in Norway. Free trade agreements open up foreign markets and are an important contribution to supporting increased activity, innovation, production and employment in Norway. Increased trade is highly concerned with Norwegian jobs. The government therefore prioritises the work on free trade agreements. We emphasise human rights, the environment and employee rights in our free trade agreements. The Government is committed to ensuring that trade policy takes account of sustainable development. The Free Trade Agreement with Montenegro is the first agreement on which we have had an impact on the EFTA Model Chapter on Trade and Sustainable Development, and is thus the second post-Hong Kong Agreement containing environmental and labour rights provisions. The Chapter contributes to the raising of awareness and acceptance of trade in a way that contributes to sustainable development. Trade with Montenegro is modest – 2 million. kr in 2011 – but I still dare to claim that the free trade agreement is important for both countries. The Free Trade Agreement contributes to the integration of Montenegro into the European market and ensures Norwegian exporters as good conditions in Montenegro as EU enterprises. The free trade agreement is expected to contribute positively to further economic cooperation between countries. The Government is therefore pleased with the Storting's commitment to ratifying this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e508	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e524	We who are in this room are very lucky. We have a job to go to where we get to contribute to the community, and not least we can use our abilities. Fortunately, most people in Norway have it this way. Nevertheless, there are many people who do not have equal opportunities to fit in with the labour market. Recent developments have shown that there are considerable differences between the counties in the extent to which people with reduced working capacity are helped to get out of work. My message today is that the government must ensure that geography is not the key to getting the help you need. There has been a marked increase in the number of people with disabilities in recent years. From January 2006 to May this year, this number has increased from 153 100 to 212,707 people, i.e. an increase of approx. 60,000 people. In January 2006, 61,700 were involved in different labour market measures, and for 2012, the government has provided only 54,200 action sites. It was also confirmed in the revised national budget. This means that in 2006 they got approx. 40 pst. of those with reduced ability to work, while for 2012 only 25 pst has been reported. will have this opportunity. So we all know that at the same time, there has been a change from temporary unpaid pay to the AAP, but just as fully, there are many more people who are now in the group that need assistance from Nav to get back to work. That is why the Christian People's Party has repeatedly raised this matter. The Christian People's Party wants a greater commitment to labour market measures to ensure that people who can, and will, work are given the opportunity to be part of the working life. It is therefore essential that the Council of State ensures that action can be taken quickly, and that the Nav undertakes a qualified clearance of work so that they can take appropriate action. In NOU 2012: 6, from the Brofoss committee, it says: I quote: ‘Research shows that long-term absences increase the likelihood of retirement from work. With a long waiting period, both qualifications, working capacity and work motivation may be impaired. Therefore, the early deployment of efforts may be essential for success.’ This shows that early action through more good measures and good job clearance and follow-up is essential for more people to be able to get to work. At the same time as we receive more measures, the quality of the measures is crucial. The starting point for this interpellation is precisely the large differences between the states to the extent that they succeed in getting people out of social security and out in ordinary work. Figures from the relaying companies show that in Telemark 67 pst. by the participants in ‘Work with assistance’ back to work in 2010, while in Sogn and Fjordane the share was only 15 pst. Had all the counties been as good as Telemark, we might have doubled the return to work. This is just one action, and there are figures from 2010. We know that the figures will certainly vary from year to year and between the different measures. At the same time, it is very problematic that there is such a big gap between the states, and that there are no greater demands on the effect of the measures on the part of the government. Repeatedly, the results, statistics and impact of the various measures have been requested, but the responses are incomplete. When I visited Nav in Telemark to find out what the secret of the good results is, I met a humble county management. But at the same time, they were clear. In 2008, they got 24 pst. by the participants to work, and the new Nav Manager made demands. They were supposed to have 70 pst., and they measure the companies in the county every quarter on whether they're reaching that target. From 24 pst. in 2008 they were able to obtain 67 pst in 2010. – an incredible turnaround that means enormously much to many people. But they also gave me the same challenge: why don't you demand that Nav succeed in getting 70 pst. back to work? I think it was a timely question, which is sent to the Council of State. The government has to make demands on the states to be sure that resources are being used in the best possible way, because I don't think that Nav actually has numbers on how many of the action sites that result in ordinary work. The numbers I'm referring to are from the reconnaissance companies. But I'd like to hear the numbers the state council operates with, and she can point out, because I would argue that comparable dissemination results from state to state are incredibly interesting for magnification and government. We know that early action is working. The labour market enterprises have suggested that it averages about a quarter of the total. 900 days from the end of work until the start of a labour market measure. Governments have rejected these numbers, but what are the real numbers? When we know that early action is absolutely crucial, the question is, When does Nav give these people the help they need? I would like an answer to that question. At the same time, waiting time between different interventions is also a major problem. Firstly, it shows that it is important for Nav to ask the user for the right action, but some people will need more action. They have to wait a long time between measures, leave them out of work and reduce the impact of the previous action. Although this is also crucial, Nav cannot give me good answers as to what the waiting time is between the measures. That's why I hope the Council of State can do it today. The feature of Nav where they succeed is that they are competent, that they have over time the focus on re-entry and results, that they impose requirements on re-entry holdings with consistency for those who do not deliver well enough, and that there is good organisation of the measures, so that users do not stay between different actions. That we don't have enough overview of the results when we're going to make decisions is problematic. Not least, it's problematic that we see that there are so many differences between states and states. There are several areas in Nav where there are very large differences in productivity and efficiency between the counties. The National Audit Office also provided striking criticism of Nav in a report on efficient resource use in Nav. Finnmark, which is the least efficient state, has a productivity of 50 pst. lower than Upland, which is the most effective state. If everyone were as productive as the five most efficient states, Nav could have released nearly 300 employees. This shows that the government's policy has not done well enough. Governments must make demands so that we can ensure that this bias does not continue, and that we learn from the best states. And lately, we've got new numbers that show that there's going to be more and more failure. At the same time, we know that 80 pst. of all new workers come from redundancy payments. That means we have to put a larger click on this field. Because it is not easy to get dissatisfied in Norway, it is a long process that must go through. But it's too easy to be forgotten by Nav, and you're unfortunately very dependent on being lucky with your local office. When you're going to talk about this field and these things, there can be a lot of numbers -- and we can easily forget the people behind the numbers. Statistics must not cause us to distance ourselves from those who really need a helping hand. The Council of State cannot take it easy to see that in some parts of Norway it is going well — it must ensure that quality and assistance are as good in all of Norway. It should not depend on whether you live in Uppland or Finnmark, Telemark or Sogn and Fjordane. The paradox, and my heartache, is that I experience today's industry going ahead and want more efficiency and greater professional pressure, while it seems as if the government is not listening and ignoring the recordings. So my challenge to the Council of State is: how can the Council of State accept that Nav delivers so different results, and what can be done to ensure equal efficiency across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e557	I would first of all like to thank the representative, Mr Ropstad, for putting this issue on the agenda. Working for all is one of the main objectives of the government. The budget allocates large financial resources to this every year. At the same time, we must constantly review the results of our efforts and see to what extent we actually succeed in getting people out of the labour market to work on a permanent basis. I am very concerned about how we can document the results and effects of different measures and instruments, and I have also underlined that measuring transition to work is a central task for the Working and Welfare Unit. In order to obtain better information on the results of job-oriented actions, I have asked the Directorate of Employment to produce statistics on transition to work for 6 months and 18 months after the end of labour market measures. When this is available, we will not only see if people have come to work, but also how long they are actually in the employment relationship. There is also general cooperation between the Ministry and the Directorate to further develop the statistics for people with disabilities, in order to best respond to the knowledge needs we have. In addition, external evaluations carried out by different research environments provide good information on how these actions work. Results can be measured in different ways, and it is important to be aware of what the numbers represent at any time. I'm not here to trace an important debate by hanging out on method questions. Nevertheless, I would like to mention that the figures referred to in Roppstad’s questions and in the Evening Post’s headlines are taken from the reporting by the management companies on the final causes of persons participating in the ‘Work with assistance’ action in 2010. So I don't have a basis for evaluating definitions and comparisons in terms of these numbers. Preliminary figures from the Labour and Welfare Act on the final results of persons who have participated in the ‘Work with assistance’ also indicate the range of differences, but not with such variations as appear in the figures of the Employment Companies and the mission that was the basis for the Evening Post. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the results of individual measures vary between different states, not in themselves are surprising. For example, the results could be influenced by the fact that a county has a focus on «Work with assistance» participants with easy assistance needs, or whether most of the participants are people with complex and comprehensive follow-up needs. The content of the implementation of measures can also be applied differently among different action organisers. In addition, we know that there may be differences in the local labour market, which make it easier or more difficult to get into work after action. However, when these reservations are now mentioned, I would say that the figures provide a basis for important discussions and reflections around what can be done to achieve better results across the country. Significant efforts are already being made to increase the quality of interventions and to ensure increased knowledge of what works and what does not work. More needs to come. At the initiative of the Industry Association, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare has cooperated with the professional organisations to develop quality indicators that may be part of a benchmarking/bench learning system. Such a system may help to improve and develop the quality of actions in the screened sector and may also be used to develop the cooperation of action organisers with Nav. The system has been tested for the time being in Nav Oslo and some of their cooperatives. With regard to Nav’s follow-up to the results of the different organisers of measures, this may vary slightly. In some places, closer dialogue will be needed between Nav and the action company, both with regard to work transition objectives and how this will be followed up. However, according to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, there is a reinforced focus on transition to work in Nav, and this is also emphasised in the management dialogue between the directorate and the county offices. It is Nav at county level that concludes agreements on the implementation of measures with each enterprise, and these agreements set out the quantitative and qualitative objectives to be achieved by the organisers of measures. The «Work with assistance» action is subject to performance requirements related to dissemination to work. Target achievement is reviewed in half-yearly/annual meetings between the action enterprise and Nav. Results achieved and reasons for non-conformities are discussed at meetings and new performance requirements are set for the forthcoming agreement period. At the same time, it should not be emphasised that, in some regions, it may be challenging for Nav to provide alternative response sites for users of the measures in the protected sector, if the cooperating action organisers provide too poor. Nav is also committed to improving the quality of the work-oriented user follow-up carried out internally in the department. In 2012, a labour-oriented user follow-up standard will be introduced in all counties, based on experience in three experimental states. The aim of developing a labour-oriented user follow-up standard is to increase the quality of follow-up work, to ensure a level playing field for users at different Nav offices and to increase the number of people involved in work and activity. Not long ago, after reviewing and evaluating the role of sheltered enterprises in labour market policy and the use of instruments for people with disabilities, a public sample provided its investigation. In this context, I would like to mention in particular the need for the sample to strengthen the quality control of both the content of the measures and the way they are implemented and the final result. In particular, measures are needed to improve the quality of the implementation of measures and the final outcome. It also points out that there is a need for more research into the impact of measures on people with disabilities, so that we get more knowledge about what works for different groups. I look forward to following up this work. In the first place, however, I would like to wait for the broad consultation that is now taking place to ensure that I get the best possible input. The question of what we can do to ensure good efficiency and increased transition to work from action across the country will be central to the follow-up to the Brofoss Committee's investigation and to the design of government's efforts to increase employment and reduce social security in the years to come. To conclude, I would like to say that I believe this post shows that we are doing a lot to address the concerns expressed by the representative. It's not that Nav doesn't have an overview of how and where we succeed. I have from the moment I put my foot in my Council office, been very busy with just this. It's complicated measurements – we have to be aware of that. What we're going to meet when we ask these questions, which I also ask, is that it's hard to measure the effect of this. We can't rest on that, and I've also expressed that in this article. We can't rest on not knowing, but we just have to be a little bit humble for the results. What I've been very concerned about is that we also need to know where people are over time. There is no point in giving a company a good shot because you get someone to work quickly. This may result in both the management company concentrating its efforts on some and may not follow-up over time. We also need to know where people are after 6 and 18 months. Then we also need to know that far on the way, these are often people who are not like most people in this room, who come to work and are there until retirement at 70 years. That's why sometimes we have to have room for a broken professional career that's also ahead of these people. I mean, Nav's getting better. I think I've got about 40 pst. of those on redundancy pay comes to work, but we're going to get better. I want to give the representative the right to have a challenge that there are waiting times to get people to action. We've discussed that many times. It will be very wrong of me to say that it is not a challenge. That's because we've done a methodology through work clearance money where we have a way to figure out what's the real need, because we used to have people on other types of benefits. At the same time, we have a high level of action. So we're right there, and then what do we do? Should we continue to increase the level of action, or should we sit down and think, as we do now, what should be the future, what do we best succeed in, what should Nav do himself? I am very concerned that Nav also needs to be better at doing a good part of these things himself and have therefore equipped Nav, both through the job strategy, through this work clearance project and through special funds in the 2012 budget, with the possibility of also running this type of job itself. I think that's absolutely crucial for us to make Nav better over time. Finally, I now record that the representative of the Christian People’s Party is also clear that we are becoming many more disabled. So that's not right. I can prove that. We have just discussed this in the journal Work and Welfare – Nav's own statistics have gone through this. The point is that the proportion of the population on disability pension doesn't go up, but of course I don't settle for it. That's not good. We should get it down. But I think that we should have a constructive and good debate in the future on what to do with those who are on disability pension, we need to be clear about what our challenge is. Our challenge is that we have, in fact, had a slight decrease – actually – since 2006, but it is too high anyway. But 40 pst. So of those who go on the AAP, they get into work. That means there's a good lot of people left who don't. Then I hear the opposition say, "Why don't you get them to work?" Then I would like to ask you to go into your own payroll and think about which people we are dealing with. These are not – as I have said with a little big words – people who, after having had a good lunch, get to work. They often have difficult and big challenges, and I ask for respect for the fact that it is not a simple job. Some of the simple tools that I launch myself are not going to solve these problems – it doesn't last. We're going to do our job, but I think we're going to do it day after day, not least through the new disability insurance system that we've adopted, which is going to make it easier to combine work and social security. That's what's important, because many of these people don't come back to work in the usual way. They must have a well-organised job in a working life that opens the doors to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e599	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad that the Council of State realizes the challenges, wants more knowledge and is willing to dig into the numbers and figure out what works. At the same time, I would also like to point out that I have not claimed that it is easy to get all the people into work, but I want to remind ourselves that we can do more. That's why I showed you the number. When I say that there will be more accidents, I agree with the Council of State that the proportion has not necessarily increased, but the number for this year – by March – has reached the figures set in the state budget should be in December, and we know that the rest of the year there will be many more. When the Council of State points out that we get 40 pst. Of those on redundancy pay, it's good, but that means 60 pst. does not come out. When we look at the high number, that means 100,000 more unfinished, maybe even more. My point is, can we just calm down that we can get 40 pst. back? I don't want to. Therefore, my example was that in 2008 Telemark was able to get 24 pst. back through ‘Work with assistance’ and that they made demands. It gave the companies the consequence that if they did not achieve results, then Nav sat down with them, worked with them, while they were clear that if they did not deliver over time, they would rather use another company that delivered better. My point is just: What are the goals of the Council of State? Is she satisfied with 40 pst., or does she want to set requirements for Nav and say that we should have 60 pst. back again? Tell me what I have to do to get it to. That is the debate I want, because I do not disagree with the Council of State that this is a major challenge. So I also want to focus on what are the concrete numbers? How long does a person have to wait before taking action? How long must a wait between measures be taken? I fully agree with the other points raised by the Council of State. I'm glad there's both statistics about this and that it's being investigated. But when one knows that it's the early effort and the close follow-up that makes one succeed, my scepticism applies to the system, when we don't get out more than 40 pst., also that I think there's an improvement potential there. That's why I've lifted the interpellation. I would like to repeat the questions I had in my post, which went on what the waiting time is, and if the Council of State is satisfied with it – and if the Council of State can also comment on whether she has any other objectives than 40 pst. Then to the Brofoss Committee. I have to admit that I was a little disappointed that there was no clearer response from the Brofoss Committee, but I agree with the Council of State that of course one should have a round on this, and see what happens. When one refers to the job strategy and the attempt in connection with the revised national budget now, I think it is an affordable initiative. But that's not many hundreds of people. If we are able to find new measures that can work, then the Christian People's Party is not against it. But the point is that we can't just wait and see, we have to keep focusing as much on this group as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e625	Calm me down? I don't settle down! I do not understand that the representative can say that I am settling down. I'm working on this all the time, the government is proposing new measures all the time. If I look at the difference between the opposition's proposal and the government's proposal, it's best to look at some action areas. But it's not going to solve the challenge we're facing. I think we can agree that we have major challenges in common. The main challenge is that working life outside these gates is not open to people with disabilities. And it's not going to be more open when we have a large immigration of young people from, for example, working life. Sweden, which has no problems, which competes in a completely different way. We just have to be aware that these are major challenges. So the representative asks me what my goal is. I have asked other parts of the opposition at Stortinget – not the representative – about their goals. I return this question, because I have to always explain what my goal is. What is the objective of the opposition? I think everyone in this room knows that setting a measurement will be a little bit wise. We have to work consistently. I fully agree – and should be a guarantor – that we should require Nav to impose requirements on the reintroduction companies that supply. However, we should be aware that there are also difficulties in delivering some of these requirements. It is not the case that there are good reindeer farms everywhere in this country. It's also a challenge. That is why I am very concerned that Nav must be able to do that job much better. Then I can't push myself to comment on the Job Strategy. I hear all the time that this is too small, it involves too few people. We're going to be aware that if we had put five times as many things into this job strategy, when the year was over, we would have been left with failing to fill these action spaces. Recruiting people is not that easy, nor are young people. It's about motivation. It's a long, heavy job. These are people who have been told over many years that they do not have a role in society, do not have a role in professional life. Then we can argue about how many action areas we're going to put in from day one. I know that at some point I'm going to be charged that all of these places are not filled. I think we're gonna make it, but that's challenging enough. Let's do it. What these young people and Nav – we all – need to see now is that they succeed in what we're doing. So we're going to step this up once we've achieved these results. Let's try to agree on what we agree on, in an area where we really need to group our cancers. I challenge again: what are the measurement numbers? I'm going to be offensive, but we don't necessarily have to say that 40 pst. is a very bad result. We want the number to get higher -- it's going to get higher -- but that's not necessarily a very bad result.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e644	Thank you very much to the town of Roops, who are travelling the interpellation. We need to discuss this matter, because it is not easy. It's not going to be easy in the future either. The more often we take the debate in this house, the more often we take the debate in other contexts and in other forums, the more other actors will focus on this. That's right, as the Council of State says, we have to create more. So far, we've focused a lot on repairing the individuals. We're repairing people so they can be ready for the A4 world that's out there. Nevertheless, the world is rarely very A4 – after all. There might be other things that slow this down that people get to work. Creating motivation and breaking down the barriers of employers, which are ultimately the ones to choose to hire, may be the main objective. One of the reasons I have a very strong belief in the job strategy for people with disabilities is that it makes it visible to all employers that the problem might not have been as big as it looked. Blinds could use data. This wasn't a challenge. Ergo is spreading it. In the autumn, the NHO launches a somewhat more offensive project called 'Calls in the Water', which is about exactly the same thing. A starting point, a motivating the employers. They're the recruiters, and they're the ones who make a conscious choice to include. Once this process is launched, knowledge and attitudes will spread. I've been a part of visiting different companies. Among other things, I was in Sandnessjön together with HEAS and industry from Sortland to look at a reinsurance company that has very good results. They work in a region that has traditionally been quite economically poor — there has been very little variation in possible jobs. Anyway, they've made it work. That's why I was curious. What do they do? What kind of grip are the right ones? The answers they gave were that they worked very closely with Nav. They had very good dialogue and followed very closely. Even when they had finished the internal part, what was in the company, the employees followed quite closely to the company where they were going to work normally – followed them a little longer than what was really required. It worked very well. We see that different companies are implementing different measures that work well. It is not that one answer, one enterprise, one solution, one state – then we found the final answer. There is a lot of good work being done around different companies in Norway. However, we should not settle for the fact that the chances of getting back to work after you have received redundancy payments or measures are worse in some parts of the country than in others. That's not good enough. That's why it's important that we follow up. The companies themselves have completed the round and received the EQUAS certification. It says something about the quality, skills and skills of the company. They are part of the project to find out the quality measurements: what is a good company delivering? It is very important that we follow up that job with the companies. They have traditionally and historically had this task in Norway over a very long time, they have tremendous competence in this field, and they will have an important role to play on behalf of society in the future. We're going to work with the industry to do this, but we can't do that if we don't have the employers on the team. If we are to get solutions to something not only Norway is struggling with – it is not a strange phenomenon, this is a global phenomenon – we need to have ownership of all the actors. That means that here in the Chamber and in the Government we own this case; the different Nav directors have to own and take responsibility for their territory, their region. This is so demanding that if you do not have full ownership and full focus from all the actors, it becomes very demanding – unnecessarily demanding. With us, regionally, we have had an enterprise that has been early out with a lot of measures. It's A2G, located in Åsane, Bergen. They were one of the first companies to launch the EQUAS certification, to get it in place. What they saw very clearly and thought was a big point, was that if you were to do that, you had to systematically build on knowledge. They borrowed in a way the continuous improvement thinking of the petroleum sector, and I think that's something we need to build into the system, and make sure that this is a sector that doesn't settle down with any 40 pst, but it's always stretching out the little extra to make sure this is resolved for the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e665	I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important theme of employment policy. Over many years, we politicians have said that we want more people into the world of work, and that there should be room for everyone who wants to work. In 2012, there are still more groups of people outside the ordinary world of work, without even having the opportunity to try to be self-helped, and to become aware of the feeling of being contributors and of belonging to a community in a workplace. Those of us who have been a long life in work know how important and good it is to have a job to go to, where we bond and create networks, to be able to listen to an environment where we can get challenges and not least to use ourselves in different ways and get knowledge and skills that are gold worth for society and for the individual. The party of progress is concerned that when people want to go to work, we let them pass out as recipients of social security. Having guarantees and strategies when these don't work doesn't help. It is absolutely necessary for Nav to have the right competence when it comes to counseling, so that a right person can take the right action. It is also important to have the right skills to follow up action organisers, and not least local labour market knowledge in order to establish contact with business. I would like to say something that the county boundaries do not have to be a restriction where the right and the free action is available to the individual. In fact, there may be a short distance between the states. No human being is equal, and all have their abilities and talents. This is the one that must be focused, not all of you should go into the same actions to reduce another queue in Nav. When we see that there's so much difference between the two, it becomes very random who gets help, and who doesn't get it. It's not supposed to be a decision whether to allow a person to get into work based on the state of a random cage. Then I'll re-record this with state limits. I would like to receive feedback from the Council of State on what is being done with regard to the borders around. Do they cross the boundaries if there are free space available to each individual? Telemark County is a good example of the fact that Nav has seen demands for management companies, while at the same time showing flexibility in regulation by tailoring the measures to individuals, the results are also good. The party of progress has always been aware that there must be closer and individual follow-up of the individual, so that a person is given the skills, motivation and ability to work in order to get him in the right action. Nav needs to have the right competence in the first line to provide the best guidance and advice possible, so that actions are customised to the user and not vice versa. We need more professionalism and less bureaucracy, so that those who work on this in Nav get the space they need to do the best possible job. And finally, I want to say that what we're actually quite certain about is that we want to get the most into the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e688	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very central theme, which the Right has also raised earlier. Not only is it to have a job of central importance for what kind of economic situation you should be in the rest of your life, it is also vital for identity, for self-esteem and for what kind of social community you are part of. This is why the Right believes it is so important to get the most out of work, which is why it is so important that the measures that politicians grant money work best for those who need them. This year's budget was therefore a major effort in this field, with a total of 400 million. fresh crowns. However, it does not help to grant money for action if the measures we grant money for do not work. There's a lesson we're sitting in this hall, perhaps more often should have taken over us. I'm glad that the Council of State now tells me that she's asked the Directorate to produce statistics in this field, because the most important thing is not how much money we spend, but how they're spent, and in this field, it means how many people actually manage to pass on to work. The interpellation point we just heard underlines the point that there is not only more money and more places you need. There is no more money that has made the dissemination of employment so much higher in Telemark than in some other countries. What has made this communication so much higher, for example: in Telemark, are good management and concrete objectives. It doesn't have to cost that much, but it requires that the field be given priority, and that you work systematically with it over a longer period of time. The State thread challenges the opposition to measures. The target debate is probably difficult, but one answer can be: look at Nav Telemark! Unfortunately, this government has not given sufficient priority to this field. Therefore, they have not had an overview of how many are disseminated to the labour market from different measures. Fortunately, we've had some figures, but they come from the NHO and the management companies, not from the department. We've tried several times to get such numbers from the department, without luck. That's too bad. After all, we're going to grant 7 billion. kr here every year. Although I understand that the department is not going to follow each of the participants, better control of the results of this money should probably be available. 7 B.C.E. NOK is a lot of money. But the billions are one thing – people are much more important. The really tragic thing about this situation is the fate of all those who, with proper follow-up, could get out of work, but who, because of living in the wrong state, or perhaps going into the wrong local Nav office, end up on disability or with the year after year getting around the system as measures. In the transition to the new Nav system, the dissemination of work has been relatively low priority. That's not good in the long run. Let it be clear: everyone who has the right to benefits will get them – at the right time. And major reform periods are difficult. But we have to be able to have two things in our head at once: Nav has to be a work force as well as a welfare seat. It is important for users who want jobs rather than benefits, and it is not least important for the sustainability of our welfare society. When you look at the size of the country-wide differences that the interpellant raises, you know that something's wrong. Nav all over the country needs to become a better and more professional order and claim the companies you pay. At the same time, Nav has to impose equal demands on itself and its own actions. It is problematic that there are differences between the Nav countries, but unfortunately there are also differences between the individual Nav offices. It is really necessary that the Council of States address this issue and choose to give priority to this work in the future. The type of differences between the states pointed to by the interpellant is unacceptable. It shows that very much in this field can be done significantly better without having to put the floor on your head. You need to prioritize the field and follow it up over time and have clear goals. I expect, like the interpellant, that the Council of State will choose to give priority to this work. I am pleased that the Council of State assures us that there will be a strengthened focus on transition to work. Finally, I would like to say that I am excited about the follow-up by the Council of State to the report of the Brofoss Committee – that consultation round is about to be completed. I would like to say from this speaker that I hope it will come out in a big message, so that the Stortinget can discuss this field thoroughly and in its full width – especially because the Brofoss selection itself was so unclear, yes actually three-part.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e705	The Interpellant Ruppstad addresses issues related to action capacity, efficiency and non-discrimination, quality and equal capacity in the counties in its interpellation. There's important questions interpellant travels. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that our welfare services function well. We need efficient services based on each one. When Nina or Joseph comes to Nav, they'll get a good job assessment. Together, they and Nav staff shall identify actions and follow-up that lead them towards a life where they can either support themselves, have the possibility of meaningful employment, treatment or education. For the Workers' Party, it is an objective that everyone should participate with what they can, and what they have the opportunity to do. That's why we've been busy taking the big grips. We want a more inclusive society and, together with the Central Party and the Swedish Government, have taken the necessary steps to pursue employment policies in that direction. Nav is one of these major reforms. I spoke to a company manager once who has both international and national experience, and he said that there has never been such a big change in private business as the one Nav has been through. The conversion has been almost unimaginable. Employees have gone far, and beyond, because they have believed in the reform. The work on new reforms that we have imposed on them, such as sick leave, the management of unemployment and actions in the context of the financial crisis, disability reform and pension reform, is such a major step forward. The Christian People's Party has also been for these. Does the representative Roppstad and the rest of the right-hand side think that they could have put even more tasks into Nav earlier when they complain that things have gone too late or taken too long? The working party wants Nav to work better. We want more expertise and a functioning ICT system. We want the establishment to be monitored more closely in terms of quality and content of services. In the revised national budget, the government reports an increase in the use of wage subsidies, and it has provided a job strategy. The IA work, where tripartite cooperation is at the heart of practical follow-up in the workplace, is an important prevention measure against long-term absence from work. Projects are under way and the evaluation follows many of these actions. The working party will have better quality, more individualised actions and fewer that go around between actions that do not work, as has been mentioned here. I believe that the bet that the government has made, and that the Council of State is following, is very important, and it is good. It is not easy to deal with people who have been out of work or who have been out of work for a short or longer time. In the feedback that has come to me, it has among other things. have been called upon to pay a salary subsidy. In Lwigal there was an enterprise that said they could have four or five more places if there had been a pay subsidy scheme. Now this gets into place. One element that Rupstad's interpellation takes up, and that I experience becomes very simple, is that they only demand a percentage. They want a percentage measure -- it should be 40 pst., 50 pst., 60 pst.? The most important thing in this work is that we have employees with good social knowledge, who have to follow up, and it has to be an individual assessment of each. Another area that separates us from the right is employment policy in general. The Council of State stated that there are different reasons why there may be different results in the different counties. In Lindesnes, for example, which has been a Christian People's Party and Right-Chaired municipality, the proportion of young people who are disabled has been above 15 p.m., while in other municipalities it has been much lower. Setting percentages and comparing just by percentages is not going to be right, in my view. I also note that the right again uses negatively charged words about people who need help. Now it is the name of those in need of assistance and assistance. I think it's a little sad. Then to the district policy. Here we talk about workplaces where there are big differences between municipalities. A distinction is also made between employment policies in the district. The Right and Advance Party – and it seems that the Christian People's Party is approaching them – will have much more market-oriented and market-driven labour policies. This means that there will be even fewer jobs out in the districts. We fully support the measures taken to get more involved. We understand that it is a difficult job, and that employees out there must have good competence and better individual follow-up. There shall be more individual tailoring, so that several shall be provided with the appropriate measures for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e737	I just want to start with a little bit of discretion until the last speaker said. She says that the Progress Party and the Right stand for a market-driven labour policy, that the Christian People's Party is now committed to it, and that it means fewer jobs. Let me ask the question, why? What is the alternative? Is it not the case that most enterprises in this country rely on – and participate in – a market to sell their goods and services? The alternative is an economically closed society consisting of publicly owned enterprises. If that's what the Labour Party's policy is, it's at least a big system change that's come from that edge. But enough about it. I think it's an interesting debate, and I'll praise the interpellant to address an important question. What it's all about in my head – and for the Advancement Party – is simply to be able to realize dreams of several of those who want to participate in the world of work, who today for some reason are outside that world of work. That is the main entrance to our policies and thinking: how are we going to be able to realize the dreams of those people who want to participate in a working life, either in whole or in part? Then there are many grips that need to be taken. Among other things, we must: get a more tailor-made Nav system that can follow-up across the country, which was actually one of the intentions of the Nav reform when we addressed the first big-and-big message in 2002–03 and the proposition in 2004–2005. The whole intention was a tailor-made system that could follow up the user and succeed in moving people from social security to work. We do not see that you have succeeded today. We've got more fragmentation, more subdivision, and we see that it varies widely, depending on where you live in the country. That is why I think the interpellation and questioning of the interpellant are timely. I'm a little surprised when the Council of State and representatives from the position turn the other way around when we challenge: what is the objective of the current government in terms of labour market policy? What goal has been set? Can you define the target? Can you make the target visible? Can you make that goal clear? You go right in the defensive position and act like bad opposition politicians. It is such that one would think that it was the opposition who set and had the control of this country. Here we are sitting with a majority government, and it is quite natural that it is the one who has to define his own policy, making the political objectives that have been set to succeed in getting more people to work. I'm glad that the Council of State says that the waiting time can be experienced long, and that there's something they want to catch up to, that's something they want to do about, to try to get it down. But I also record that the Council of State in its response has little faith in the labour market efforts in this area, because it repeats, not only in this debate, but in more debates, that it not only helps to get more action places in the labour market enterprises, it does not solve the problem. But then we know that the companies that have succeeded are the ones that are working well on this. We see it both in Telemark and in Nord-Trøndelag, which is high on the statistics for people who have been on action and who have come out in ordinary work again. There is also an indication that it is beneficial and that it is an important tool. In conclusion, when the Council of State plays with figures and says that there has not been any more dissatisfaction with the proportion of the population, we have to remember that the reason for this is that it is almost similar to 2006, it is just to go in and check the statistics. However, this is because we have much older people over 67 years of age, who are no longer eligible for disability benefit – that is part of the explanation – while in 2010 55 000 disabled people were transferred to unemployment benefit. So here you're juggling and tricking a little bit with the statistics, at my discretion. Finally, I want a clear response from the Council of State: How do you want to follow up on the Brofoss Committee? Would you like to make a concrete big message? Councils of State include: says today, is that we also need to discuss whether Nav can do more, and she is convinced that Nav can do more in this area. That means that she stands on this platform in many ways and says that the government will make proposals according to model 2, as the Brofoss Committee has presented. I would like it confirmed or cancelled if it is model 2 government going for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e753	First, I would like to thank committee colleagues for a good debate and for many good contributions. Both the width of the posts and the moments that are lifted shows that it is not a simple matter to solve, but that we agree that we can do more, and that by focusing on efficiency you might also be able to sue the companies and Nav to deliver even better results. What's been my main goal is to look at the successful states and see what we can learn. That's why I also refer to those Nav offices that work – where one manages to get many out of work. What characterises them is that they have competent staff who can clarify well, provide proper measures and early measures. Then you've focused on re-entry and on the result. They have made demands on the management companies, and they have in fact had consequences, so that they give priority to the companies that deliver well – as seen, they also deprioritise those who do not deliver well. Then there is also good organisation of the measures, so that you don't stay between them. This also sums up my main score. When we know that it is crucial to address measures, when we know that there is no waiting time between them, when we know that it is essential that we do not go too long on different measures, then we must have good targets on what we want to achieve. When I record that the Council of State does not have a goal with the policy of reintroduction – and returns the question to me – it reminds me of what the Nav management in Telemark said. They said that when they set the goal of getting 70 pst. back to work again, they said around: this is madness, this is not possible. In 2010 they were there. I'm calling for a target like that. The council doesn't use the word ‘malfunction’ – I don't know if it's law, President – but when she points out that we can't do this, it reminds me a little about the same resistance. That's why I want to say the goal must be up to 60-70 pst. If we just get 40 pst out, that means that of the 212,000 with reduced working capacity, 127 000 will end up failing in the next two to three years. I'm not saying that the Council of State settles down on that, but I'm asking her to increase the objective, asking her to tell Nav that we're going to have even more out. And what can she do as a councillor to do that? I think Nav has a lot of good answers, but I also think that the Council of State through management and by learning from the states and offices that work, can do a lot too. It is crucial to have an inclusive working life, but it is also essential to have a policy to include those who have fallen out. That's the group we're talking about most now, because there's already 212,000 people who need an even more active policy to get out and back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e768	The President would say that «malfunction» is hardly a good parliamentary expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e771	Thanks – again – for the interpellation, the debate shows that it is important. We must not go out after this interpellation debate and believe that Nav at all does not know what they have of deliveries. It's been said a lot of times, but it's not going to be right even if it's said a lot of times. So it's like, as I said in my post, that Nav locally and at the county level follows up the company in conversations and has clear goals. We don't have those numbers at the aggregate level. We're going to, I can promise, I've ordered that. It's important for me to be able to practice a general expression, but it's not like you don't know. The second thing you also know from 2011, based on the letter of allocation, just so you are aware, is that it is made clear that in the case of those with moderate assistance needs, we need statistics on when they come into work – after 6 months, 18 months, etc. – and from 2012 we will have the same with those with disabilities. So we never have to believe that these numbers always tell us the truth, because there are very different groups of people we're dealing with. So not succeeding doesn't have to mean that it's done a bad job from a rehab company. It can be complex things. But that's what's important. So we know, essentially, what we need to know. It's important to be aware of. So I fully agree that we should always be better at printing and learning from the good examples. However, you should be aware that the figures you use in the evening post are related to ‘Work with assistance’. Otherwise, Nav’s figures show that Telemark is generally no better than other states with reduced working capacity. It's about the same number, about 37-40 pst. You have to be aware of that. Then there are differences – and we're going to be better at it – but this debate is based on a slightly erroneous basis that Telemark is generally much better. Nothing would have pleased me more, but we just have to be clear on it. Then I hear that 60-70 pst. is the right thing. I don't want to go into a debate about that, but I want to go into a debate that I'm being accused of not setting an objective. The government is constantly accused by an opposition that it does not deliver well enough. Then it's not so very unnatural that I want to know: what would be good enough? Because I have to know what you mean to deliver on. That's my challenge. I think we'll think about it before we set a national target of 60-70 pst. Then we have to work a lot, much better with the tools, and we have to work a lot, much better with the business world. It's a long-term goal. I see that many people have been concerned that Nav has been worse in periods, and that is quite correct. We know that Nav during the reorganization was unable to give priority to this. I'm not going to substantiate that. We have a common responsibility for that, because it happened as a consequence of the implementation of the Nav reform. Now Nav is going on in a completely different way with this. I'm going to do my part to make demands considering that you should have a click on this, and that you should learn from the good examples. Then, on a later occasion, we get to argue about the objectives. Finally, there is an opportunity to move through the state – that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e794	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e808	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e817	Finally, a lot of people will say, when the Stortinget now makes the law that predator attacks on dogs are incorporated into the emergency facilities. There are a lot of people who have been calling for such a change in the law for many years, and that is an important decision we are now making. There is a joint committee behind the vote, of course, as this is a follow-up to the 2011 Robbery Agreement, which all the parties agreed on. The agreement was agreed by Stortinget on 17 June last year in the examination of the representative proposal 163 S for 2010-2011. In point 2.4.1 of the proposal for a representative: ‘The emergency measures are amended so that predators can be killed in order to protect dogs from direct attacks on predators. The conciliators shall be included on advice prior to the promotion of the bill to the Stortinget.’» The premise on the possibility of killing a wild in an emergency can be found today in Section 17 of the Natural Disaster Act. Here's what it's called: ‘Wild may be killed when it is deemed necessary to remove a current and significant risk of injury to a person. The owner, or one acting on behalf of the owner, may kill game under direct attack on buffalo, tamrein, pig and poultry.» Now it is suggested to add a dog, so that game can be killed under direct attack not only on buffs, tamrein, pigs and poultry, but also on dogs. This gives the dog a necessary protection in the law. This is a system that Sweden has had a time, and the evaluation from there shows that it has worked well. There is probably a theoretical possibility that the emergency protection of dogs may be misused to lure predators into killing them, but the evaluation of the system in Sweden does not provide any basis for saying that it will happen. The proposal also includes a proposal for correction in the outdoor laws agreed by the entire committee. In the open air law, in my view, it is an important right, and a right that in many ways is a continuation of a customary right, that is, the right to remain of the excess in nature. Not least for berry-picking. When you talk about it, you can dream a little bit away from the staging room and into a big bog far to the mountain where on an August day, there are red-green cloudberries over the moor. One can become the water in the mouth of less than one such dream. I'm so old that I've experienced that picking berries wasn't just a leisure activity or a hobby. It was also a necessary addition to the household. For some landowners, the cloud bear can also have an economic value, and it is in the regulation of this law that was, to put it mildly, somewhat unclear, also in the Prop bill. 88 L for 2010–2011, which we discussed on 10 June last year. It has the right to pick moles in the three northernmost states. In the setting of this proposition, we, in good cooperation with the department, were cleared up what was unclear, and the Storting joined the setting. With an incursion, however, a sentence was too much, which is now fixed again. Thus, there should be no reason to misunderstand or misinterpret the right. In the three northernmost states, it is allowed to pick and take moles as long as the owner has not expressly prohibited plucking. Regardless of such a prohibition, generally supported moles can be picked at the site. In order for the owner or user to be able to prohibit the plucking of mole, the exploitation of the mole must have an economic impact on the landowner. Thus we can hope for a good berry house for all of us and a safer life for our bikini.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e847	You can hope so. The President has also noted that the Council of State responsible is not present in the Chamber during the proceedings of this case, but the Government is represented by the Council of State Bjurstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e852	I would like to support Case Spokesman Torstein Rudihagen in that this legal text is finally ready. Integrating a dog into the emergency emergency paragraph in the natural disaster law is in the process of finding a solution. This was a very long-term solution, which comes a whole year after the robbery settlement was a fact. In this way, a question can be asked as to why this did not happen last fall, since it has now been assessed so that even a law hearing is not necessary. But let it be, and let's rather rejoice today that by this decision, as a colleague's committee stands behind, we have put in place a more complete emergency paragraph. The argument that someone wants to use a dog to lure predators is so unimaginable that I don't want to go into that problem at all. Then we get to hold up the pressure when it comes to unresolved issues like wolf zones and clarifications with our neighboring countries, especially when it comes to the wolf problem. It is important that the negotiated predatory agreement is respected by all, and that one avoids over-testing of local and regional names and their decisions, where one has achieved the target population. Something else will not be put on with goodwill, as it was – and is – an arrangement for the Progress Party to be involved in the conciliation. Let's enjoy today that a dog is now embedded in the emergency paragraph, as many have wanted for a long time. At the same time, I would like to express support for the correction of Section 5 of the Outdoor Law. I could ask a number of questions to the Council of State, but since the right Council of State is not in place today, I choose not to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e863	I would like to thank the case spokesperson for a very thorough review of the case and also for additional comments, which I support far along the way, and which are very interesting. Right is very pleased that the Stortinget can finally integrate a dog into the emergency shelter areas, according to the predatory game agreement a year ago. The point of emergency in the predatory game settlement that was entered into quite exactly a year ago is that the emergency shelters are changed so that predators can be killed in order to protect dogs from direct attacks on predators, and that settlement parties are to be included in advice before the bill is submitted to the Stortinget. The need for dogs is an important measure of conflict mitigation. There is little or no impact on the stock of wild game, but there is much to say for those who travel in wild game-laden areas, and the emergency services have been compensated since the previous game-laundering agreement was concluded in 2004. In several respects, the right has previously wanted a dog to be admitted to emergency areas. The processing of Prop was rejected at the latest. 75 L for 2009–2010 on changes in natural disasters. Right's foundation to go in to change the law to also apply to dog were the same then as now. The primary objective of emergency care is to contribute to greater security for livestock owners and dog owners. There are also good experiences from a similar practice of emergency care in Sweden. Emergency notices shall not be part of the active file manager, and emergency notices shall apply regardless of whether the stock measure has been reached. The agreement also points to other aspects of the predatory game policy to be clarified. This applies to the evaluation of the wolf son and negotiations with Sweden on the frontier herds of wolves. I see that the Council of State is not in the Chamber today, but I still want to use this opportunity to ask how these processes are going, and not least that the Council of State can later give a signal about progress and when these matters are submitted to the Stortinget. The rapprochement was made by a mass accumulation, and it is important that you can keep a good and open dialogue on these questions as well. It is also important that work is given priority in the ministry. The case of an emergency has been working with us from 2004 until today. A major concern is that unease in the government is slowing down important decisions when it comes to robbery policy, and one hopes, of course, that this important theme will not be slowed down. Right-wing wants a predatory policy to be based on a fundamental principle with respect for individuals and communities, respect for property rights and full compensation for the rights lost. An important part of this is to be able to defend himself and be against attacks from predators, and therefore the Right is pleased that the need for dogs is now finally in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e891	The Scissor draws some beautiful images of our nature and the berry fields. I still think there's good reason to claim that the case-speaker was in no way a carrier in his post, but on the contrary was very pointed and correct in the descriptions of the changes that we are making here in that area, and because we introduce the emergency of dogs under attack by predators, and in that way the dog ensures the same protection as other domestic animals, when they are under predator attack. This configuration has been collected and it's very nice. In the Center Party, we've been working on this solution for a long time, and now there's a bunch of stuff behind it. We know the background. It is last year's predatory settlement that led to increased focus on those who live, live and feed in predatory areas – increasing the focus on them, greater respect for them. There was an important change in the policy of predators, for many people don't stick to predators on paper, in books or in the media, they have them in their own neighborhood. I am pleased that the case spokesman indicates that there is no reason to claim, as has been done, that this change in law is used to lure predators by means of a dog. On the contrary, there is little reason to put trust in it, and he refers to the evaluation done. Today, we are introducing an important anti-conflict action, and we are helping to create greater security for those who live and live in predatory areas – it is joyous.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e900	As a result of last year's predatory game deal, there's a one-off big deal that's behind a change in emergency protection paragraph. It is a change that has been discussed for a long time and that has been controversial, and it has been a demanding matter. When it has been a demanding matter, it is because illegal hunting has been one of the main causes of death among wolves in Scandinavia. We have recent documents to show that. In 2010, we were so lucky that for the first time, we reached the Stortinget's goal of having three young wolves on Norwegian soil – the Slagås-pair breed, the Linnekleppen-pair bred and the Kynna-pair bred. In 2011, we were equally lucky, we had three young people on Norwegian soil – the Julussa couple bred, the Aurskog couple bred, and the Slagås couple bred again. The sad message we got in April this year is that of the couples who have bred in the last two years, we've split up four of them. Wolves are social animals that live in allegiance, if nothing unexpected happens. Worst of all, the male wolf in the Kynna Revir, which was Norway's most important genetic individual of the wolf, disappeared. We lost Galven-tispa, which was the second most important, and also disappeared tispa in the Linna valve and tispa in the Aurskog. There is no natural explanation for the disappearance of so many Alphas. I am, however, of those who support today's change. I have spent a lot of time with those who have worked for this, and those who have worked for this in the first place are the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishers' Federation. Norway’s Hunters and Fishermen’s Association has made a very clear – according to my concepts – argument for this. They have stressed that we have a hunting ground in Norway that will take responsibility, which has self-justice, and that will not contribute to what Ecokrim and many had feared, namely that it was a little too easy to use a dog as a bait to take a wolf. Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association has stressed that for them this has been about trust in the Norwegian hunting industry. A new review came from the Scandinavian wolf project related to illegal hunting for wolves in Norway and Sweden in spring. It shows an interesting trend, which is that illegal hunting in Sweden has fallen, while the same developments in Norway are not visible. This proposal makes no difference to the situation in Norway and Sweden in this area. I hope with this proposal that we get a development in Norway that is similar to that in Sweden, and that the proposal helps to create confidence and is anti-conflict in such a way that the alpha pairs we have today established by wolves in Norway are the same when we get the monitoring figures next year. If so, this amendment has had the desired effect. It's a bad predatory policy for everyone to engage in illegal hunting. Splitting Alphas is a bad predatory policy. We get more wolf on hiking, more wolf in places where we don't have control, and more wolf that's out there taking domestic animals in areas where you're not as well prepared. Stable couples are the easiest for the administration to deal with, the easiest for the industry to deal with, and what creates the greater degree of predictability. As I have said to the Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen's Association, I believe that when this piece falls into place, which, in my opinion, should happen as soon as possible given that the change will come into force and apply to the current hunting season, that next year we will have far better numbers to deal with than the year's figures, and that the wolf will have a safe future in meeting in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e917	The President has noticed that the responsible State Council has arrived at the Chamber at the end of the debate. The President will only draw attention to the fact that the Stortinget assumes that the responsible Council of State is present when we start the debate on the responsibilities of the Council of State. That should be well-known to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e920	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that a dog is now included in the emergency court, as the predator agreement led to an agreement. We were very pleased with the agreement and also that this point has come in, precisely because the Christian People's Party has taken several initiatives to include the dog. Our representative in the committee, Line Henriette Hemdal, has been an active driver for that to happen. I believe it is obvious that a dog should have the same protection as other domestic animals. That is why I am pleased that the members of the Committee underline the very nature of this point. I am also pleased that the case rapporteur and others have indicated that a dog is not being used as a decoy. We who are concerned with hunting, occupied by nature, and who are happy in not only wolf, but also other animals, know that for a hunter there is nothing more evil than to lose a dog. That's why I also know that no one will use their own dog to lure a wolf to shoot it. It's important to underline. I also have to touch the post of the representative Sørensen, because I think she has many important points in her post. Should predatory policy be sustainable and anchored, it is important that it creates confidence, that it is anti-conflict and that it has legitimacy out there among people. I agree with the representative in many of the perspectives, and also that this change that is taking place today is such that it will contribute to greater policy consolidation – including the policy that will create a balance between taking care of our predators, while at the same time allowing us to operate, for example. agriculture. We are happy that the change is coming, and we believe that it will create a better predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e931	As the President and everyone else are aware, there is a close dialogue between the Committee and the Council of State, or the Council of State office, on how to implement matters. In this case, the message I received was that it was agreed that there should be no debate in the hall. I myself have as a knowledge minister in such a case sitting in the hall under other people's affairs. If it turns out to be a mistake, I will quickly contribute to a clarification and find out what has happened in this case. Then I want to say a little bit about the content of the matter. I am in the special situation that I am going to present, or answer for, a bill based on a representative proposal that I myself presented – not alone. On 17 June 2011, the representatives of Martin Kolberg, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Erna Solberg, Dagfinn Høybräten, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Trine Skei Grande and me were discussed, and it actually got the agreement of Stortinget. I see that there are some representatives in the hall who, as far as I can remember, were quite pleased with the implementation of that point. There has been a process until that, and what is now being presented is a bill that changes the needy owners of natural disasters § 17 – a rule that gives access to killing game under direct attack on buffalo, tamrein, pig and poultry. The proposed change of law means that a dog is trapped in the custody, so that it is also available to kill a wild dog as an attack. I think that's a right change to make. It's also completely in line with the predatory game deal that Stortinget is behind. It is important for me as the Council of State to implement it in line with what we have been a few about in the Storting, because the legitimacy of the predatory game management depends on its good implementation. It is also a minor matter: the proposed change in the laws of nature. It also includes a change in outdoor law § 5. It's about an incursion that happened when the laws were changed on 16 September 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e945	The President is pleased that there is a good dialogue between the Committee and the State Council. But if there has been an opinion that there should not be a debate on this matter, I think the long debate we have had is evidence that there is not a good dialogue between the Committee and the Council of State. In addition, this is a room where all 169 representatives can take part in a debate. So it is not a room where there is only a debate between the Council of State and the Committee which has a matter for consideration. It should also be clear to the Council of State that he is present at the start of the debate. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e952	In the debate that is going on, the wolf problem is being highlighted. There are claims that there are a number of Alphas that have now disappeared, and an assumption that this is due to illegal hunting. What do the Council of State think about these thoughts – are these thoughts that he supports? In this case, what is done to substantiate the claims about – a mine – that there is an illegal pursuit of an animal in an area where no one is supposed to hunt, for example, a wolf?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e959	When it comes to illegal hunting, I don't really support thoughts, but documentation. If illegal hunting is documented, an investigation and prosecution shall be carried out in a general manner. But maybe at least the same importance is to prevent, to ensure that we have a good and proper administration, and that we have an oversight, the State's nature oversight and others, that can be involved in that prevention. Of course, I am strongly opposed to illegal hunting; it is illegal. It has to be turned on, but of course it has to be documented. I don't want to go into debates about thoughts or statements; I'm busy that it's being documented, and then it's being talked into in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e966	It was a shame that the Council of State wasn't here a little bit earlier, because there were several good points in the matter. Otherwise, I think it is exciting to have a crew change in the Ministry of the Environment, and it is also good to be reminded that the representative Solhjell was involved in signing the Robbery Agreement. It's positive, and we're looking forward to it being passed on. There are two issues in the robberies agreement that I want to focus a little on, and that we are going to work with in the future. This applies to the evaluation of the wolf son, and it applies to the negotiations with Sweden on cross-border flocks of wolves. These are things that work in the department, and I think it might be interesting to right from the Council of State what progress is when it comes to these two points. When does the Council of State think that something can be presented to the Storting with regard to the two themes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e975	When it comes to the evaluation of the wolf son, as the representative may be aware, a selection has been set down to implement it, which has actually been given a rather short deadline, because we are busy doing it reasonably quickly. I dare not stand here and say anything about the progress of this evaluation. This will depend on what you get in the evaluation, and how many changes you're going to make. In the follow-up to that, I'll be busy doing it in a way that's in line with what's in the predatory game deal, and that it happens in the necessary dialogue between the parties. The government will come back to the question, but I dare not say in what form and at what time. Map of negotiations with Sweden: We are more in a process dialogue phase now. The Swedes have a lot of work to do. I want to come back both about the process and about the contents of that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e987	Thanks for the answer. There was a lot of serious allegations about illegal hunting for wolves earlier today. I would like the Council of State to take a position on this, possibly even if this can be documented, and I would also like to know in what form the documentation on illegal hunting of wolves is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e994	I actually answered the exact same thing instead, so I'll now give you a shorter version. I am busy with documentation. It's serious about illegal hunting. If this occurs, it shall be stated and followed in a general manner. Then I'm busy preventing it by good administration and by the fact that the state, by the state's nature oversight and others, is active to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1001	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1006	The reason I take the floor is the passion between the President and the Council of State, and the conclusion that remained, that there was no good dialogue between the Committee and the Council of State. Then I just have to say that it is; it is good dialogue. We on the Committee's side have not indicated at any time that there will be no debate. How that misunderstanding has arisen, I can't quite certainly explain, but I can point out that we now have two issues in our committee dealing with changes in the laws of nature. This is one of them. Another is more about correcting an incursion that goes on the legal, i.e. the possibility of sanctions, the punishment of natural disasters. It may be that these matters are confusing. No matter what: I'm busy not getting the impression after the president's statement is that the dialogue is bad. At least that's not my impression as a committee leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1013	That's good to hear. Communication with the Council of State should take place in plenary session in Stortinget – also.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1017	The rapprochement contained a point on strengthening the surveillance of large predators in Norway and strengthening the data on predators, which is responsible for monitoring large predators in Norway. My assessment is that after the establishment a relatively short time ago, Rovdata enjoys great confidence and that the job that has been done has been a success. I am very pleased with the support that Rovdata has received on several occasions, both in the comments of the Committee and directly in this Chamber. There was a message from Rovdata that was the background because I thought there was a reason to mention that we have lost four alpha animals. It came in April, and I believe that this is a serious situation for the wolf. But my best hope is that with the change we are now making in the emergency guard paragraph, we will not see similar numbers from our good, competent surveillance to the next spring. Then I referred to an investigation that shows that the illegal hunt in Sweden is going down. It comes from Skandulv, which is the Scandinavian wolf research. It is the same as saying that this is not the case in Norway. As far as I know, this is a problem which has been a very important back ground for the debate on emergency workers. I'm looking at the change we're making in the emergency section today, as a measure to avoid what the scientists are telling us is no longer going to happen. With that, I would also like to take the opportunity to say thank you for the good cooperation that led to a rapture settlement, and that in such a demanding area as predatory game management, it is a great strength to be able to make decisions, as we are doing today, unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1036	We're now ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1750	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1760	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1869	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1879	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1899	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1943	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1953	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-06.ana.ud257e1965	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
