ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e55	The representative, Henning Skumsvoll, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e58	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Per-Willy Amundsen, Oskar J. Grimstad, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Åge Starheim and myself, I would like to make a proposal to limit the county's right of objection in municipal planning and land matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e63	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e77	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e86	The state of Norway is originally established in the territory of two people, Samer and Nordmann, and it is natural that we treat the Sametinge Annual Report every year. Samemen is an indigenous people who have a call for special cultural protection under international law. The majority in this committee, all except the Progress Party, also indicates that the Sameting has been established by the Law of Law of the Constitution § 110a. This gives the whole thing a special status as a popularly elected body with great freedom. It is therefore also responsible for the management areas assigned to it and for the different objectives of the framework available. The majority of the Committee has noted that there is still disagreement between the Confederation and the Government as to the possible implications of the rules of international law on indigenous peoples and minorities for the ministry's work on the government's annual draft budget for the Stortinget. The same majority have noted that there was still agreement on a set of procedures to be followed in contact between the Sameting and the Government on the parts of the State budget relating to Sami purposes. The majority ask for further work to be done on these issues with a view to obtaining a process that can be agreed between both parties. The majority of the Committee also points out that the investment in Sami languages is central to the preservation of the Sami culture. We are familiar with the challenges of finding interpreters, in particular lule and southern Sami. The majority also believe that the Sametinget has a special task in assisting municipalities in the Sami language area to develop training tools for training in Sami. The Committee recently visited Nord-Troms and met with the municipality of Kåfjord, which is part of the Sami language area. There we were made aware that Kåfjord needs to develop a great deal of teaching materials and curricula at its own expense. The majority consider that the Sameting has an important role to play in assisting and coordinating this work, and that it is also coordinated across municipal borders in the Sami language area. Then, in the context of the annual report, the government has said that it is assessed to submit the annual report of the Sameting as an annex to the budget, with effect from 2012. The majority, which is still all but the Progress Party, would then stress the importance of the Sámi issue being regularly debated by the Stortinge, and would point out that the annual report of the Sametinge provides such an occasion on an annual basis. On this basis, the majority ask that the annual report of the Sameting should continue to be presented as a separate case to the Stortinget. At the same time, we agree with the government's wish to speed up the processing of the Sameting Annual Report and ask that the government continue to contribute to this. The Committee should also contribute, but we are aware that it will take time. The annual message is to be translated into Sami after the setting has been given, so that it will be – I kept saying – a ‘backlog’ here, that you will hang a little behind, you have to expect. But that it's possible to do this a little faster than we do today, I think it's important. Otherwise, the majority do not have any comments and it is proposed that the notification be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e105	The rapporteur has presented the large majority of the Committee in a good manner, and the lines agreed on. I still need and want to draw up some points. The applicant's rapporteur indicated that a set of procedures had been established for the parts of the State budget relating to Sami matters. There is reason to stress that it will help to improve the ability of the government to gain transparency and to form an image of the situation and the budgetary needs of the Sami community in different areas. It is also important to say that the government has followed up the majority comment of the Innst. 94 S for 2009-2010 on the activities of the Sameting in 2008 — as the majority of the Committee was also concerned with this issue. However, it is not that one has come to an agreement. As the rapporteur said, the majority have been concerned that it must be an objective to reach agreement, and we ask the government to continue working on it in order to have it as a goal. Sámi issues are important issues, and there are few occasions in the United Kingdom to discuss them separately. This has been the basis for the majority’s concern that the annual report on the activities of the Sameting should be a separate case in the Stortinget. The concern is that these important issues can drown in more – let's say – prosaic budgetary issues if they are linked to the state budget. We look forward to continuing to have at least one annual debate on indigenous and Sami issues in the Stortinget. Sami relations, the Sami people and Sami issues are not just about national policies – they have a strong international tenacity. The Northern Region Strategy of the Government – New building blocks in the North Next step in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government – was presented on 1 December 2006 and presented in March 2009. In addition, these two documents provide for a comprehensive, coordinated and long-term North Sea policy. The Northern Region policy of the Government shall also contribute to the security of indigenous languages, culture, industries and social life. One of the seven areas of activity is a priority for indigenous action. The government has been committed to facilitating the participation of indigenous peoples in processes, contributing to planning, decision-making, management, monitoring and research in order to make use of the potential for future north development. It is essential that the positive development in the north is also seen as positive for the indigenous people concerned. In the bet, emphasis is placed on, for example: cross-border indigenous actions in the fields of language, traditional knowledge, culture-based business development, capacity and build-up of competences of Sami institutions and organisations. In the government’s Northern Territory Strategy, the Sami population also has a natural place in the broad focus on people-to-people cooperation and cross-border cultural cooperation in the north. This concerns actions for children and young people and cooperation in health, sport, volunteering, language, culture, film and cultural expressions, such as: festivals. The issue of indigenous peoples is a common policy area for the members of the Arctic Council, and it is high on the agenda of the International Parliamentary Committee, which is also concerned about this and which will address it at its meeting in Iceland later this autumn. Outreach issues have a particular Circumpolar perspective. Cooperation has been established between the local sector interest and employers’ organisations – KS – Sametinget, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Renewal Administration and the Ministry of Churches, which aim to identify the challenges facing the local authority sector in order to meet the national and international obligations. It is about being able to provide equivalent services, including to the Sami population, especially in terms of cultural perspectives and languages. I see this as the follow-up to a majority comment from Innst. 345 S for 2009-2010, Municipal Proposition for 2011. The majority of them indicate that some schemes are in place to reimburse municipalities for specific costs of bilingualism. However, local authorities still have costs related to Sami users, without this being compensated. At the same time, some expenditure, for example: for Sami primary school education, only partially compensated. It is important for me to stress that it is Stortinget and the government's responsibility to facilitate that municipalities have sufficient framework conditions to meet the obligations undertaken by the nation, either through national law or through international agreements. I welcome the fact that this work will be completed when we find a good solution to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e126	The Contracting Party is responsible for ensuring that each citizen enjoys the same fundamental democratic rights, duties and freedoms. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the Sameting has been set up as a special body and that minority groups have been granted special rights because of their ethnicity, and refers, inter alia, to: Deep. 16 S for 2011-2012, cf. Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011, and Innst. 134 S for 2011-2012, cf. Document 8:154 S, where we're talking about this in a detailed way. We have not chosen to go into single points in this report. I'm not going to do that right now, but I want to mention two things, and it goes on special rights. I notice on page 14 about the criminal care and the reconciliation of the coroner. It is strange that when someone violates Norwegian law and is going to zone in a Norwegian prison, some minorities will have special rights during the settlement. If you have violated Norwegian law and are going to zone in a Norwegian prison, you should zone under the conditions of all other zones in prison, no matter what kind of minority groups you belong to. I would also like to make a brief comment on that with Sami administrative areas. It is a little special that we have Sami administrative areas that require that there should be bilingualism in these administrative areas, without even knowing how many people might speak Sami in these areas. The Progress Party is committed to maintaining Sami language and culture, but it turns out that although we have created a synthesis, this does not particularly contribute to the maintenance of culture or language. Fewer and fewer children have Sami language in kindergarten, and fewer have Sami language in school. I think, with respect to reporting, that Sami language and culture could have been preserved in a much better way even if we hadn't had the Sameeting, and even if we hadn't created a body because of ethnicity that gives special rights to a minority. In the end – and it is completely independent of what the Progress Party believes about the establishment of the Sameting: when the Stortinget is to deal with annual reports from outside bodies, it is a great advantage that these annual reports are not too old. We're going to try to discuss realities in an annual report, and when the business report from Sametinget was adopted in Sametinget on 9 March 2011, and we are discussing this matter well and well one year later, I think it's a little disrespectful not only of Stortinget, but also of Sametinget. The reality of this gets so old that it almost doesn't have a reality at all. The merger has now delivered the business report for 2011, while we are here in Stortinget and are discussing the business report for 2010. It's disrespectful. To the extent that we get back such reports and the Sameting continues to exist, I hope that the reports can come much earlier, so that we can at least discuss realities that are real and that are not out of date.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e139	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough review. It has played a central role for more than 20 years, both in the Sami environment and in the general population. It is essential that the forms of cooperation and dialogue between the Federation and the Government function well. Central authorities have a separate responsibility for the preservation and further development of Sami culture. The Christian People's Party wants to build up under the diversity of the Sami society and will participate and secure the right of one's own language, culture and society. The specific nature of the joint must be ensured by passing on their way of life, culture and values to new generations. In order to develop a good policy in this area, there is a need for an understanding of the challenges that exist. At the same time, it is also important to point to all that is positive, such as the Sami film environment, Sami artists who have breakthroughs, and Sami food and travel life. All of this helps to strengthen identity and self-esteem. Common policies require follow-up at all levels of government. State policy premises the development of Sami society and Sami in the big society. State and municipal policies determine a great deal of how the concrete measures reach most people. In Sámi core areas, full bilingualism is assumed in public institutions. Like the representative Eirik Sivertsen, I am pleased that a dialogue will now be established between KS, Sametinget and the two departments responsible. However, schooling has a challenge in providing children with education in and in Sami. The number of children has fallen a lot in recent years. Sami languages and Sami cultural centres are also struggling in several municipalities to obtain financial support. Assimilation policy, which was pursued from the 1800s onwards, was very damaging to the Sami language and its reputation. Language is a very important part of culture. It is therefore important that the Sami language be preserved and continued. The rapporteur was also involved in the two languages of Southern Sami and Lulesamian, where we know that there are major challenges. Action needs to be taken, these Sami languages must be preserved for the future. Child ombudsman Reidar Hjermann has previously said that one of the biggest challenges facing Sami children today is in school. Among other things, he said: that, to put it mildly, the training situation is worrying, because of the lack of both teaching materials in their own language and teachers to learn away, and because of the fact that Vice-Chancellors will not provide room for a flexible schedule. The child ombudsman believes that Sami children do not get what they are entitled to, namely a good Sami language training. There needs to be a conscious effort to train more Sami teachers and pre-school teachers. The process of developing and updating learning materials in Sami needs to be set up. The school must contribute more to raising Norwegian children’s awareness of Sami culture and language. We must also help to ensure that the peculiarity of our fellow human beings is safeguarded by their way of life, culture and values being passed on to new generations. I look forward to having a regular debate in Stortinget on the annual report of Sametinge. I hope it will be presented so that the debate can be taken in this Chamber in an appropriate and good way, and not just as part of a budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e162	Norway was originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmen, and both peoples have the same right to develop culture and language. There is a broad consensus historical and political – with the exception of the Progress Party – that together is an indigenous people. I believe that with this international law they are entitled to special cultural protection. I think it's important that we are conscious of our own indigenous people, and that their situation and position are something that we bigotry politicians are aware of. In this respect, I am pleased that once a year we can debate the annual report of the Stortinget Sameting as a matter of our own, and not just as an attachment to the budget debate. Language is essential for the preservation of culture, and the Sami language is very central to us when we want to secure the Sami culture. Keeping the Sami languages alive is demanding. The Communication refers to the fact that southern Sami and lulesamic are particularly vulnerable language directions in Sami. There are few users, and it is therefore difficult to keep them alive. In many ways, minorities in the minority language are Sami and, in my opinion, require extra attention so that this culture is not lost. A real challenge in this area is that it is difficult to find interpreters for the two languages. Here, the whole thing has a special responsibility. It is important to facilitate that all municipalities have adequate educational resources available in all these languages. Of course, it's important to have enough qualified learning skills. The drop in the number of children who choose Sami as their first or second language in primary school worries me. I want to use the opportunity to highlight the importance of good framework conditions for the reindeer industry. Purgatory is an important Sami tradition — the main traditional bearer of the Sami culture. The cleaning industry depends on good and predictable framework conditions for survival. The large increase in the number of predators that have been in recent years is perhaps the biggest challenge for the industry, and in this area the importance of the predatory game settlement can once again be seen. Increased and faster uptake of pests will help the industry a great deal. Another reason for the loss of animals is the continuous driving of trains. In this respect, I am pleased that the Ministry of Transport has now taken action, and that one through the Railway Agency has developed an action plan aimed at reducing the number of animal crashes from 2,292 in 2010 to 1,400 in 2013. The setting up of fences and other measures is under way, and it is important to prevent new tragedies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e177	The attitude shows that there is still a high degree of political consensus on Sami matters. A large majority agree on the comments in the vote. The merger is the main political body for joint ventures in Norway and it has the task of prioritising the needs of the Sami community. It's in itself a demanding task. It won't be any easier if we, like national politicians from big business and government, were to come up with too many views on what the Sameting should do. I therefore think it is good for the majority to stress that the Sameting is responsible for the areas of management assigned to it and for priorities between different objectives, within the framework available. I agree with the majority of the committee that the investment in Sami languages is absolutely central to ensuring Sami culture. The government has taken on a clear responsibility to ensure the development of the Sami languages, including: through the Sami language action plan. My hope is that this effort will help to increase the number of Sami language users and to make the Sami languages visible in public space. There have been a number of positive developments in the work on the Sami languages, including: we see that more and more adults are taking Sami language courses and that the efforts in Southern Sami and Lulesamian languages have given new energy to the language work in these areas. New venues for meetings between children and young people from Norway and Sweden, such as language camps, have helped to increase the use of lulesamic and southern Sami languages. We need more systematic knowledge of the use of the Sami languages. The Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and the Ministry of the Church have, therefore, jointly funded a study on the extent to which the Sami languages are used. The results of the study were expected in June. The rules of international law on indigenous peoples and minorities must be interpreted and applied to specific issues. In some respects, the Confession perceives that international law goes a little further than the government thinks it does, and we have to live with such disunity. One example is the question of the implications of international law for the work of the government's annual draft budget for the Stortinget. I am pleased that the merger president and I agreed last June on a set of practical procedures to be followed in the contact between the Sameting and the government in the work on the parts of the state budget relating to Sami purposes. I am aware that the majority in the Sameting feel that these procedures are not sufficient, and that the Sameting should have a greater influence on the establishment of the budgetary framework. However, the government believes that it must continue to be that the Storing determines the extent of the appropriations allocated to the Sameting of the State Budget and that it does so on a proposal from the government. The matter has been discussed for a long time, the positions have been clarified, and the chances of reaching consensus are considered as small. I am therefore not interested in any further rounds on the question of budgetary procedures. At the same time, we will consider eventually any improvements to the practical procedures as the merger president and I agreed on almost a year ago. I take note that the majority wants to continue the system of submitting the annual reports of the Sameting in a separate notice to Stortinget, among others. because it gives the Storting an extra opportunity to debate Sami issues. The work of writing a message to the Stortinget about the Sameting business for 2011 is in progress, and I intend to submit it at the end of September. As from the following year, the Ministry intends to submit the annual notifications by the end of June. I would like to note that the message we are now discussing was presented on 25 November 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e203	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e217	The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to assess the extent to which police work on profit crime is in line with Stortingen’s assumption of better prevention, faster response and clarification. The following issues have been addressed: How has police work on winning crimes developed over the period 2006-2010? What are the possible explanations of any non-achievement in the process of winning crimes? How is the satisfaction of the citizens with the work of the police? How does the Ministry of Justice and Police discharge its overall responsibility for preventing and combating the crime of profits? If I are to sum up the report and the Riksrevision's findings in a few words, it must be that this is not good enough. In 2010, profit crime amounted to 59 pst. of all reported crime. At the same time, these were the least-solved offences, only a total of 16.6 pst. In fact, the clearance rate was slightly lower in 2010 than in 2006. For burglaries, the clearance rate is even lower, and it has remained stable around 13 pst. throughout this period. Winning crime affects most people. In addition, if it occurs in one’s own home, it also involves a significant degree of integrity and a sense of insecurity. Therefore, the investigation and resolution of crimes has a bearing on people’s sense of security and also on their confidence in the police. The national survey of police in recent years showed that more than half of the population have a poor or very poor impression of police investigation efforts in terms of theft and burglary. Those who have had contact with the police after being exposed to a criminal incident have lower confidence in the police than the general population. This, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is very serious. Of course, I expect the Department and the Police Directorate to actively engage and implement measures that can build more trust in the police. Some police districts have a higher clearance rate than others. Economic differences and geography do not appear to be the cause of this. However, what seems to be significant are characteristics of districts’ work on profitability. The National Audit Office points out that low clearance rates may be due to the fact that the fight against profit crime in some police districts is not a sufficiently high priority in management, that there are no dedicated police resources for profit crime in police districts, and that there is a lack of analytical capacity. It is important that police districts learn from each other and use the positive experiences of others in the field of profit crime. It is necessary to facilitate the systematic transfer of competence and experience between the districts. That's how everyone can get tips and ideas and thus maybe do an even better job. DNA could in the long run contribute to a higher clearance rate. It is therefore positive that the new graduates from the Police College will be certified for evidence protection of DNA. However, it is also necessary for those who are already trained to develop their skills in this area. The Committee also points to the importance that the police must have a well-functioning computer equipment in their work. In recent years, profit crime has evolved into a part of international organised crime. We are increasingly hearing about travellers, mobile criminals carrying out various types of crime in this country as well. Here, good cross-border cooperation is absolutely necessary in order to combat this. The police are otherwise operating around the country an important prevention work in cooperation with schools and organisations in the community. This work is important both to reduce the level of profitability crime and to prevent new access to criminal environments. The National Audit Office’s investigation clearly shows that much remains before one can say that the clearance rate in the case of winning crimes is satisfactory. It is absolutely necessary that this work be prioritised by the management of the police districts, but also by the Police Directorate and the Minister of Justice. This is also important in order to increase the security and trust of the public in police work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e260	It's not uncommon for us from this pulpit to say that we're dealing with an important matter, but I actually think there's reason to say that today, because this is about a part of the crime scene in our society that affects a lot of our citizens. That's why it's an unusually important thing. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State is very aware of that. I would also like to say here, through the Spokesman's Chair, that the police's leadership at all levels should note that there is a completely unanimous committee, all the parties of the Grand Duchy, who end up on the ballot, and who agree with what the rapporteur has now said in a very good and correct manner. This means that there is an overall increase behind the views expressed both by the National Audit Office and reflected in the position, as the representative, Mr Beckvold, has now expressed. I would also like to say that this is a report from the National Audit Office, which is of the kind we should all learn from – at least it has been in the committee that we have had that approach to the matter. At that time, the control committee is also at its best. Then you can set up markers, move fence posts and highlight views that we feel pretty sure the government will take with it in its further actual work on the development of this part of our fight against crime. So I think it is important to say, as the case-rapporteur was also well aware, that the police are doing very well, of course – also in this field. But as it has been stressed, and as I must also say, it is worrying that the percentage of information is so low – very worrying. The rapporteur referred to the percentages. It's clear that for all those who are responsible for this, and for us as big ones, this is a big challenge. It is for criminal reasons, but it is also about the security of society for the citizens, because it is this crime that, let me use that expression, ordinary people meet in particular, namely burglaries, that they are being stolen, that they lose things of great value to them. So it almost represents 60 pst. of the crime scene, and is that part of it that has almost the lowest percentage of information. Of course, that's a very big concern. The question then is: what is it possible to do with this? That's the big question. I feel, as I have said, already sure that the Council of State will follow up the problem in every way, and that is already done in many ways. It has been said that where the police set up special investigation teams and special environments to deal with this, it is doing better than in those places where it has not been done. It is not stated in the position, but at least I would say from my point of view that if there is one of the points that the government should follow up and that the Police Directorate should follow up, it is almost possible to establish such groups in all the districts – that is one concrete measure – that it is doing so in a concrete way, and that the department is almost making sure that the police director asks the police officers to do so. Then there is one side to this that I hear a lot of stories about, and that I will therefore bring out here – and that has also been raised in the vote – namely the side of the case that goes on the police's mentality in terms of profitability. I do not doubt that the Norwegian police are taking gross profit crime very seriously – I do not doubt it, I will be clear about it. But there's a lot of profit-criminality that's in the so-called small, but that means a lot to the individual. If we – now I put it this way – are in the vicinity of the truth when people don't report because they don't think the police take them solemnly, or that we're near the truth, as it actually appears in the report, that the police behave in such a way that people don't feel that they should actually report the matter, we have a problem. At this point, I would say, as it is written in the setting: this is something that the Council of State has to address. This cannot continue. It's quite obvious that the police and officers' seat must take the individual citizen seriously when they've been robbed of big or small things, because it's the individual's sense of what they've been subjected to, which is what's important in this context. I think we have a clear potential for improvement there. I understand that the police in a stressful everyday life may think that this is small, and almost by body language and in other ways give the impression that this would be preferable to them. However, it is that we cannot have that profile with regard to an important aspect of the fight against crime, because it affects the legitimacy of the police, and that goes beyond the legal certainty of the individual. Then I agree with what is said about ICT. It is not the debate here now, but I heard what the rapporteur said. I agree with that, because it appears very clearly in the report what relates to ICT. It is and will be a matter addressed in the context of police and crime control in several areas of the Control Committee, but also in the Justice Committee and the Stortinget. That's why it's clear that we see that it's a problem that it's important that we get solved, also in the relationship that we're talking about right now. It is very important that we use this report in the way that an overall committee has foreseen, that we should learn from it, and that we should take it further both here in the United Kingdom and also in the Government and in the Police Directorate. I expect that all the views expressed in this debate will be closely followed also in the police's offices, so that they can understand where the Stortinget stands in relation to this important part of our crime scene.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e279	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good job. I would like to say that I essentially agree with all that the case rapporteur said on the floor. To a large extent, I also agree with much of what Martin Kolberg said right now. Then I would like to make it very clear that the findings of the National Audit Office in this investigation are very serious. It has been found that the demands of the Justice Committee and the Grand Council have not been met and that people's confidence in the police has fallen. Winning crime is a type of crime that embraces a wide range of people across the country. Normally, when surveys of people’s confidence in public services are carried out, the result is often that those who have actually used the services are more satisfied than those who have not used the services. For example, studies on the satisfaction of people in the health sector show that those who have actually been in hospitals are consistently more satisfied with the hospital service than those who have not taken advantage of the offer. In the case of the police, it's the opposite. Those who have been in contact with the police are far less satisfied with the police than those who have released that contact. And I'm not talking about the criminals' contact with the police! It's embarrassing to be a politician when the 2010 police cleared up less than 14 pst. of the invasions of dwellings in the country. Experience that someone has broken into your home, rotted through your private things and stolen while you were gone or asleep, is very offensive. That more than 86 pst. the victims are told that the police are not able to resolve the matter completely unsustainable. There are, of course, several reasons for the weak results, and we know that the police have to deal with tight frames. Nevertheless, the difference between police districts is so great that there is a clear difference between those who succeed in this work and those who fail. It's a general move that one in Police Norway is too bad to learn from each other. Surprisingly, something that is successful in one police district is also likely to be successful in the neighbouring district. We're just too bad to learn from each other. It's gotten a little bit better, but there's still great potential. At the same time, we – and the case rapporteur was so much involved – know that the former police director in an inspection hearing with the Control and Constitutional Committee told us that the ICT systems of the police are not suitable for combating crime. These are pretty clear signals. They have been given by the police director to the Ministry of Justice over several years, but the majority in this Chamber have not taken those signals sufficiently seriously. This way, you might say that these results are not surprising. Because it is a clear political responsibility to enable the police to do their job. From 2006 to 2010, the number of reported winning crimes fell by 13 000 cases. The National Audit Office suggests that this may be a result of preventive work and that the actual number of gain-criminal cases has been reduced. In the light of the Progress Party, it is equally likely that it is a result of the opposite. Several of the police districts that have a good percentage of information, or at least a relatively good percentage of information on winning crimes, have experienced an increase in the number of reviews – perhaps because people who get the sense that they are being taken seriously, that they are producing results, and that it is useful to report, while those police districts that do not take this seriously may have a population who know in advance that they do not have any meaning anyway. I fully agree with Mr Kolberg's representative when he says that this is a serious problem. This theory is also supported by the 2010 National Survey of the Police, where it is clear that the most frequent reason why people do not report winning crimes is little confidence that the police will investigate the case and that they believe in advance that the case will be dismissed. This is a critical situation for an agency that is already under pressure of trust. At the same time, we see some lights in the tunnel, especially in those police districts that dare to think a little bit differently, and that look a little beyond their own police district. The cooperation project Grensenlös is a good example of a successful action against profit crime. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigations is to provide a kind of ‘reading’ of how our expectations and decisions produce results in the real world. This epiphany is a serious warning that reality is not in line with the ideals we use. Then we can choose to be passive spectators to it, or we can act to get the job done better. That's the last thing we have to do, everyone in this room. We are at risk of getting into a situation where trust in the police can reach a critical level if one does not implement relatively simple measures to improve police framework conditions, so that they are better able to do the important job they actually have. Finally, I would like to make it clear that this is not about the individual in the police department failing, but about the system failing the individual in service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e298	SV also joins the case-speaker's post. The Committee is consensual in the criticism that arises, and the case-speaker informed us in a good way about this. I want to problematize one thing associated with prevention. Prevention cannot be included in the statistics. So if that's the way the police keep doing things that can't be done in the statistics, but just take away things that can't be done in the statistics, it means that prevention gets a little bit of attention. I don't say that's the case in the police, but my experience as a youth school teacher, with police preventive activity on the part of young people who could open the way to a criminal racetrack, is that the police's presence and priority of prevention just lead to people not becoming criminals. So I sincerely hope that the police don't give priority to prevention because of the statistical orientation that a person often has on the part of the National Audit Office and others. Prevention must be a priority area for the police. The representatives of Kolberg, Anundsen and others have had problems with ICT. I had my week in Rogaland police district last summer. It was quite clear that one of the things that was inefficient was the computer system. It meant that one had to spend more time using computer equipment than one had if one had had proper equipment. Then I think that from Stortinget's side we have to problematize this. I would also ask the State Council to say something concrete about the ICT situation in the police. A joint committee problematizes this in the setting, but I have seen on my own that there is a problem that needs to be solved – and that needs to be resolved quickly – so that the police can actually have time to investigate more profit crime. It is a very important matter that the Committee is discussing today. It means a lot to people's sense of security that an actual researcher is investigating profitability. So I just agree with what most of the speakers have said: this must be a priority of the police, and I expect the Minister of Justice to be ready for this in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e309	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough job and a thorough briefing. What we're talking about is the police's lack of clarification and effort against profit crime. I'm sure there's a lot of people who don't really know what profit-criminalism is. For me, it's simply a thief. It's about the fact that there's too many basement rings that have to operate. There are too many of us who are affected by it, who don't report it, and it's something that goes on in everyday life, it's something that matters most, namely security. The police have a demanding task within scarce allocation frameworks, and the first thing I want to say is – it may be said carefully, but it is more in it – that the Council of State should be more precise in the letter of assignment given to the police, clearer on the priorities that need to be done, so that at least the police can say that well, we stick to the priorities, and if it is such that profit crime and the fight against cellar rings are prioritised down, OK, then it is a result of the scarce framework we have – so that we have a good prioritisation of what applies. Winning crime is on several levels. We have recently seen that the extension of the Schengen Agreement on 21 December 2007 posed major challenges because we got a number of Schengen Member States that have a different culture in view of this. One point then is that the Council of State should step up efforts to stop border cellars. It's one of the most central, so you don't have to strangle with them when they get into the country. I know how demanding it is, but yet, most people say to me: Lundtigen, is it not possible to do more to keep out the basements that are part of international gangs? The weak results, with a percentage of 16.6, are very frightening, and everyone here has experience – I want to tip the water – from not having reported boiler rings because you have experience that there is no sense. I'm among them. There's no point in reporting, and that makes the situation, which the representative of Kolberg was in, more serious than what the figures show. The next thing I want to say is that there are different findings in clarification in different police districts, and that, according to the National Audit Office, is not a result of different financial resources or geographical conditions. I think that's very interesting. What, then, are the characteristics of the work of those districts that have a better clearance rate — what do those districts do better? I'd like to have the Council of State's assessment of it, and draw up the good example. Police are police officers, and police officers like to sit far away. And then there are loners and loners' offices, and there are city halls and city halls, and they're close. I would say that it has developed a culture within many of the public services, that the interaction between public services and civil society has deteriorated over time. This is particularly true in this area. What do I mean by that? In fact, to use that concept, as I know best, an institution with highly employed men was primarily, but now also many women, who had a general respect for their community as a fellow human being, while being professional in their job. Through the respect that you have locally, the participation that women and men have in civil life, in sports, in politics or in other forums, they get a wide-ranging contact area, and the broad contact area is part of the important understanding of society and of the ability to sort out, which they can take with them in their work. Therefore, in my opinion, it is essential that police officers live in the area in which they operate, in order to have better conditions to understand the society in which they live. In my municipality, Upper Eiker, one of the leading drug investigators, and one of those who did the best job among young people in drug prevention, was just such a person, but one who eventually felt little at home in the police because he had a way of interacting with what was on the side of what developed as a police culture. My point is that in both prevention and resolution work, there should be a closer discussion of what professional police work in the community is and an increased emphasis there on interaction with civil society. Public trust in the community is essential, not least in order to prevent it. We all know the politician who points out when a youth drives illegally on mopeds before he's 16. There is a small hand that gives one a strength in his further ‘moped drive’, so to speak. This is very central to how we build up the police, and here's something that's gone. Within the scarce resources that the police constantly want, we need to look at how we can get the interaction between police officers and women and civil society to work better, and there's a lot to do. I'm very excited about the orientation of the Council of State, what are her visions about how this is going to work -- take a concrete example from town or town, there are many of us who are concerned about what is the story to be told.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e330	The police's work on the crime of profit is of great importance to all of us. This is, as has already been said, the crime that affects most people and that numerically dominates them. For many, the police's ability and willingness to combat the crime of profits will be important for the sense of security and confidence that the police are reversing crime. Winning crime has suffered a marked decline in the last five years, and it is joyous. Today, we have 9 000 fewer crimes than five years ago. Dwellings fell by 24.3 p.m. in the last year, which amounts to 1,200 fewer reviews. There are questions about how to attach trust to the numbers in STRASAK. In the case of declarations of profitability, it is also necessary to believe from the point of view of the liability and settlement of the insurance industry that there is a high degree of confidence in the figures in STRASAK in this area. I agree with those who have pointed out that the clearance rate is too low. As Minister of Justice, I welcome the National Audit Office's investigation. In the department we perceive the study as both thorough and good. I see it as a valuable contribution to our continued efforts to combat the crime of profit. Several police districts have already come a long way in transposing good work methods and good forms of work – changing methods and forms of work, compared to the past. Like the National Audit Office, I see that this produces results in terms of a decline in crime and a higher percentage of intelligence. Therefore, in the light of the study, successful ways to organise work on are to be implemented in all police districts. On this side of the summer, a meeting will be held between us in the Ministry of Justice, the Police Director, the National Attorney and Chief Kripos on the status of this work. Several have affected the investment in new technology. It is a central element of a reinforced police effort – not just against the crime of profit. Some things are in place, but more needs to be done. Further strategic planning for the road is ongoing too fully, not least in the Directorate of Police. These are plans which also need quality assurance. Of course, good implementation and competence building plans are to be made and budgetary issues are to be clarified. These are key issues to which I will come back in the forthcoming budget proposal and also in the Communication to the European Parliament on performance reform in the police during this year. When it comes to combating the crime of profit, we face national and international challenges. We have both resident repeaters and mobile profit criminals who travel to Norway for a purpose – to commit crime. Combating crime by both groups requires both knowledge-based and good working methods. In the case of the resident criminals, several police districts already work systematically and well against the repeats. I expect the rest of the districts to incorporate improved working methods, and, as I said, this will be implemented in the current year. In particular, mobile mining criminals challenge the police’s ability to cooperate across district borders. The valuable experience of the four police districts involved in the cooperation project under the name Grenenselos must be a school and a source of inspiration and learning for the rest of the country. It's said that apartment does thieves. By reducing opportunities and preventing crime, we can all help to reduce the rate of crime. If we all get better at securing our assets and taking simple precautions, preferably after advice from the police, we'll be able to ensure a continued decline in crime together with the police. It is a thought-provoking example that if we all learn to hide the PIN code using mini-banking cards, this in itself will make almost impossible so-called shimmering – that is. copy of payment cards for subsequent misuse using the PIN code. We are all concerned that both the security and the confidence of the police are being tested in the work on the crime of winnings. As Minister of Justice, I am concerned that the public's confidence in the police is falling in the proportion of the population that has been in contact with the police. There I agree with the concerns that have already been expressed by this pulpit. I have therefore entrusted the Police Director with the task of establishing a systematic reputation for police activities. We will continue to conduct public studies. These shall be a natural starting point for the development of police action and shall also contribute to further enhancing the security and trust of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e354	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e357	I am glad that the Council of State is also concerned about the development of the lack of trust that we find in the police. What I really asked for the word to get a little clarification on is related to ICT investment. The challenge of ICT investment is that they take a long time, they are very expensive, and they provide no immediate reduction in crime. In the long term, however, this could have a major impact on how to combat crime, not least when you can connect the various registers for investigation purposes. So far, the Ministry of Justice has not taken the enquiries that the former police director has at least told us that she has taken to the Department, in sufficient seriousness, with the result that there has been a withdrawal of money from the police districts to finance a pre-project on the ICT side. It is a strategy that I have understood that this Minister of Justice still has. Can the Minister of Justice tell us whether she will in the future try to make a new investment in ICT betting in the police, so that we do not take that money from the police departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e368	I will come back to the budgetary issues related to ICT investment – that is why I also highlighted in my contribution the increased focus we now have on strategic planning of ICT investment. We have to make sure that we do this the right way. It requires major economic outreach, and it can be of great importance over time for the fight against crime in Norway. The Directorate of Police has therefore also invested in increased competence. There are now several people working with a complete ICT bet. We also plan to ensure this quality and will return to the implementation plan as well. This will be something that will have to go over a longer period of time, and where we ensure that this also works best with other parts of the justice sector. This is something I think we all look forward to coming back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e374	With the concern expressed by all the speakers in this debate about not least respect for the police's work in the field of profit crime, I might have expected a slightly more offensive Council of State. I would like to ask her in particular about a problem such as this. The representative, Lundtegen, was here. The survey shows that there is a large difference in the percentage of clearance between police districts, and it is not possible to say that this is due to resource differences. Why hasn't anything done with it before? Why not use the right of management and instruction of the Department and the Directorate to transfer experiences from one district to another — districts that have set up special groups and use specific methods to pursue both the local and the frontierless profit criminals? Why isn't this done? The Council of State can no longer have the fixed answer, that this is a resource issue to which it comes back in the budget. You can't answer that. So I'm asking you something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e379	I used a large part of my contribution to talk about improved working methods, both methods to be implemented in the districts, and new methods to ensure better cooperation between the districts. I have initiated a meeting with the relevant sections of the police, the Police Directorate, before the summer to ensure that we get ahead of this work. Then we will do more in-depth work on the reform of results that we are now undergoing. There is a message for Stortinget during the year. I am absolutely sure that we will have to work systematically well over time to build both new skills and new methods, build a new culture, a learning-oriented culture, in the police to ensure that we get an ever-increasing improvement in our efforts against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e384	I also noticed that part of the article, about a meeting before the summer holidays with the relevant directorates, etc., but then the expression was used that it was important to hear ‘status’. But we know that, this report from the Riksrevision gives the status in many ways. What we are all dissatisfied with, however, is a lack of results and that some districts are so good, while others are simply miserable. We even asked in the meeting with the National Audit Office whether it was especially urban districts, central districts, that did well. It wasn't. There was no pattern in this, neither resources nor geography was crucial, as the representative Lundtegen also said. Then I wonder: why don't you just order that something be done where the police chief doesn't do it? It can not only be a training or resource issue, but simply a question of willingness to use new and other methods. Maybe you think a little bit too old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e389	The aim is that these new forms of work, new forms of cooperation as well, will be implemented during the year. The implementation responsibility lies in the department under the direction of the Police Directorate, and I think it is important to get a status in the middle of the year to ensure that there is – in good Norwegian – an ‘on track’ in relation to the plans made for this to be implemented during the year. If this is not the case, of course, it is also necessary to discuss what measures need to be taken to further ensure that this will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e394	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e397	The Party and Signatories have a significant commitment and an ardent interest in justice policy. Today, we have a case to deal with that which shows in practice how in Norway profit-criminalisation is deprioritised. The report of the Riksrevision shows, among other things: That only 13 pst. of the home invasions are resolved and that the percentage of the clearance of the winning crimes in general was less than 17 p.p.p. The study also shows that those who have been in contact with the police after having been exposed to profit crime have a less positive view of the police than others. So low prioritisation and clearance of profit crime go directly beyond the confidence of the police. This has been pointed out by several speakers in the debate. You have to ask yourself, is it not soon that this field gets an increased focus? It is about good organisation, and it is about ability and willingness to prioritize. It is important to work specifically to prevent the criminality of profits. In a situation of continuing economic turmoil and increasing unemployment in Europe, it is likely that more EU country profit-criminals will come to Norway and seek happiness here. When the chance of being taken is as low as it is now, you can see it as almost risk-free with the potential for very high returns. We can't have it that way. Action needs to be taken, and urgent action needs to be taken. There are several measures that can be put in place that will be effective. The rapporteur referred to prevention, improvement of the information collection process, repetition follow-up and dedicated investigation teams. In addition, we need to have a clear focus on management and cross-police cooperation, as the representative Anders Anundsen also pointed out. More money and more policemen can, of course, be one of the solutions, but more efficient working methods and increased focus are also very important. When the control committee has cases to deal with, there is almost a tradition that the government council is telling us that yes, this report from the National Audit Office is about things back in time, and now everything is going so much better. In the introduction to the State Council of the Ministry of Justice, she also said that it now looks so much better. I'm not so sure. It is quite correct that there was a better development in 2011, but is this a random variation? Last night we were able to read news that the number of burglaries again is increasing, after the fall in 2011. There were 6,398 burglaries in Norwegian dwellings in the first three months of the year. This is an increase of 16 pst. in relation to the same period last year, according to statistics of the FNO Joint Financial Industry Organisation. The number of burglaries in the first three months of the year has not been higher since 2004. So there's every reason to ask questions about evolution. Communications Director Leif Osland of the FNO says in an article on the FNO website: ‘From these figures, there is reason to fear that the development we saw in 2011 was only a short-term decline.’ The article points out that the high level of Norwegian wealth is tempting for organised criminals from Eastern Europe. The thieves are largely travelling and spend time spying before they hit. Many of the thieves are efficient and fast, both by breaking in and by leaving the dwelling again. More valuable items are also stolen than before. ‘People have become far more comfortable over time to secure their homes with good locks and alarms. There are, however, entirely different challenges to be faced now than in the past with more professional burglaries.’ This is what Osland says in the FNO on this website. One way to go is, of course, to look at the punishment level. I don't think the proposal I read about in the paper yesterday, that you cut down on giving criminal discounts to foreign criminals, is the way to go. We already have a prison system that foreign criminals look at as holiday colonies and hotels, and we have a very low level of punishment. To go this way I think I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e422	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e436	I have to say that the starting point for this case is something special, because it is a register that we call INFOFLYT, which aims to exchange information between the police and the criminal services on particularly dangerous prisoners. Today it is approx. 50 persons registered in the register, while there have been approximately 190 persons. The starting point for such registers is that they shall have a concession from the Data Protection Authority, unless there is a separate legal basis for registration. The register shall not be subject to a concession and shall be governed by law. The Ministry of Justice has stated Section 2 of the Criminal Enforcement Act as the basis for this register. The Data Protection Authority has assessed the legality of the registrations as dubious, and the Ombudsman considers that it is alarming that, despite this, personal data will continue to be processed with the same procedural instructions. It was also found that it took three years from the time the Data Protection Authority raised the matter, until the letter was answered, and four years before a sample was set up to assess the basis of the database of INFOFLYT. The investigation section of the survey has also concluded that the basis for the register is unclear. Of course, it is totally unacceptable that enquiries from the Data Protection Agency to the criminal services with such critical content as what we are talking about here are not handled properly. The starting point is that a register which has neither a licence nor a licence is illegal and is therefore not to be used. It would of course be a relatively dramatic step, because the register we're talking about is itself a rather important register. And no one wants the use of this register to be stopped. It has also been suggested that the Storting may have already adopted a legal basis for the register, but that the amendment of the law has not entered into force, and that there has therefore been no type of permit other than the criminal enforcement law § 2 which may be the basis. So the Storting's intention has never been to stop this register, but it has been to ensure sufficient legal support. In reply to the Committee, the Minister of Justice has assured us that she will take care of this issue during this spring. The Committee has therefore proposed that the Storting should ask the Government as soon as possible to ensure that the basis for INFOFLYT is put in order. This must be done without further delay, in order to ensure that the use of the register must not be stopped. In the end, I want to point out – and I will do so on my own account – that it is worrying that the government starts registration with knowledge and will on such a register with such an unclear basis as is the case here. I myself am inclined to say that it appears quite clear that Section 2 of the Penal Code cannot be used as a basis for this registration, which in case will mean that the State operates an illegal registration. It's not acceptable. I stress that the last opinion is at my expense, not at the Committee's expense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e453	There has been a pressing need for formalised cooperation on information between the police and criminal services. It also struck the case spokesman in a very good way. It is important for all of us to have a tool to prevent, prevent and fight crime. The INFOFLYT system, which was set up in 2005, would be a system for the mutual exchange of information between the criminal services and the police/complaint authority. The system would include, inter alia: provide a better basis for the security assessment of custody prisons and convictions. The information that is being recorded, if committed as an asset, will constitute a special risk of escape, the risk of outside estimates to assist in escape, hostage-taking and the risk of new and particularly serious crime. It also applies to insertions with special protection needs and insertions that may belong to organised criminal networks. No one disagrees that this is an important work. But criminals also have the right to privacy, and when it comes to such a type of registration and transmission of information, it is important that it is provided through a legal secret. The system was established on the basis of the purpose decision in Section 2 of the Criminal Enforcement Act on the prevention of crime, and the Criminal Service has believed that this decision gave legal protection to the system. It's not so weird because it says: ‘The penalty shall be implemented in a manner that takes account of the purpose of the penalty, which discourages new criminal offences, which safeguard society and, within those frameworks, ensure satisfactory conditions for prisoners.’;» In a well-functioning state of law, privacy and the prevention of crime are two very important pillars. Therefore, it is good to see that the Council takes seriously the Civil Ombudsman's criticism. It is in everyone's interest to have a well-functioning and secure system, and both police and criminal services want a safe and operational structure. The INFO-FLYT selection, which is set up in these days, was given a broad and important mandate to assess, among other things. the basis of confidentiality. While the work has been done, a used home in Section 2 has been used as a basis for INFOFLYT, which should also be done until any changes occur. There is a joint committee that says that we don't want to stop the use of the registry pending a home. That is why I would also like to stress that there is a joint committee that expects the foundations to be put in order and that the ministry will give very high priority to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e469	Initially, I would like to refer to my presentation to the Committee in a letter of 6 December 2011 in response to the questions raised by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee regarding INFOFLYT in a letter of 29 November 2011. First, I would like to stress that I take seriously the criticism that the Civil Ombudsman has raised against aspects of the INFOFLYT system. I have also noticed that there are questions about whether the criminal service has sufficient legal support for the system. As I wrote in my letter last year, the department has so far assumed that the purpose of Section 2 of the Penal Code to combat crime has been an adequate legal basis for INFOFLYT. In the light of the criticisms raised, inter alia: from the Civil Ombudsman, I see that the basis of the house can be made clearer. But, as I mentioned earlier, the department has not found that the criticism is sufficient to stop the use of the INFOFLYT system. However, the issues raised have provided the basis for a comprehensive review of all aspects of the system. This is why the sample that has been subjected to INFOFLYT was mandated to assess the basis for INFOFLYT, including whether the new legal provisions of the Penal Code § 4(c) and 4(d) are sufficient as well as the basis for the exchange of information between the police and the criminal services. I have just received the INFOFLYT committee's investigation, and I will briefly explain the selection proposal. First, I would like to mention the four main questions that the sample was asked to consider: After the mandate, the sample was to monitor and assess how the exchange of information between the police and the criminal services is currently taking place. In particular, with regard to the basis of reference for INFOFLYT, the sample should assess whether the new legal rules on the processing of personal data in general provided by the Penal Code §4(c) and 4(d) provide a sufficiently clear basis for the exchange of information with the police. The committee was also asked to propose rules for the processing, exchange and use of information in INFOFLYT, while at the same time drawing up draft laws and regulations that are consistent with the corresponding rules in the new Police Register Act. I can inform you that a unanimous sample believes that the new legal provisions of the Penal Code Chapter 1a are not a sufficiently clear basis of reference for INFOFLYT and that the scheme should be enshrined in its own legal provisions. It can also be mentioned that the sample has produced draft regulations and proposes new administrative procedures for criminal services to help ensure the consistent processing of personal data in INFOFLYT. The committee also emphasises the particular importance of ensuring the privacy of INFOFLYT, because measures that may interfere with the implementation of the criminal offence can be taken. The committee therefore proposes clear rules on what individual prisoners are entitled to have access to. With regard to the proposals for the regulation of INFOFLYT, I would like to emphasise in particular that the sample is concerned that criminal justice is given a clear basis to prevent, prevent and combat crime. In addition, it is proposed to provide information in INFOFLYT to the police for crime-fighting purposes. The committee also suggests that the police records law on the processing of personal data should apply in order to protect the data subject’s rights when processing personal data in INFOFLYT. I believe that the committee's proposals will provide an important and good basis for further work on getting a well-functioning system that ensures the exchange of quality assurance information, with the aim of strengthening the security of both society and individuals at risk from criminal backgrounds. At the same time, the interests of privacy and legal certainty must be properly respected. I am committed to continuing the work on establishing a clearer basis for INFOFLYT. So I want to make sure that this task is given high priority by the ministry. The INFO-FLYT Committee's investigation will be consulted now before the summer, with the aim of launching legislative work during the autumn. Finally, I can inform you that the Department is preparing a regulation for the Criminal Enforcement Act Chapter 1a, so that we can also implement the new rules on the processing of personal data in criminal matters in general as soon as possible. As I have explained earlier, this work is closely linked to the work of preparing the regulation of the police register law, which I hope we will finish during the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e501	I think the first thing I'm going to do is give honor to the committee for doing a good and not least necessary job. Perhaps the most eye-catching thing in this case is that the two previous Ministers of Justice have not seen themselves earned or have at least chosen not to address this matter, which is so important in principle in terms of data protection limitations. In this way, I think it is good and good to hear that the two representatives of the Committee who have been involved have been very clear on that very point. Luckily, I record that the Minister of Justice, too, now clearly sees the shortcomings that others have pointed out, are things you have to do with. For my part, I want to challenge the Minister of Justice in two situations that I hope she will take with me in the further work on INFOFLYT. That INFO FLYT has come to stay and is necessary and good in certain contexts, there is no doubt about it. But nevertheless, as the representative Christensen said in the past, there are also criminal claims for privacy. What is important to me is to challenge the Minister of Justice to ensure full respect for the EMK and the privacy that is being clarified. Everything else will somehow go beyond what we want to achieve, cleanness and a structure on the one that is defendable from all sides – not just from the state against the criminals, but it is also that even criminals in Norway have rights. In addition, there is another delimitation that I think is important to point out, and it is: What about information that is provided through the INFOFLYT system relating to third parties? Here I also hope that the Minister of Justice will bring with him a concern and ensure that it is also defined. I would like to believe that visitors or others who are involved in the 50–190 people to whom it has been referred have a wish that what you are talking about does not automatically come to the attention of others. So a limit to third parties, I think, is very important, and I also hope that the Council of State will take it with it. Then it's one moment that you haven't been in. Although the basis of the law is now being discussed, it may simply be that if a case is brought before a court, the court can conclude that the basis of the law is not good enough and refuses access to the use of information obtained. At least it will be clear that the legislator and the department have not done a good enough job. Although Stortinget in most cases is doing a job that keeps legal, it is also true that Stortinget has received some clear feedback, not least from the Supreme Court, on some legal issues. I mention e.g. The law of Santa Claus, in which a majority of the Stortinges committed themselves, I think, quite clearly raised the eyebrow from the Supreme Court, because it was thought that one had done one too bad job in this hall. It must be a goal for all of us to make sure that there are as few things as possible. That is why I think it is good that the Council of State now refers from the sample that has been reduced, which clearly points out is missing, and that she now intends to do something about it. It's with respect to report in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e531	This report covers many companies. Nine extended checks have been carried out. There is some criticism of some departments. None of the state councils involved are present in the Chamber, so I hope that there is good publicity in bureaucracy and in political management, because it is important that what is of criticism is followed up. If I'm going to give a general opinion about the findings, they give the impression that there's still a lot to think about that the control of the companies under various departments is professional and consistent and long-term enough. That's a varying degree of control. The national audit divides its criticism into a weak follow-up to sectoral policy objectives, that ownership is not sufficiently adapted to the characteristics of the companies, and that there is a weak return in several companies which nevertheless have commercial objectives. There are partly parallel criticisms here. I can take as an example the criticism of the NSB that they have created – and are constantly establishing – Netbus routes, which nevertheless do not affect the proportion of public transport and at the top of it all also do not meet NSB’s profitability requirements. Then why do you do that? There is reason to ask questions to the Minister for Transport. However, the Governing Board's approval is evident and there is no consistency between the objectives set by the Storting and the objectives pursued by the Company. There is also a criticism of the lack of profitability associated with Mesta. After several years the company has now changed, and now it is time for the company to show profitability. It has been said by the Council of State in the hearing that he will follow up. It is a formulation that is constantly repeated in Stortinget, without us always being able to record that it is being followed up the following year. But in relation to Mesta, there is an overall committee that expresses considerable impatience. In the case of State Power, it has also been expressed — and at the same time it was included in the consultation — that State Power has an objective of benefiting the company's significant revenues, i.e. being channelled through the State budget, and that it should be a significant machine of money. It has been criticised that Statkraft has invested in new activities in other countries and in forms of production other than hydropower. It is well and good if it had given a dividend that was in proportion to the dividends otherwise in the company. It does not, and it is also a criticism from the National Audit Office supported by the Committee. There's at all an overall committee position that's handed over, just with a little one's, which I'm going to come back to. In one area, however, I would like to dwell on the Committee's unanimous remarks: The Committee says that the Council of State opinion is that Statoil takes its social responsibility seriously, and that the Council of State – in the hearing – felt that the company in this area is among the leading actors in its industry. At the hearing, the Council of State said: «A voluntary international standard is reported. This standard does not require reporting on all indicators [[...]] In addition, the Council of State said: ‘Our assessment is that Statoil performs well on its social responsibility [[...]] The Committee delivered its opinion on this exchange of views at the hearing by saying that: ‘The Committee cannot see that there is consistency between the ambitions of ownership notification and the attitude of the Council of State.’ It's a relatively undisguised criticism. If the Council of State feels affected, or if Statoil is affected, I will leave it uncommented in that context. But at least it is politically a criticism that is directed against the Council of State. It's one of those, and it's a theme that's not included in the National Audit Office's report, because it happened afterwards, and it's quite natural. This was the conflict between the Minister of Industry and Telenor, who in turn led to the resignation of the Chairman of the Board in Telenor. It was Telenor's ownership of the A-press and therefore indirectly their influence on the possibility that TV 2 was sold to a Danish company. In other words, the right of pre-emption – which had been there for many years – was used. This was an intervention by the Council of State, as the majority of the committee – representing the minority in the Storting, i.e. the opposition parties – says the following about: They say that it is important that governance takes place in a long-term and predictable way and does not take place on deposits from the owner. A Joint Committee states that Telenor shall be governed by principles clearly defined in the notification of ownership, on a commercial basis, and that its head office and central research and development activities remain in Norway. The Committee says: ‘The Committee stresses that the Ministry’s ownership must be exercised within these limits.’ So far a unanimous attitude. It is my opinion that the intervention of the Council of State in this specific case occurred without coverage in the ownership notification. It has never been stated that a telecommunications company in Norway, through its ownership of another company, must indirectly ensure that the right of pre-emption entered into its agreements does not apply and that the company must ensure that cultural institutions – in this case a television channel – remain in Norwegian ownership. This was not – as far as I recall – an important topic when the ownership message was discussed in Stortinget – not just that, it was not a topic at all. But the Council of State has taken it for granted that Stortinget believes what he himself believes in this matter. I have thus left behind the criticism, which the majority of the committee also mentions in its position, that communication between the company's board of directors and the state council should be done in perhaps other ways than by SMS messages and telephone calls, after decisions have been taken in the company, and after the decisions were taken in reality. It leaves me, since the Council of State has taken some sort of self-criticism in this regard, that the forms of communication can be better, more predictable and more long-term. It's worth following up. I repeat: the Ownership Notice does not provide that Telenor has specific tasks in Norwegian television or other cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e579	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough work. Just a few comments on some themes from my page. – In Document 3:2 the National Audit Board has reviewed the country’s ownership policy and initially states that ownership is to be exercised within the limits resulting from the division of responsibilities between the board and the owners of the companies. The National Audit Office stresses that, within these frameworks, active ownership is a key prerequisite for government ownership policy. As the rapporteur said, the Court of Auditors’ audit has included nine extended audits. Part of the National Audit Office’s document is to have an active ownership policy within the framework adopted by the Stortinget. I would like to point out that, in the hearing of the Committee, the Trond Giske State Council stressed that, within the framework of the distribution between the company and the owner, there is both room and practice for broad contact. I would like to stress the importance of active use by the State that owns the necessary instruments for ownership management, follow-up and control. I would also like to refer to what the Council of State said in the hearing about being an active dialogue partner. Another issue — which concerns another Council of State — concerns issues related to, among others: the petroleum sector. It may be said that caution should be exercised, with a view to setting a fixed long-term dividend management, measured in cents per share, in the type of industry such as. Statoil's operating inside. There are many other important indicators, including: because the oil price varies. Perhaps an international company in the energy sector — or other demanding sectors at international level — should be managed differently. Maybe we need other ways to make sure that companies like Statoil are doing well and doing the job in a good and proper way. I can also address another site that is particularly relevant to companies, such as Statoil and other large Norwegian groups operating abroad. The National Audit Office has put the search light on the social responsibility of the companies. The size covered in the previous period is a growing message of social responsibility and ethical driving rules for establishments abroad. For me, it is important that when e.g. Statoil enters countries such as Iran and Nigeria — there are other more nearby examples, for example: Azerbaijan – the company must address human rights violations or corruption. I am pleased that the Council of State, Ola Borten Moe, underlined in the Committee's consultation that the strategies adopted are well anchored in the political environment. At the same time, the Committee shares the Riksrevision's view that Statoil does not report fully in several key areas of social responsibility. The Committee considers it appropriate to clarify that this is serious. Let me add that the Stortinget has argued that social responsibility is about what companies do on a voluntary basis – in addition to complying with laws and regulations and insofar as international standards are also involved. Here some countries will be more difficult than others. We should perhaps occasionally, even on a political basis, ask ourselves whether there are countries in which our large groups should not be established, and if they do, what kind of conditions they should in that case have to violate human rights and other similar gross abuses that we see in some countries. Iran is a very good example. Let me also point out that there are four to five countries outside the OECD where Statoil has not developed social responsibility plans. It is important that the Ministry of Oil and Energy follows this closely. This is a document that deals with several themes, and then it can easily get a bit jumpy. However, the document also mentions the growth of wages in health businesses. I also stress this from the Parliamentary Chair because the Minister for Health is in the Chamber. The Committee is alarming that for the period 2003-2010, the increase in the remuneration of health business managers was stronger than for employees in general. For my part, I would say that it is actually unacceptable. So it's not just alarming, it's unacceptable. We've had this up before. We have dealt with it in the past, and I would like to refer to the previous debates that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has had in this Chamber, including consultation on the remuneration of directors in public companies and companies partly owned by the State. We did say that at the time, but it almost looks as if governments for public companies – or, for that matter, corporations – see wage increases for leaders as something that happens within their own sphere, completely independent of the wage developments of the rest of society. When we are in the middle of various wage settlements, it may be good to remember that leadership wages are also something that needs to be considered in relation to wage developments in general in society. It must not be perceived as happening within a small group of people who believe that this has nothing to do with the rest of society. Finally, on a number of points, the Committee agrees with the comments. I would like to refer to the rapporteur's statement on the Telenor/TV 2 case. It is right, as the representative Foss said, that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party believe – that is not just what we believe, it is a fact – that this is a matter that Document 3:2 does not mention or deal with. Otherwise, the matter was well explained at the hearing on 9 March, where it was taken up by the opposition and answered by the Council of State Trond Giske. Elsewhere, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have their own comment on the Third Postal Directive. It has to be taken into account, so that we can steer postal policy independently of future EU directives. Nor do the Labour Party and the other parties in the Committee – i.e. the majority of the Committee – consider this to be part of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e607	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a very good piece of work, and I will join him fully and completely to his posts. However, when I take the floor, it is to talk a little bit more about what the representative Nybakk told me that the government parties do not think this matter is about, namely Telenor's sale of TV 2. Since this happened in 2012, it is true that the case is not mentioned by the National Audit Office’s 2010 report on the company control. However, I am sure that the Riksrevision will come back to this matter when they will deliver company control for 2011. But it also shows some sort of weakness in this form of control, because there is so much distance between the controlled year and our treatment in the Stortinget. When I still think it is necessary to say some words about this, it is because it was expected from some teams that we should do much more of the matter in this treatment than we have done. That is why I think it is good to remember that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade was in Stortingen and made a specific statement on this matter, and the majority of the House did not want the matter to be dealt with further in any committee. That is what we have been dealing with. There are, however, a few factors that have to be pointed out, which are of a slightly more general nature and which have also become applicable in this case. Firstly, communication – or ownership management – is quite untraditional in form. SMSes are sent that are obviously case-relevant. They have to be recorded. The requirement for record-keeping is that the records should be kept continuously, so they should be kept up-to-date. That's kind of the point. In this case, it took 10 days for the text message to be sent and for record keeping, which is in conflict with the legislation. So this might look like a trifle. But it probably represents a major challenge, because there is a lot of evidence that these text messages were never meant to be recorded. There is an overall opposition that is quite crammed in its criticism of the Council of State's handling of this matter. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to say that it is necessary – including for the National Audit Office when carrying out these types of checks and other types of checks – to examine whether the Ministry has an actual system of record-keeping of all case-relevant documentation, including SMSes. We have also seen other issues in which the Control and Constitutional Committee has been involved, that the reporting of SMSes is quite deficient – even though they are highly case-related, as in this context. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that it is a prerequisite for the state to act neatly and in the long term in its communication with companies. In my opinion, this has not been done in a reassuring way in this case, nor is it a good signal from the state that it owns to use its power of ownership in retrospect to expel directors who do not respond to the requests made by the state councils by SMS. The State must be a professional owner, not a political owner, where the contributions of a Council of State are to be decisive for the future of a Chairperson. This was a kind of heart attack, and in order to spare the government parties for the great despair, I will at the same time recognize that it is at best in the border country for what this matter actually holds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e622	We're not going to get rid of heart sugar, so it was interesting that it came. For SV's part, we are very pleased that state councils are operating with active ownership, and we really want more of it – we really want too much of it when it comes to something of it, at least when it comes to oil sand projects and things like that. But that's it. Active state councils relative to active ownership, we want them from the SV page. So we're very few in what Nybakk takes up, kneading up for rent in health care companies. The peasants protest because they don't get what they're supposed to have – naturally – and it's already strikes. So it's a group that's kind of out of the system, and it can just increase its pay almost as much as it suits them. We have to tighten this up, and I believe that the Council of State has started on, but it's at least important to us that we are clear on that from the Parliament's Chair. And I also very much agree with the problem that Nybakk is expressing in relation to our company's foreign business. In my eight years in the Energy and Environment Committee and on trips in Nigeria, Azerbaijan, Mexico, Cuba – almost anywhere – I have seen that many countries are very difficult to drive in, and it is hard to keep their path clean. This is why it is particularly important to follow-up companies and to ensure that they take on their social responsibility, not least by helping different workers to form trade unions – which have been important for Norwegian prosperity, namely that we have strong trade unions that have in a way been with and developed the welfare state. Then Nybakk was also in a comment from the Center Party and SV. At least it's surprising that a person doesn't want to comment on this when you're busy with the Post's profitability – that's what you're rewriting in the plural comment, that the Post is important, and that you need to increase your pay, etc. In fact, it is a directive that reduces wages, and one should not be involved in pointing out the problematic relationship that one has with ESA and the EFTA Court, because one has now received a judgment that causes the Post to lose income, i.e. to be less profitable, a judgment that currently costs more than 80 million. kr, which could enter a surplus. Furthermore, it is the case that Schenker has notified a case because of this relationship with the Post Office, and that there may again be a legal case in which we as owners have to pay large sums to a private/public company, because one has not complied with the EEA Agreement. That's why we think it's a good idea to problematize this in this setting, i.e. what concerns the Post Office's operations and the Post Office's profitability. We note that those who are in favour of the EEA Agreement do not want to problematize this problematic case we now have when it concerns the Post. That is why we also say in the end that it is important that we now use the majority that is at Stortinget with regard to the third postal directive, and try to secure us there and get an agreement that enables us to exercise our right of self-determination in Norway, and make sure that our people get the best postal service they need, regardless of whether we have an EEA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e637	The case concerns the control of the National Audit Office over the management of state companies for 2010. In the case of State power, it is pointed out that international activities and activities in technologies other than the core activity of State power, namely hydropower, and the large volume of investment involved, should be highlighted more closely. For several years, there has been a need to follow up on returns more clearly, and it is very clear to the responsible State Council that it is worrying that, for example, State power chooses the kind of information that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade should have in such cases. Another aspect that has not been addressed is Mesta, and the Committee says that they need to strengthen competitiveness. It is a very demanding statement from the Committee, when we know what huge competition there is about skilled people in the construction industry, and we also know that when it comes to accessing operating resources – I think of gravel and pucks – it is absolutely crucial for the profitability of the construction industry. It is a development of what is disturbing given that there will be more and more monopoly. Those who do not have access to gravel and pokes in the vicinity of their facilities then have a significant disadvantage and thus get worse out, and Mesta is among them. As regards Statnet, the Committee points out that there has been an increased number of hours when capacity utilisation has been so high that there has been no spare line to cover in the event of lines falling out. We are pleased with what is happening in the Ministry of Oil and Energy at that point in order to strengthen operational safety, and we say that we want to get feedback on the follow-up to this and clarify the situation by 2012. As many people have experienced — within the Ministry of Transport — the Post Office’s demands are high profitability, which was an important prerequisite for the expansion of the Posten Group in the period 2004–08. The new postal and logistics activities have not given a satisfactory return, and the Posten’s IT investments and investments in Bring Citymail have so far caused the group significant – I stress significant – losses. A unanimous comitology comment indicates that the Ministry of Transport has taken action to strengthen the follow-up to the Posten Group. The Committee asks the Ministry to clarify the importance that activities outside of Norway or outside the core activities of the Post reinforce their core activities through profits or synergies. What is a common denominator is the active state ownership, which both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have previously been involved in. We're strong followers of it. What's central is, what's the active ownership? The representative of Marit Nybakk was involved in the development of wages. It's a little sad that we have to take this up repeatedly from the Parliament's pulpit and point out that the wage developments in some state companies, as the representative Nybakk said, have a major impact on the formation of wages. It should be unnecessary for us to say it so strongly from here that the management of these state companies – the political leadership we are even more clearly on – shows restraint. It has to be so that it's the leaders who first sacrifice something, and the leaders go ahead as a good example. The second of active ownership is clearly that the objectives of active ownership need to be clarified. The reviewer of the Riksrevision and the Committee is that both foreign activity and activity outside the core areas are found to have a result for synergies and returns that are not consistent with public policy statements. So there are areas that need to be discussed further, where the government must have a special vigilance. Finally, on the Post and Postal Directives: As the representative of Langeland was involved, the reason for this is that the Senterpartiet and SV address this, that the judgment that has come gives a fine of more than 11 million. euro. It states that it will reduce dividends in the Post Norway. Yeah, that's for sure. But another way of saying it is that it increases the need for state contributions to the group so that it can fulfil its overall tasks. The reason for this situation is the first two postal directives. We believe that it was right in this context to point out that when we are now faced with the question of the third postal directive, we need a vigilance and a firmness that makes us come into a different position, which is precisely described in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e663	The size must be able to expect the Council of State to comply with the principles that the Council of State itself has presented to the Storting as principles of sound ownership. In the credit report up to this period, Report. St. 13 for the 2010–2011 session, a government ownership policy has been established with a broad focus in this room. There are, as is well known, many different reasons for the involvement of the State in corporate operations, but one important delimitation has been made in this announcement of ownership, and in the case of the companies in which the State participates with other private investors in internationally listed companies with a commercial objective, and where these companies are actually valued every exchange day. On page 21 of the Communication, a wide-ranging international study shows that investors are willing to pay so-called premium if they have confidence that State-participating companies comply with established principles of sound ownership. Similarly, it is described that the stock exchanges in societies, especially in the former Eastern bloc, which are not fully consolidated democratically, are given a lower corporate rating than the underlying values, precisely because the international investor market has a nagging feeling that there is not everything on the table and that it is given, for example. instructions on the rear of the country’s leading politicians. In the same message presented here in the State Council, a table is included that suggests that in some of these countries the values of the stock exchange may be depressed, or pressed down, by up to 26 pst. It goes without saying that a society misses enormous values by not having a very clear ownership policy on the part of the state, and makes it clear that it respects the international standards of good stock exchange operations. In other words, in societies where one believes that state participation in the companies is determined in the back, after personal political intrusions or insertions, one loses value because there is an international lack of confidence that the rules really are being followed. One of the most central is equal treatment for all shareholder groups, whether foreign or domestic, whether the other owners are private or public. The state owns 53.97 p.m. of Telenor, and the value of this holding is approximately 80 B.C.E. kr. That is, you've picked up 70 billion. kr from private investors from all over the world who have confidence in following the decisions of companies – transparently. A simple percentage estimate suggests that if there is a perception that it may be associated with a political risk, in the sense that the state, for example, is Presses, lures the board to take special decisions in the management of the company, or through ordinary ownership by the state promotes external interests on the side of or contrary to the business interests of the company, thus a simple headcount could suggest that if the market for our case depresses Telenor by 1 pst, the Norwegian society misses by 800 million. kr. I don't think this active cultural policy of one of our government councils is worth the price. The ownership notice also states that, in addition to non-discrimination of shareholders, the Financial Governance Regulation of the State, as set out in Section 10, provides that undertakings which have overall responsibility for independent legal entities shall draw up written guidelines on how to exercise the management and control authority in relation to each company. The Riksrevision is to be sent to the Court of Auditors, and it is likely as an effect of the fact that the case is present here – as an investigation by the Riksrevision. Within the framework of applicable laws and regulations, the State shall manage its interests in accordance with the principle of sound ownership, with particular emphasis on ensuring equal treatment of all owners and supporting a clear distribution of powers between the owner and the board. Elsewhere it is stated that, in addition to the principle of non-discrimination, there shall be transparency relating to the ownership of companies by the State. Ownership decisions and decisions shall be taken at the general meeting. That's all there is to it. The framework for ownership management is not an obstacle – of course – to the possibility for the State, like other shareholders, to deal with issues that companies should consider on a free basis in relation to their activities and developments. The views expressed by the State in such meetings are to be seen as input to the company’s administration and administration — and are not instructions. The Board of Directors is responsible for managing the company for all shareholders, including those shareholders who do not have representation on the Board of Directors, and they must make the concrete balances and decisions under their board of directors. Matters requiring the agreement of the owners must be addressed, e.g.: in owner’s meetings as a preparation and finally formally approved by the general meeting. The country in which the shareholder is initially provided with no more information than is publicly available to other shareholders. And for further study, if the Council of State should be interested in this, I can refer to the OECD guidelines of 2010, called Accountability and Transparency, for further deepening this. But this must at least be known in the department, because it is the same consideration that has produced the ownership message. It must then be quite clear that informal contact giving – by telephone or through social media, SMS or whatever it may be – in order to push forward a different result in individual matters from what the board itself would have come to, cannot be in accordance with the principles of good ownership I have so far been involved in here. Yes, it is more than that, it is directly in conflict with the ownership policy of listed companies. I would also like to take the opportunity here from Stortinget's pulpit to commend the former director Harald Norvik for his integrity to avoid being pushed out of the formal role that he has under the share law and into the distribution of powers. I would say it is also a pity if he should have personally been exposed to discomfort in retrospect. My personal opinion is that we can see that the Minister of Industry has had an office which is on a collision course with the government's own pronounced ownership policy. It's critical. If the government had not controlled the bulk of the population, the government would probably have had to expand its unquestionably many talents elsewhere than in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e693	As the rapporteur on the matter, I have just a few comments at the end. In line with the previous submissions, it is essential that communication between companies and the State Council is at all events open to the public and that this makes compliance with the rules on case-related record-keeping all the more important in such cases. I see that it can be difficult when the communication gets a little – call it – new forms, text messages and phone calls. But the law is clear on this point: case-relevant information communicated in this way shall be publicly available without unnecessary termination, i.e. without the use of unnecessary time, i.e. as far as possible the same day or the day thereafter. It did not happen in this case, and it is not the first time we point out that there has been a failure in the administration. Only a small assessment of what is relevant to include in a position — it is a big internal matter — but I just want to say that the control committee has a special form of work; that we use consultations as an important part of our proceedings. It would then be wrong for Stortinget if we did not also include in the vote matters that have been raised during the hearing, although it is not mentioned in the document from the Riksrevisionen, because Stortinget is entitled to gain insight into our proceedings in the committee as well. Therefore, I believe that the mention of an incident from 2012, which was raised during the hearing, belongs to the suspension, even though the report from the Riksrevision is formally limited to 2010. The fact that we also get insight into a disagreement in the government about the relationship with the Postal and Postal Directives is only interesting, and that is also true. It is useful that the Stortinge is also informed about the confusion that prevails in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e706	I really didn't intend to take the floor, because the Riksrevision's proposal is largely in line with the department's own view. There is agreement between the National Audit Office and us that the Ministry should have ‘a stronger search light on the international activities and activities of State Power in other technologies’, as the National Audit Office describes. For Mesta and Secoras, the State, as its owner, has implemented several concrete actions and used the tools that the Stortinget has decided to have – changes to the board, concrete assessments of capitalisation measures, clarity of dialogue and close follow-up. I also find that most of these days are taking action to increase profitability, so here too there is consensus. So with regard to these matters that the Control Committee has been dealing with, I feel that, for the Ministry of Industry, we are well in line with both the Control Committee and the National Audit Office, and that should be the case. The reason why I now took the floor was the speeches by the representative Tetzschner, who was interesting, but which I cannot find reflected in the position – neither by majority nor minority – but of course there is full opportunity to record anything from his talents on the Spokesman's speech. I just have to say one thing: not a single place in the handling of the Telenor/TV 2 case has the government or the ministry broken the government's governance policy. Nor is it said in the setting, it is not said in the minority position, nor is it said by the Riksrevision – we will now see that when it comes in 2013. It's a full opportunity for the state that owns to deal with different issues with the companies we own, while at the same time ensuring the role-sharing between the government and the owner. This is not cultural policy – although in this case it was a media institution – in the same way that there is no aluminium policy whether Hydro sells or not sells his work in Sunndal or Årdal. It is also not a purely oil policy to sell holdings in Ekofisk. It's national business policy! The overall introductions of the ownership message are as follows: ‘The government will therefore contribute through state ownership to the maintenance and further development of Norwegian enterprises, technology and businesses in Norway.’ This is not the case since TV 2 is active in the media — and in addition, more employees than Hydro Sunndal, Årdal and Karmøy together — are therefore outside the definition of enterprises operating in Norway. It's part of this. This does not mean that the board cannot sell – under these two different companies it says that one can sell both one’s own business and subsidiaries – but that it is an overall objective of the red-green government’s state ownership policy to contribute to Norwegian ownership of Norwegian companies. It is unequivocally stated in the ownership message, and we will stand firm on that in future cases as well. I have sometimes recorded that the bourgeois opposition, especially the Right, argues for changes in the property tax because it is important with national, private ownership. It is interesting if national private ownership is important, but not interesting with national state ownership — then it doesn’t matter whether a large enterprise is in Norway or abroad. With regard to the form of communication you use, which is what is left in the attitude of the control committee, I can say that I am going to use the forms of communication that are appropriate, written and oral. Phone think I've been used for decades in the contact between department and company – by different governments and by different government councils. Of course, when it comes to journaling, we have to pay attention to it, but often these phone calls are recorded in a log, and then it is the log that is recorded after each record. So this is done in different ways. But let's just make it clear: the government's guidelines for ownership management have been followed up to the point and point in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e726	The last claim can only be omitted if you control the majority in this room, which defines such statements. We have noted that there are several opinions on this matter, including: former director Harald Norvik has a completely different opinion. Nor can I see that the ownership message contains other appropriate forms of communication. It is referred to that you can have meetings, and the advantage of meetings is that they take place physically. It is possible to trace who has attended the meetings, which topics have been dealt with, and it is usually also recorded according to good order and custom. So there's a transparency that allows people to ask questions and maybe raise the question with other shareholders. Because there's also a point here that the state – although it owns 53.97 pst. by the company – not only can it build up and almost have a direct access to the board, because it also has an obligation to provide information to media investors and their representatives. This is, of course – and a fundamental principle in all company law – that I am being very downgraded if this very critical attempt at informal instruction to the board is now almost also to be highlighted as a good ownership management, and that is really the way to do it. If this becomes known in the international financial market, I think a lot of people will get involved in investing in companies, where the Minister of Industry is a so-called active party. So here are some limitations both in terms of contact with the company and what this contact can consist of in terms of content. It is outside any State Council concerned with industrial policy to give direct instructions to the Governing Board on what they should take decisions in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e738	It is well done – in a sentence consisting of two words – to get two mistakes. When the representative Tetzschner says it's informal instruction, both words are wrong! Firstly, it is not an instruction that the State gives its opinion to the companies. This is stated in the ownership message. We have the same right as other owners to express our views on different issues that companies are dealing with. It can't be because we own 54 pst. by a company, we're going to have less opportunity to express that view than if we owned 1.5 pst. in the company. Very many of these funds, which are owners of state companies, are at least as active towards the companies. This does not mean that there is an instruction, because instruction is quite different – then we had to take it up in the general meeting and make a decision – but it is to make our view known. So the board – from our point of view and from the perspective of other shareholders, the whole of the company, the commercial assessments – decides what the company should do in the individual case. But that national anchoring of Norwegian major companies is a general objective of state ownership policy, I thought it was almost so broadly anchored that I find it interesting that the Right so clearly indicates that there is no objective of state ownership. I think we can get an interesting dimension here, including in the political debate until September 2013. So to the second point-- that's informal. No, it's not informal. Our views are reflected in meetings with the management of the company, documented in writing in the minutes of these meetings. With regard to the various forms of communication, I can only repeat that e-mail and SMS will continue to be used. Where the representative had social media from, I'm a little uncertain about. But in general, however, written forms of communication, no matter what technological platform you use, will actually be better than verbal because they are clearly referred to in their writing. So we're going to consider what's conventional and unconventional, we're going to use what's appropriate. But the fact that this has been done informally is simply a direct mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e749	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e763	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e772	The issue we are going to debate now concerns everyone. Besides health, education and work, housing is the most important thing in people's lives and the most important thing for their well-being. Historically, Norwegian housing policy has worked well. Most people live in well-standard dwellings, in stable, good living environments. Eight out of ten owner-occupied dwellings. However – and it is a big but – housing prices have increased strongly, Norwegian households have record high debt, and it has become more difficult for initial start-ups. In recent years, several things have happened: the international financial crisis has led to a slowdown in construction activity. In the second quarter of 2009, a bottom record was set for the start-up of new dwellings. Interest rates are low, and most Nordics have a good economy, while population growth has been record high. The distance between the supply of housing and the demand for housing has pushed up housing prices. It was built significantly more in 2011 than in 2009, but still not enough. The working party is concerned about this development, and there is only one answer: several dwellings need to be built, especially in the press areas. All other solutions will only sort the queue and remedy it in the short term, but the only long-term structural solution is to speed up housing. It's a political challenge. The market doesn't sort out alone. The challenge is formidable. The forecasting centre has calculated the annual housing demand of approx. 38 000 dwellings per year. In 2011, it was built 28 000, which is 10,000 fewer than necessary. It is essential that the municipalities take responsibility. Many municipalities do, but not all. Municipal efforts for good and increased housing are about setting aside sufficient land, planning infrastructure and housing in the context, fast planning processes and good dialogue with developers. It is necessary to remember the parties behind the proposals we are going to vote on today – the Progress Party, the Right and the Left – that they run many of the municipalities where it is most difficult for young people to establish and where little is done to solve the problems. A municipality like Bærum could do a lot more. When the Fornebu area was regulated, both the State and Oslo municipalities – both of which had strong interests in the area – wanted to regulate several dwellings. The bear's answer was no. The labour force group recently set up a housing committee which provided 35 measures to increase housing and make it easier for young people to establish themselves. The core of our proposals is a clearer position of political responsibility. It is both a state responsibility and a municipal responsibility. We believe it is necessary to set targets for the number of dwellings to be built, based on population development projections. We also want an offensive investment in rental properties, faster planning processes and a strengthening of the House Bank. I am not able to comment on all the proposals that the opposition is making today, but I think it is particularly sad to register that the Left wants to put down the House Bank. It would, in our view, be a step in the wrong direction. The house bank is our main tool in housing policy. A closure would be dramatic and hit young and disadvantaged especially hard. We also find it sad that the Progress Party is attacking requirements for wheelchair adaptation. There is no evidence that housing prices are driven materially by the construction costs. There is a distance between supply and demand that drives prices up, not wheelchair adjustment. But more importantly, it is short-term and expensive not to build homes in which people with disabilities can live, when we know that the population is getting older and most people want to live at home as far as possible. As far as BSU is concerned, I would like to stress that this is a budgetary question. The scheme was extended as late as 2009. The Minister of Finance has made it clear that any further enlargement will have to take place during the budgetary procedure. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Municipal Committee for their good cooperation on today's proposals. The Labour Party will not vote in favour of the proposals presented today. We disagree with many of them, and the others we think it is most appropriate to have an overall assessment of the housing report that the government has notified. However, I am very pleased that we have had a broad debate on housing policy. For the Workers' Party, it must be about solving the basic structural problem – that it is not being built enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e798	We've had a historically strong growth in housing prices in Norway over the last 20 years. For most people it doesn't matter whether housing prices go up or down. Whether a cage in a dwelling and intended to be built in that dwelling or in the same class of accommodation, it is less important whether housing prices go up or down. In fact, if housing prices go up, you may feel a lot richer than if they go down, but initially it has little meaning. Nevertheless, there are winners in a market where housing prices are rising, as they have done in Norway. There are more dwellings than there are in them, which are winners. Of course, they are also the winners who want to reduce the size of the building. They want to pay for the price of housing. And then there's a loser, and that's who we're busy with. They are the ones who want to establish themselves upwards – they have a place to stay today and want to buy a larger apartment. They're losers in such a market we've seen. Those who are the biggest losers are, of course, those who have not entered the housing market, and who see that entering the housing market is becoming increasingly difficult because housing prices are rising very sharply. Most of them are young people in the establishment phase. There are first-time starters in the housing market, and they were the ones we had in mind when we put forward this proposal for a representative. The reasons why housing prices have increased as much as they have in the last 20 years are many. It's going well in Norway. The government is often trying to pretend it's because of the government, that it's the government that has the era for doing well in Norway. That's not what we're talking about. We also mean that there is a problem in the government and not because the government is doing well in Norway. But we think that it is primarily the oil price that has made Norway a strong economy. A few years ago, we were satisfied with an oil price of between $15 and $20. Now the oil price is almost $100 higher. This means that we have a very strong activity in the oil-powered part of the Norwegian economy. Of course, the country has become far richer than there was reason to believe a few years ago, both in terms of tax revenue and in terms of profits from oil activity. Of course, it has also helped us to ensure that housing prices go a different way in Norway than in many other countries. In Europe, things are going bad, and this has led to low interest rates in Norway. We also have a labour immigration that is pushing prices even more. Håkon Haugli believes that the market is not orderly. We believe that if the market had regulated itself, that one had not intervened so much in the form of detailed regulation from the Planning and Building Act, that local politicians could facilitate housing construction and regulation, the situation would have been quite different. Another thing is that the government comes up with detailed regulations that make housing more expensive to build. This might be especially true of small universally designed dwellings and wheelchair fitment. This means that the smallest dwellings are no longer built. These regulations will result in fewer buildings being built than would otherwise be. Sharpening capital requirements also causes many problems in financing. We think it is important to have these issues debated. We also have eight concrete proposals that we think are sensible and good proposals to make it easier for young people to establish themselves in the housing market. We have also looked at the proposals that the Left has put forward. Proposal No. 9 from the left is a proposal that we think is good and that we want to support. The other proposals from the Left are more doubtful, and we cannot go in for them in this round. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that the Progress Party has, either alone or in combination with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e824	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e827	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good presentation, reflection and wise conclusions. Yes, there is an increasing imbalance — a form of ‘mismatch’ — between the need and demand for both rental and ownership. There's too many of us with needs that don't have the economy to make it a demand. In addition, there is a ‘mismatch’ between demand and supply. Like the rapporteur, no one has any clear responsibility to meet the demand expressed in society, in the market, today. We are not exactly in a situation where providers, municipalities, builders etc. Demands are being met on an offensive basis. For all of us who believe that everyone should have the right to some kind of ‘home’, a dwelling, this is very unfortunate. The political majority on the right chose to deregulate the provision of housing in due time to transfer the main responsibility to the market. It works very well for many of us, all the time just so many of us have a rough private economy, combined with noise tax rules. But it works badly, or just not at all, for many others. We don't want it like that in Norway. I choose to believe that all the political parties today agree that there is something here that is not working, we have to look at it. Then I think we also agree that this is complicated, for example. the reason(s). I think some of the debate today will show that. There is also a lot of complexity on the action page. That's why it's so good that we're going to get some big messages, both to clear up our debate and not least to strengthen the political power of action in this important area, which is an important area for each of us, and not least for society as a whole. That is why it is also positive that we are receiving such representative proposals that we have received here today. Not least proposal No. 8 is a very wise suggestion, namely that we need a housing report. The main objection to this proposal package is in many ways what it does not address, that it does not address the main problem, such as: is linked to the fact that dwellings have become too much today as a speculative object. So the governance isn't need and demand, but opportunities to make too much money. I got the impression that Gjermund Hagesetter here had an alternative explanation of the situation, but at least I didn't get it to work for me, so it meets the criticism that I'm coming here with. The second thing I have missed here is that I think the representative proposal is under-responsible to the municipalities. It is a reality – I agree with the case rapporteur here – that they are too passive to build and not least operate rental dwellings in a decent way, and they are too passive to facilitate housing. I could imagine that several municipalities took up the instrument that worked very well at least a few years ago, namely that local authorities – today I think it would be right with intercommunals – could give the municipalities the opportunity to play a more offensive role. I also think it is very important – I think it is a pity that the representative proposal does not catch up – that we should dry up on existing tax policies in this area. We in SV work with a thought that housing no. 2 might be worth 100 pst. the market value. We also certainly believe that we should problemate the interest-rate deduction scheme, and we have registered that, among other things. The centre party has been out with suggestions in this way. We have it up as an important discussion in our programme work. Then it is so easy – in the proposal for a representative – to address the quality requirements we set for housing, which are linked to universal design and which are linked to the discussion we get in connection with the climate communication. It is so easy to attack that we have put in place legislation to take care of important interests in society, such as the environment, soil protection, etc. It'll be a little too simple for me. This is to take focus away from the main reason that things don't work out like they should do in this area. So to Left's suggestion -- there's a lot to comment on there. I'm just going to come up with the one about the House Bank. In my script, it says that what the left here is proposing is a scandal. I might be a little bit careful and rather be a little bit more questioning before we get it presented here later in the debate. I don't understand that the Left dares to take away this important instrument of social housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e853	It happens — even during debates in Stortinget — that there is interesting new information. I refer to the speeches by the previous speaker and what he said about the fact that in the UK, the next roll-out programme and the housing policy measures that lie there are now being prepared, and that one of them should be changing or abolishing people's access to deducting interest – to a certain extent, then. It requires an additional depression if it is such that SV will remove the interest deduction. It could be very interesting for anyone who is currently moving on the housing market, to hear what they can expect if SV had influence in the next government. The debate on housing policy has brought some momentum. There have been many good – and at least well-meaning – suggestions from different teams. I have also had the pleasure of promoting some proposals that intend to increase the production of dwellings, for that is what we need to do to bring prices down to a better level. It's like the state is sitting on the financial instruments, the municipalities are sitting on the land. I think it's very important that we don't now allow ourselves to be invited into mutual responsibility powdering between the two levels of government, but that we here in this room see carefully what we can do to coordinate the state's special interests, which often express themselves against spatial planning in favour of housing. At the same time, the state, through general economic policy and fiscal policy, sets very important parameters and framework conditions for all those who consider entering the housing market. Then it is also essential that there is a certain predictability. The sudden decision of the financial supervision to tighten the equity requirement from 10 p.m. up to 15 pst, or up to 50 pst. from the purchaser's point of view, we thought it was poorly prepared, it came too quickly. We can understand that the background is concern about the indebtedness, and we don't want people to take on more debt than they can bear, but the important thing is that banks and borrowers are aware of what you do when you make a loan agreement. Banks must never forget their actual craftsmanship, namely to assess the individual loan application and the individual loan applicant’s ability to pay. With regard to the newly established, it is that the Financial Supervisory Authority has hit them through this rapid increase, for the others entering the housing market, with sales proceeds from a former dwelling, would be able to easily meet the equity requirement. With regard to the individual proposals, I would like to address the proposals promoted by the Right, which have been endorsed by the Progress Party. The suggestions have been inserted in the setting. With regard to the Left's proposal, we will be able to support proposal No. 9, which envisages extending the Youth Housing Saving Scheme with the rates of deduction mentioned. This idea is also fully in line with the proposal we had during the 2013 budgetary procedure. We would also like to point out that the Stortinget will soon receive treatment both on the construction technical side and on the more general housing notice, which has been notified for a while, so that we can finally create a more comprehensive housing policy – and not be referred to to discussing this as much as the Document 8 proposals offer, in that there are only partial aspects to be discussed at all times. The right looks forward to discussing new, exciting thoughts in the housing announcement, also looking at the role of the House Bank. Now we don't think it's going to end, but we want to make it even more focused, so we can do more for those groups that are going to establish themselves for the first time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e872	The proposals have already been taken up by the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e875	Although the Christian People's Party does not follow the Progress Party with regard to the concrete proposals they are making in this matter, I am pleased that the Progress Party is trying to record itself to do something about the situation for the first time starters. The entire municipal committee says that there needs to be a comprehensive policy to facilitate the good supply of new dwellings and that there is today a significant imbalance in the supply and demand of housing, especially in press areas. This is not a good certificate to a government that has been sitting by a majority for nearly seven years. Although a joint municipal committee finds that building housing is not a state responsibility, the same committee states that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure good framework conditions and to facilitate the optimal functioning of the housing market. In 2012, the government announced a roll-out on housing and building policy, respectively. We're looking forward to getting them. Like the government parties, we don't believe relaxation in universal design requirements or fewer restrictions in the beach zone is the way to go to get an improved situation, but we're worried about the initial starters and others struggling to fit into the housing market. I would therefore like to dwell a little on the Financial Supervisory Authority's intensified claim to equity in the case of loans for housing purposes. The Christian People's Party believes that without compensatory measures, these intensified requirements will lead to even greater problems for more young people, immigrants and others with a weak economy in entering the housing market. We believe that the strengthening of the start-up loan scheme from the intensified equity requirement is not sufficient and that more needs to be done to help young people enter the housing market. We assume that the intensified equity requirement is accompanied by an improvement in the scheme Housing savings for young people in order to prevent the initial start-ups from getting the full burden of the restrictions on equity requirements in the case of loans for residential purposes. In isolation, the tightening up of financial supervision may seem more like a measure to strengthen banks rather than facilitate a more efficient housing market. The rule can push young people into the rental market and increase speculation there. The former Labour Party Financial Council in Oslo, Group Manager Rune Bjerke in DnB, in a reading in Today’s Business Life on 8 July 2011 called for a strengthening of the BSU scheme. He pointed out that the housing prices have doubled in ten years without the amount limit in the BSU being adhered to. Mountains indicate that well over half of the young people between the ages of 17 and 34 think they need 300000 kroner in savings to buy a dwelling. For the current financial year, the Christian People's Party proposed to increase the financial limit to NOK 300000 in total savings, by NOK 25 000 in annual savings and an increase in the deduction of 28 pst. This was voted down. It is good to hear Håkon Haugli talk so warmly about the House Bank. He also called for the House Bank to be strengthened. In December, during the budgetary procedure, he was able to vote in favour of the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party to increase the Husbank's loan framework by 5 billion. kr in addition to the proposed government. I see that the Left is promoting a number of proposals today. I just want to inform you that we are going to support the Left's proposal No. 9, which is in line with what we ourselves have proposed in our alternative budget for the current year. There's a slight nuance difference in how much you can save in a year, but we support the Left's proposal. It is according to the intention that the Christian People's Party is also working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e890	There is no doubt that there is a need for a new policy to help young people in the start-up phase enter the housing market. Many initial start-ups experience that the entry threshold of the housing market has become almost insurmountable. Today's housing market reinforces the distinction between young people with rich parents and those without equity. In an article in the Newspaper today, we can read that young people have to spend almost all the money to get into the housing market, and many have to finance new demands for equity through very expensive consumption loans. This is due to a combination of several factors: higher equity requirements for the purchase of housing, lack of rental housing and the absence of public instruments to facilitate the establishment of the housing market for young people. The left considers that positive incentives are the way to go to improve the situation of young people in the housing market and that government-driven price regulation is wrong medicine. The main measure is to build more dwellings. This will require new areas of land in central strata where the pressure is greatest. Such organisation will take time, not least because many cross-cutting considerations need to be addressed in planning. Among these are soil protection, the environment, climate and transport some of the most important. The left considers that the state, municipalities and private developers together need to develop economically robust and long-term development programmes. The left considers that the State must take greater responsibility for increased development and therefore support the proposals No. 1 and 2 in the position of the Party of Advances and the Right, which has just touched on these conditions. So to the ‘scandal’, as the representative of the Socialist Left called it. Yes, the Left believes that the House Bank should be reorganised and that the instruments must be transferred to the municipalities. The left will thus give municipalities responsibility and instruments for a municipal housing policy. This includes, inter alia: to transfer the housing, building and environmental instruments of the House Bank to the municipalities and to merge the bank part of the House Bank with another public bank, such as: Kommunalbanken AS. Furthermore, a Norwegian home purchase model should be introduced, where rented dwellings can be disbursed through rent and be permanently owned. The public must contribute to the construction of several rental dwellings, where a proportion of them become home-purchase dwellings. In addition, more people should have access to the start-up loans of the Husbank, including: by extending the amortisation period from 20 to 30 years and by stating that ‘first-time establishment’ is also an independent category for inclusion in the scheme. Today, this is defined as ‘economically disadvantaged households’, ‘children’s families’, ‘uniform dependants’, ‘disabled persons’, ‘refugees’ and ‘persons residing on a humanitarian basis’. I refer you to the proposal No. 10 to 13, from the left, distributed in the hall. In order to make it easier to save enough equity to buy a dwelling, the BSU needs to be extended. In the view of the Left, the annual savings must be increased from NOK 20000 to NOK 30000. The ceiling on how much you can save needs to be increased to NOK 300,000. Saving for owner-occupied dwellings is, in the view of the Left, only sensible — and it makes sense to use the tax system to stimulate such savings. I note that the government believes that the BSU scheme does not meet all the same and that it should therefore not be extended. It's a strange logic. The government's opinion is also not in line with the general public opinion at this point. In today's Newspaper we can read that eight out of ten, or 80 pst. by all, the BSU scheme appears to be an important scheme. It's an evaluation left-hand share completely. The banks must be conscious of their social responsibility and provide technical advice to meet the needs of borrowers in stages where the private economy is burdened with high housing costs. For many housing buyers, housing financing alone does not constitute the cause of financial failure. With large consumption loans at the top of high housing costs, in many cases the total amount of loans becomes unmanageable. Dropped banks fire during the increase in housing prices. The left expects the banks to jointly ensure that the lending gap is kept under better control. It is the task of the Financial Supervisory Authority to find good instruments that will keep banks from doing so. The big question is about today's 15 p.m. market share claims. is such a good instrument. This may, in some cases, be, but certainly not in all — and especially not in the case of young people at the start-up stage. The Left therefore supports proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, to soften something in the equity requirement of the banks. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e910	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e913	It is gratifying that housing policy has come on the agenda of the public change of words in Norway. The government is busy providing a good housing supply – a good supply of new housing to a growing market. In Norway, we become 1 million more inhabitants in just a few years. Then it's important to have a government that has an overarching policy that that growth should come not only in the already existing press area but throughout the country. Making sure that the whole country is growing, and that we are spreading that growth, will be one contribution to the fact that we do not receive an unmanageable pressure in the biggest cities. The three government parties – Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party – have assumed that there is no government to control the number of dwellings to be built. There is no one — nor the opposition — who has called for us to reintroduce a planned economy. Our task is to ensure good framework conditions and to facilitate the best functioning of the housing market. At the same time, we need to ensure that new dwellings meet quality requirements, so that they are available, energy-efficient and environmentally friendly – and adapt future needs in a population where we know that there are many more older people. Several of the proposals currently under consideration are under the responsibility of other government councils. For the evaluation of the individual proposals, I refer you to the written reply sent to the Committee. It is also important to establish that there is a significant construction of housing in Norway. We had a big drop in the financial crisis. This is about to come up again. In Oslo, there was a triple last year. That's good. Oslo is probably the city that has the biggest challenge – together with many other Right-Handed municipalities. We cannot underestimate the local authorities' responsibility for putting land at the disposal. When I have contact with building builders – I have quite often – companies that run property management and development, there is no doubt that land prices are becoming a large part of the price of housing, and far greater than he was just a short time ago, precisely because there are too few plots available. This must be the responsibility of the local government sector. That's what I'm discussing with the municipalities. New dwellings will often be expensive for those with a weak economy. But building new dwellings for those groups that are more buyers can help to free up more used dwellings for those who are going to establish themselves and buy a dwelling for the first time. Nearly all dwellings are traded in a free market. For a builder, it is more important to look at housing demand rather than population growth when assessing whether to build new dwellings. A builder will always look at profitability. Pressure in the housing market in the form of high population growth will often result in more adaptations than increased construction of housing. As suggested by the proposers, housing prices have increased in recent years. Since 1993, housing prices have been more than quadruple. There are large geographical variations in this prism, with the largest growth around and in large cities. There's a series of ratios that give this growth in price. At the end, it's up to the market to decide the price of a dwelling. If the dwelling is on an attractive site, it can affect the price far more than public requirements and regulations. SSB figures show that housing prices have increased significantly more than construction costs in recent years. But the construction cost index alone does not reflect real cost developments. The index only includes developments in the price of materials, labour, transport and other inputs in the output of residential buildings. There are no statistics on land prices or prices for architects, nor on changes in productivity or service margins in the industry. We need to look at this in more detail. First, when we get these costs in place, we get the total cost picture for a builder. Municipalities have an important role, but they don't want to support the Left's proposal to shut down the House Bank. The house bank is the most important partner for getting more into the housing market. The home bank is not only money, arrangements, loans and credits, but also competence. That competence is strongly requested, and I get praise almost every day from municipalities for the important cooperation that one has with the House Bank. I'm glad the plural doesn't support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e941	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e944	The Council of State said in its speech that it is not the state that is to govern housing policy and housing development. Of course, we're quite certain that a non-detailer should address this. However, the fact is that there are governmental bodies that in many cases prevent new construction, for example: by the fact that the County comes forward with objections to municipal plans and regulatory plans, thus preventing the development that could otherwise be found. We have also been required, for example: universal design, which frame the smallest dwellings in particular. Governments and government have been exempted when it comes to student housing. Then the question is, why should one not go further and exempt from the universal design requirement for all dwellings below 55 m2?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e954	Sintef Construction Research has estimated that the increase in the cost of access to the small apartments will be about NOK 40000. That's not what decides whether the kids get into the housing market. Nor is it the case that young people must always buy a new apartment. Many young people buy older apartments, and I think it might be a way to get into the housing market. Today it is only approx. 10 pst. of the wheelchair users’ housing facilities, so with respect to reporting — it is not possible that young people have problems getting into the housing market. It is important to increase the availability of the housing stock to meet the waves of the elderly and to build many smaller apartments. Then it is important that they are available to everyone, so that we can stay longer in our own homes, and so be – had I almost said – longer master of our own lives. The dwelling is a very important key to it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e961	I record that while the peasants rage, the public servants strike and there is general dissatisfaction with the government, the Council of State Navarsete is largely dissatisfied with the Right and with the municipalities that are run by the Right. The councils pointed out that the press areas were – I was saying – a udder, and that there should be population and population spread throughout the country. Then BSU is an important tool, because you'll get more for the money if you build a house in a pig-grown stripe than in a densely built stripe. I wonder if Navarsete State Council agrees with the Ministry of Finance and State Secretary Roger Schjerva, who says that BSU ‘is the best of all that does not help. It's kind of like curing cold with cognac. Is it true that the department and government have now given up the BSU, that saving for owner-occupied housing is a measure the government is against, because it is those with the greatest income that can save the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e973	First two precision: I'm not in conflict with Right-Handed municipalities. I have very much respect for right-hand-ruled municipalities. Nor have I ever said that the press area is a udder, on the contrary, I work well with spokesmen and town councillors, whether it is here in the city or in other right-hand-ruled municipalities. I should have seen, of course, that they could have a different color, but that's another thing. There is also a lot of good done in Right-Handed municipalities, but that only means that one actually has to see what one can do in the Right-Handed municipalities. It's a bit like a community synopsis: a point that everyone else should do it, but one doesn't do it in the municipalities they control themselves. When it comes to BSU, as Minister of Housing, I think it's an important tool to save on your own housing. I have recorded that there are different views about it, but the government's policy is that BSU is a tool that's there and that's good. I also consider whether we should consider strengthening the scheme, if any, in connection with the housing message I am going to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e980	I want to continue with the BSU system, and I heard what the council said. As I said in my post, there are a lot of people who think it should be strengthened, especially in the light of what happens when you stick to the self-sufficiency requirement of 15 p.m. Can the Council confirm that this framework will increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e985	I am preparing a big message about housing policy, and if not for a long time now, they will receive a big message about building policy. I am very pleased that, on behalf of the government, I can explain a policy in an area that is high on the agenda now. That's good, it completely detonates such an important area. I think maybe the world and having a home, a safe home, is one of the most important bases for living a good life. The BSU scheme – as I said in my previous answer – is important. I consider, together with the government, what will happen to her, in conjunction with other tools. We're going through the use of tools in the housing area now, and it's clear that I can't confirm or cancel anything about it today – it sure understands the representative. I'm sure we'll come back to that. It's important that we have tools that work for all groups. BSU works well for a lot of people, and I think it's important to stimulate that you can also save yourself an asset when you're going to buy a dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e994	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e999	Providing a stable level of housing supply must be an overall political responsibility. The last decades of the 1980s deregulation show that the market alone does not solve societal challenges. While national and local authorities are responsible for other key welfare goods such as work, education, health services, kindergartens and care for the elderly, no one has a clear responsibility for the provision of housing. It's not a satisfactory situation. The Workers' Party believes that it is a central political task to contribute to the construction of adequate housing. Norway currently has one of the least regulated housing markets in Europe. It is a paradox that in a country, how much else is a public responsibility, we do not have a clearer political position of responsibility for securing people somewhere to live. For the Workers' Party, housing is just one of the four pillars of welfare policy, together with education, health and labour policy. Altogether, these are the basis for everyone to create a good life. Now there are five million people living in Norway, and the population is growing rapidly, fortunately. The forecasting centre calculates the need for new dwellings each year to approx. 38 000. In recent years, housing has been well below this level. The housing shortage, combined with a low interest rate, high wages and good access to credit, has given rise to high price pressures in the housing market. In a few years, housing prices have increased significantly, and there is no indication that there will be any other development. Both nationally and locally, there is a need for a clearer location of political responsibility for housing. Today, responsibility for housing is fragmented and divided into several government councils, several commissions and different levels of government. In addition, no one has a clear responsibility for the provision of housing. Local authorities must take greater responsibility for meeting population developments in their own municipality. At the same time, municipalities feel that the state, in its many divisions, limits the possibility of taking this responsibility. The Labour Party wants municipalities with offensive and forward-looking housing policies to meet a country that is positive and cooperative and acts as a coordinated and constructive partner. We must both make stricter demands on the municipalities and at the same time give them the freedom to develop their own areas. Then I have to make a comment to the representative Borghild Tenden's hopes that the banks will help to curb the growth of loans. In my opinion, there is a hope that I don't think will be fulfilled, because the banks earn money on loans, and the main purpose of the banks is profit maximisation over time. That's to the extent that a good purpose, that's, but then there's no limitation in lending that's their main focus, it's the opposite of borrowing as much money as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1017	Michael Tetzschner said in his post that he looked forward to receiving a housing message marked by new, exciting thoughts. Then we must also have a discussion about the existing system of deductions or tax regimes. We were both in a panel debate a few weeks ago, and then it was the chief economist in First Securities, Harald Magnus Andreassen, who largely pointed out that there are no offers that are the main cause of the problematic price and cost growth. There are two main reasons: it's simply that very many of us have good private finances and then it's the existing deduction regime. So let's take that debate. I didn't say SV would remove the interest deduction. If we're going to put a roof, it's probably something that needs to be done over a long period of time. So I think that debate really welcomes many of us. As far as BSU is concerned, I think Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has a very good point when he says that compensatory measures are needed here. On the one hand, it was very understandable that this equity requirement came, but on the other hand, we see very clearly that it has some unfortunate consequences for those we just need to pay particular attention to, those who really have problems getting into this demanding market. In that case, it is an instrument that should be considered to strengthen, and it is a start-up loan. So that's how I feel about the background of what the Left does, making it an instrument that reaches so many, and reaches so wide. So if at the same time this is going to catch up with those who really need it, a lot of money has to be raised into the start-up loan scheme. So a little bit more about BSU. What is the problem with the existing tax deduction regime and with the BSU regime is that it is primarily those of us who have money, who have the ability and economic ability to save and invest, who get help. In this sense, strengthening the BSU, which in itself can be good for those who are able to make use of that scheme, will not happen to those who have problems already entering this market. That's what Roger Schjerva refers to, that statistics show that it's the ones that have the highest income and wealth, that already use the BSU today. And if we strengthen BSU, it's essentially the same target group that we also reach in this way. For example, in the case of the Left's proposal: the proposals No 11 and 13 proposed by the Committee on Housing, so they're completely unproblematic. But the proposal about the House Bank – to split a good competence environment into 429 smaller units – is something we do not take the chance to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1030	This is a rather interesting debate. First to two important points: the reason we have a housing market in Norway is that people in Norway should have a good and safe place to live, and the main feature of the housing market and housing prices is to provide enough housing. In order to achieve the targets for the first point, it is important that we have a low-entry housing market, where the costs of housing are evenly spread beyond the period of residence. In Norway today, it is typical that it is the opposite. You have a high entry threshold, and after you have managed to become owner, you have low costs. The high entry threshold is mainly due to the high housing prices, but also to other things, such as the 15 pst rule and various document requirements. With regard to the Committee's comments, I note that when it comes to the 15 p.m. rule, the majority is very concerned about the equity of the housing owners, with reference to financial stability. When they later comment on the removal of the document fee, this is no longer so important. If a owner of a dwelling first buys a dwelling, then to sell it immediately afterwards at the same price as the person purchased the dwelling, the person will have lost 2.5 pst. of its equity. So it's hard to see that it makes sense to increase the equity requirement by 5 pst. where the justification is financial stability, while using the document fee to weaken the equity of the housing market by 2,5 pst. If the document fee had been removed, one so funded had half the increase in the equity requirement. I also think it's a cross of thought that the government parties are blessing the Financial Supervisory Board's requirements for 15 p.m. equity on the purchase of a dwelling, but at the same time will not increase the ceiling on housing savings for young people beyond NOK 150000. So it's interesting if some of the people who are opposed to the increase in the BSU limit can tell me how many places in the Oslo region you can get a dwelling of 1 million. NOK, because that's exactly what you say: NOK 150 000 is enough in equity. As regards the 15 p.m. requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority, I think individual assessments should be opened up here. So this is a private bank that wants to lend a loan to a borrower. For example, I want to do this. believe that a newly-trained engineer, who has his whole life ahead of him, may have a slightly better ability to pay than, for example, an unskilled 50-year-old, who has incidentally managed to save a few dollars in a few years. Otherwise, Gjermund Hageseter has taken up a number of points that show what increases the housing prices, so I'm not going to get into all of these regulations here. My conclusion is that it is the politicians and a bit of excessive bureaucrats who are responsible for the rising housing prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1047	This has been an interesting debate because it so clearly gets the differences between us in what we think is right to do, despite the fact that we have a fairly similar understanding of reality at the bottom. I will comment on some of the contributions, and first let me start with Borghild Trend's articles about the House Bank, which I must say I was a little confused by. Moving all the tools of the House Bank to other banks I can understand is nothing but a closure. Housing-social instruments are largely managed by municipalities today – in the case of start-up loans, housing aid and start-up grants. The House Bank is an important partner for municipalities in this work, with specific competence and with the various support schemes they manage. It's this partner left now wants to take away the municipalities. I do not understand that it can have other effects than that it affects young people and disadvantaged people particularly hard. In addition, it means that residential purposes must compete with all other purposes in Norwegian municipalities and that the unique and unique environment of the Husbank will disappear. What is most important to young people's ability to settle in their own homes is a responsible policy that ensures that people have jobs and avoid unnaturally high interest rates. In addition, more housing needs to be built, and we need to achieve a better balance between supply and demand. Several have criticised the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority for equity. The Progress Party and the Left, as I understand it, will vote in favour of proposals whereby the Stortinget transforms the decision of the Financial Supervisory Authority. It is an irresponsible proposal. If that's something we should have learned from the financial crisis in the United States, it makes sense to supervise the banks and control the credit market. The OECD presented its report on the Norwegian economy on Tuesday. They say a lot of things. Much is good, Norwegian economy is solid, but two things concern the OECD. One is housing prices, the other is indebtedness in Norwegian households. 12 pst. Norwegian households have liabilities of more than six times annual income. We have to take that seriously. Facilitating increased borrowings for people who can't serve debt is not the way to go. The representative Bekkewold takes up the House Bank and asks why the Workers' Party did not vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal. In 2011, we also adopted a loan framework for the House Bank of 15 billion. kr. It was later extended to 20 billion. kr, because the need was there. Similarly, for 2012, we decided that the framework is 15 billion. kr, and asked the government to return to Stortinget with proposals for enlargement if necessary. Finally, I just want to say that I am pleased that the representative Hagen mentioned the imbalance in the rental market. The rental market is a very important part of the housing market. In fact, Norway has the lowest proportion of rented dwellings in Europe, and we need more. The municipalities also have an important task here, and it is a crossroads that where the need for rented housing is greatest, in Oslo, the offer is being reduced, thanks to political decisions in Oslo City Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1062	This is a very important issue to debate, but even more an important issue to find solutions to. Having seen a lot of writing in the media from the Workers' Party about the housing committee they put down, which was supposed to look at the issues, I am surprised that the Workers' Party does not use this opportunity to promote any suggestions for solutions, but instead chooses to vote against all the proposals, both those which the Advance Party originally promoted, and also those which have emerged on the occasion of the case. Then this housing selection appears only as an alibi and not as a solution shop, and there are solutions that we now need. One gets the impression that here's the market that's failed, that's this frail market with free players who don't do the job, and now the state is going to come and clean it up. It shows a little that someone doesn't understand how the market works. This market depends on both the providers of housing and on those who demand it, and the demand for housing is quite free. People can buy homes and live where they want, and that's important. But when you look at the provision of housing, it's heavily regulated through government demands, through regulation plans and stuff like that. In that case, the municipalities are largely not the ones that fail, but the state rules are the ones that are being printed on the municipalities. I'm from Rogaland. The municipality of Sandne has rapporteur from the Labour Party. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 3 January you could see what the new year's date for the Sandnes rapporteur contained. He said, ‘The development of around 60,000 people over the next 30 to 40 years is at stake following strong opposition from the county council to the east of Sandnes and the town band south.’ So one has plans to expand many, many thousands of homes in this area into a growing region, but one is not allowed by the State's extension arm, the government's extended arm. This is about how one defines real policy, and how one defines many other things. Then the politicians must start to look at the demands we make from this house, which the government must follow up, not start to owe on a market. Some of the previous speakers have given the impression that the requirements here are not what drives the price level. Well, you make stricter demands, which make it more expensive to expand, you don't build out until the market price is at the level where you actually make money on it. It's pretty simple. Some people say that we in the Progress Party are bad because we don't want universal design on absolutely every apartment to be built. We're doing this because it's going to be a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more We want it to be possible for ordinary people to have common dwellings, and then there should be universal design on some dwellings. If the red-greens claim that this does not incur the costs of ordinary dwellings, then why do they have the same requirements except student homes? Obviously, it has to be because they see that this is expensive. Why do you think this is expensive for student homes, but not for ordinary homes? So the red-greens have a lack of logic that makes this not related. Then we get the results we now see – a sharp increase in housing prices, while a person is looking for patches on the wound instead of doing something about the cause of the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1080	It's interesting to follow the debate in the hall today. Of course, it is also the case that the proposals that have been made on the table are something that I would like to take with me as responsible for housing policy. Yes, it is that the tax policy is in the Ministry of Finance – I don't think it is changed with the first – and the planning part of the planning and building laws is in the Ministry of Environment, but housing policy lies with me. Therefore, I will present two big messages this year, which will show the government – i.e. both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party – its housing policy. Therefore, it is also natural that the Labour Party, which was asked for in a previous article, should put its proposals into that work and not bring them here today. We're actually in government. Why is it an exception for student housing, ask the representative Solvik-Olsen. Well, a student building uses one for a limited time of life. Most of us study while we're young. Very few people live in a student housing for older years. It's not like all of the housing needs to be prepared for the traffic jams. But a certain part of them should be that. There should be access to all the terraces, to a toilet and so that one can visit friends and friends, but all the dwellings do not need to be available. It makes sense that it's like this, there's no failure in logic from the government's side. That's logic. When we get older, on the other hand, when we have more problems with being completely functionally healthy, many of us will need furnished housing. Then such apartments will be requested. And then we're going to build them now – because it's smart – instead of building them again later. Today, I'm remodeling. The state is giving way to the conversion of existing dwellings for the elderly because many who could otherwise have offered homes cannot do so because of high doorsteps, for narrow doors, etc. It is then quite good social economy to facilitate that the housing we build today is organized, so that both I and everyone else in the hall here and the rest of the population can use the same housing throughout their lives. There are many aspects to this debate. I thought it would be quite one-sided if one just pointed to the housing supply as a problem. It's also true that what's great about this society, we have a lot of people in work, low unemployment, high incomes, high incomes and good capital, makes many people invest in the housing market. I don't have a number of how much it is, but we can't leave it alone and say that housing hasn't been an investment object, because it's been too many. We subsidize by over 50 billion. kr per year. Of course, it also has some impact on the market and how it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1093	I can give the Council of State to Navarsete that it may be side-motivation for someone by buying a dwelling, that is, that one also sees it as a money placement, and that for those reasons there may be some overinvestment in a dwelling. The best way to counter this is to eliminate taxes on wealth, as other forms of savings will also be equalised. Today there are considerable benefits related to housing investment. What made me want the word again was the contribution from the representative Haugli, who was in charge of the Financial Supervisory Authority's increased equity requirements. In the debate, there is a tendency to forget that, in addition to the increased equity requirement, there has also been a tightening of the importance of what is used to assess the equity requirement. In the past, only the lending rate of the house you were going to buy was seen, and now you're also drawing other debt ratios, such as unsecured loans and consumption loans, into the overall assessment. There's a tightening up that can be good reasons to defend. Now this is not the problem with the indebtedness in this part of the housing market, because there are people coming in. I think it's quite unreasonable that it's those who are going to carry the whole weight of the equity requirement, while the rest of the housing market, where people take proceeds from a previously sold apartment on, will not feel any contraction – if that was the intention. I also want to say that the option to deny people loans with equity claims of 10 pst. is that they are in contact with the municipalities, where they must then ask for a start-up loan, which, as is known, has a zero equity requirement. I don't know, either, if you see the housing sector as a whole, if there's any contribution to the soundness of housing funding that you push people because they don't get 15 pst. equity coverage. Then they are pushed over to forms of loan where no equity is required at all. Finally, I just want to explain why we cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party on Financial Supervision, which, of course, addresses the same issue: 10-15 pst. equity. That is because what has been said is that the Financial Supervisory Authority should have an advisory function, and we cannot agree to that. We're going to have a financial supervision that is so that when they decide to tighten them up, they have to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1106	I think this has been an interesting debate in which the lines of policy have emerged quite clearly in some speeches. I also think that the government party clearly admits – at least indirectly – that the policy that has been pursued over the last few years has not been successful in building enough housing, has been given sufficient space for housing construction. Nevertheless, I have not registered any new measures, no new solutions that will allow this to be improved in the future. On the contrary, there is an impression that the policies that have been pursued will continue, new state-level detailed requirements for energy efficiency, dense construction and passive houses will emerge – the last of which is feedback from the industry that they use relatively much effort to adapt, and there are, of course, forces and resources that result in fewer housing being built. We also get feedback that it becomes so complicated that there are many smaller builders who will have problems adapting to the new requirements and who cannot produce houses for the future. When it comes to universal design, the Council of State believes that there was no paradox in making an exception for student buildings, because there should only be a short time. I can only say that when I studied law in Bergen, I did not bid in a student building, but I bought an apartment in an ordinary block in Bergen. She was at 28 m2. There I didn't plan to stay that long, I had plans to stay there while I was studying, which I also did, at least most of the time I was studying. There was a small kitchen, there was a small shower and a small bathroom, and then there was a living room that was used as both a bedroom and a living room. I can promise that it was not possible to get any wheelchair into that apartment. Such an apartment can no longer be built because one sets these universal design requirements in all apartments. One has no lower limit. Returns from property brokers show that those who have wheelchairs, those who need universal design, do not ask for the small apartments of 30-40 m2, those who want apartments that are much larger. I would once again ask the Council of State to reconsider its view of that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1125	The next speaker is the representative of Håkon Haugli – Haugli is the rapporteur on the matter and therefore has 3 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1128	I'll be brief. It was Mr. Ketil Solvik-Olsen's contribution that made me redraw. It is nice that the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party participates in this debate, but I think it is clear that he has not followed so closely, and would like to ask some questions that I hope he can answer when he gets the floor after me. I hear that Solvik-Olsen's explanation of rising housing prices is regulatory requirements, in particular the requirements for wheelchair access. Then I would like to know, if this is the case, why is it that in geographical areas, where the construction costs are the same, the housing prices are very different? Why is it that housing prices are rising significantly more than construction costs? And why is it that used dwellings have increased as much as new dwellings, used dwellings that are not covered by wheelchair requirements? In addition, I have a different and more fundamental question to the Financial Policy Spokesman of the Progress Party: is it only in this case that politicians should review and review the assessments of the Financial Supervisory Authority, or is there any other matter where the assessments of the Financial Supervisory Authority should be set aside because of disagreement with them? Does he agree that the Financial Supervisory Authority is doing an important job that is critical to supervision of the financial market, or should it be up to us here in this Chamber to make own assessments of what is right to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1142	I mentioned that red-green politicians lack understanding of the market. This is why one of the problems you have now; one believes that one can regulate himself out of the market instead of ensuring a better balance between supply and demand. That's precisely why old dwellings increase as much in price as new dwellings, because there's so much shortage of totality of dwellings that a promise used prices for old dwellings. The level of cost of building new ones is so high that regulation is adopted that a waits to expand. Then it means that one builds out what is bill equivalent to the market price, but it also means that the houses around, which are of similar size, etc., also increase in value, because the demand is much larger than the offer. This is fundamentally about supply and demand. That's why the Progress Party argues that if one had made it easier to build some smaller homes and had not had universal organization requirements in absolutely everyone, one would clearly meet the need for housing for more people. Then a better balance in the market would be obtained, and then one would also see a greater difference between new and old dwellings in terms of pricing. It's that simple. It is just to look at some countries where one has tried to regulate, for example. availability of cars. When there is a total lack of cars, one is willing to pay very much, even for older cars. Eastern European countries, with which some parties have had very good contact, are examples of this. When it comes to universal design, I also want to say that people move a lot. It's not like the home that people buy when they end up in college is the home that they get old in. Therefore, it is important to have a diversity in the market. It is a good social economy to ensure that access and the common area are organised for all, but it is not necessarily a good social economy to ensure that 100 pst. of the housing stock is adapted to any foreseeable purpose. Then one will invest a lot in needs that will never occur. It is therefore necessary to vary the requirements of the private housing market. It's important here to make sure that people actually manage to get into the housing market when they're young. There is no point in having a dwelling where you can live from 18 to 72 years old, or 80 years old, if you can't afford to buy when you are 18, or 25 years old – that's the problem. The government has not intervened. In the case of the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Right decided at their national meeting that they would remove the requirement of 15 p.m. equity to obtain housing loans. Then I do not understand why the Right cannot support our proposal. We believe that the Financial Supervisory Authority is doing a very important job. So far, financial supervision has advised not to lend more than 90 p.m., but they have been very flexible in terms of banks. Now it's become a very strong demand for 85 pst. And we see in today's Newspaper that it makes some people take up consumption loans instead. That's the worst and stupidest way you can finance your home. But that is the result of housing policy and the policy now implemented by the Financial Supervisory Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1156	I do not want to extend the debate, but it was the case rapporteur who made me take the floor. I simply believe that the rapporteur must accept that we in the Left want both this reorganisation and that the municipalities should be given greater responsibility, and that we want to build up their competence locally. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur has no more faith in local forces. It's local you know the challenges best. Then he mentioned the concern of the first-time starters. I said in my post that we want to establish that even the initial starters must be an independent category in order to come under the scheme. The way we see it, it seems the opposite. This is an advantage for the early starters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1163	I couldn't avoid taking the word when I hear all the posts. First of all, I think we can agree that we have a high economic activity in the housing market, and that the high housing prices are increasingly due to higher housing costs. If we can agree on this, the measures taken by the Financial Supervisory Authority will not remedy the problem – they will reinforce it instead, and we see more examples of this now. The trend of rising housing prices is mainly due to two — or more — ratios: constant growth in construction costs over a long period of time, but also to the fact that we have a huge population growth, especially in large cities. More people want a place to live. But then we see politicians and superfluous bureaucrats putting obstacles in the way of where you can build. You are not allowed to build in forest and land – the debate on the land border is a famous and well-known debate outside Oslo’s borders as well. The same is true of Drammen: you're not allowed to build in cultivated land. Then the farmers come and will take us. Then we have the beach zone. So even though we're a long-distance coastal country, with a lot of coast, it's not allowed to build in the beach zone either. There are many debates about not being allowed to build the height either. Of course, it affects housing prices. At the same time, more and more of the existing building stock is being protected and saved, so you can't tear and build a new one. Where do you want to build? Of course, it affects market prices. Another thing is that in the big cities, for example. in Oslo and in the Drammen where I myself live, is one of the major cost drivers for higher housing prices requirements for parking. If you are building a new dwelling or apartment in the big city, you will need a parking space. Although on the other hand – other politicians, especially environmental politicians – you say: No, you prefer not to have a car, you have to use collective services. A little contradictory, you ask me. As far as construction costs are concerned, the problem is not the single good intention, but the sum of it all. Then we have the House Bank. There is no requirement for 15 pst. equity. The taxpayer must therefore be the risk takers. Who is it the House Bank lends? It's the disadvantaged in society. But there is no requirement that there should be a credit check on those applying for a loan from the House Bank. That should worry more politicians. It was also a matter of market failure. Obviously, I'm not going to get into that right now. Student housing is exempt from universal design requirements. There is, of course, an almost monopoly – only student partnerships are receiving state subsidies to build student housing. But there are many others who want to have a home where they only live in shorter periods. Someone buys, and sells when they move, and some tenants. So if you hire someone, someone owns it and has built it according to certain state requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1180	I'm going to be brief, there are some civil representatives here who say that we don't have time for this. But then the civil representatives also had to refrain from providing incorrect information to the Stortinget. So it was representative Jørund Rytman's posts that made me take the floor. He stands here and claims that the largest cost driver for housing in the municipality of Drammen, which is also my municipality of residence, is the requirement for parking. The history of housing policy in Drammen: I purchased a housing flat with contributions of NOK 50 000. Then Kåre Willoch joined the government and felt very sorry for me, who could not sell it for three times as much as I had bought it for. During the night, the price of that dwelling increased to NOK 150 000. We continued to have the aftermaths of a workers' party government in the Drammen, which had an active housing policy, which actively bought up land, organized under municipal control, had a target of building 450-500 homes a year – need-driven – and which made sure that ordinary people with normal incomes could afford to get a home. When the bourgeois took over the management of the Drammen, it was over. Then housing policy was based on agreements with private landowners, and it was over building dwellings in the Drammen for a very long time. Now, as Solvik-Olsen's representative actually says, it's the imbalance between supply and demand that drives prices in the weather. I still live in housing law – I paid NOK 540,000 in deposits. Now they're going to go about three million. kr. The housing policy of the citizens of my municipality for many years – which is about letting the so-called market run, leaving the profits of private landowners who govern the number of dwellings to be built – has led the youth of the Drammen to the point of being priced out of town. It is the story of the housing prices in Drammen – not the parking spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1195	The representative Jørund Rytman has spoken twice before, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1198	I think Lise Christoffersen might just have heard the one sentence that I had in my post. I and several of my co-representatives have framed many reasons why the sum is getting bigger. When it comes specifically to parking spaces, I think maybe I am the one in the Drama who has experienced it very closely, as I have actually experienced that claim myself. I can just ask Lise Christoffersen to take a check on what the market price for a parking lot in the Drammen is. It'll probably depend a little bit on where in the drama center it is, but it will vary between $100,000 and $20,000. It comes on top of the purchase of the apartment. It's not vision; it's a fact. For my own part it is that when I was going to turn a rough ceiling into two apartments, I was required to buy two parking spaces. This is what it says!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1205	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1208	I think Lise Christoffersen's posts were good at one point, where she confirmed that there is the imbalance between supply and demand that is the driver in the prices we see now. When I claimed it in my previous post, the case rapporteur sat and shook his head vigorously and disagreed very much with it, but it is good that someone understands how the market works, and how it affects. My main argument is that it is still a fact that state restrictions on access to land and state intervention in how the buildings are to be built are driving costs up. Then we have to do something about it; don't sit down and talk about how to fix the problems that arise with a failed policy at national level over seven years of coming with rental homes and all this. I'm not against rental homes, but that's not the cause of the problem. The cause of the problem is, in short, that one has had an environmental protection minister named Erik Solheim, who has tried to stop everything because he is to protect the fiddles – to put it simply, but very true.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1215	The representative, Michael Tetzschner, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1218	A somewhat unusual tribute came to the housing market before it was deregulated in the 1980s. Then the representative Lise Christoffersen must be a very rare bird, for there are very few who have wanted to return to the arrangements they had at the time. I remember that large groups of buyers were then made criminals – in and of themselves the sellers – by demanding and receiving money under the table. Then there was an official price – and politicians could say it was because of the successful housing policy – while everyone who was looking for housing had to go into the grey market and find money. So it was that you got all this up on the table that liberalized and also reorganized that kind of questionable turnover. My question to Lise Christoffersen is: does she really want the regulated housing market back? It's very interesting to get answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1225	I just drew myself to reject that I've shook my head, because I haven't shook my head. On the contrary: I share Solvik-Olsen's analysis 100 pst. It's the distance between supply and demand that drives the housing prices. I also said that clearly in my main post. The difference between us is that this price challenge is something that Solvik-Olsen thinks is due to wheelchair demands and not the total sum of an too low offer and a lot of demand. As I said in my main post, in recent years we have experienced strong population growth in combination with a slowdown in the housing market. Fortunately, it's about to turn around. That's what's the basic challenge. I didn't shake my head.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1232	The rapporteur then denied his dissatisfaction, which was therefore no dissatisfaction. We will continue on the list of speakers – the representative Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1238	I just want to correct an obvious misunderstanding. It is not just the civil representatives who have a bad time: the Labour Party has called for a meeting, so I am going to be even faster now than I was. I just have to answer the question from Michael Tetzschner – do I want to go back to the regulated housing market? Yeah, but I'm afraid it's too late. The situation that Michael Tetzschner describes, we did not have in Drammen – I told the story about the development of housing prices in Drammen – because there were the rulers in the housing laws who decided who would be bought. So all the times I bought a housing flat in the Drammen, I have not been able to pay – or have been charged – money under the table, because it was not the buyer and not the seller who made that decision – it was the rulers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1245	Then it looks as if the housing conditions in the Drammen in the 1970s have been clarified, and we can end this debate. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1261	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1267	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1334	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right-wing proposals No. 4-8, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposals Nos. 9-13, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 10-13, from the left. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for the reorganisation of the Husbank so that the housing, building and environmental instruments are transferred to the municipalities and the bank part of the Husbank is merged with another public bank, such as the Municipal Bank AS.’; Proposal No. 11 reads: ‘The government is asked to introduce a Norwegian home purchase model, where rented housing can be paid down through rent and will be owned in the long term.’ Proposal No. 12 reads: ‘The government asks the government to extend the starting loan criteria through the Husbank so that ‘first-time starters’ are also defined as a group under the scheme.’ Proposal No. 13 reads: ‘The government requests a change in the maximum repayment period for start-up loans through the Husbank from a maximum of 20 to a maximum of 30 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1377	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads: ‘The government is asked to propose improvements to the BSU scheme in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2013 by increasing the deduction rate to 28 per cent, increasing the annual savings amount to NOK 30000 and the total savings amount to NOK 300000.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1393	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Financial Supervisory Board’s proposals on equity requirements become advisory and not binding on banks.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1409	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-8, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the relevant regulations so that a general requirement for wheelchair adjustment in apartments below 55 m2 does not apply.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the winding-up of the document fee for housing purchases.’ Proposal No. 7 reads: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals reintroducing municipal autonomy as regards measures in the so-called beach zone or 100 metres belt.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up and submit an owner-occupied housing report.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1440	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes to limit the right of objection of the county and county council to planning and construction matters.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1454	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to amend relevant laws and to amend the regulation itself, so as to make it easier for municipalities to regulate new living space.’ Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘The Government is asked to review special laws relating to the processing of construction products and to make the necessary proposals with a view to simplifying legislation and procedures as far as possible.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1492	The case concerns the second treatment of changes in the church law, etc. Legislative Decision 58. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-24.ana.ud1972e1516	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
