ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e64	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e91	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes. Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Central Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines up to six lines with replies following the insertion of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e102	It is a strength that we are broadly politically behind Norway's Northern Region policy. The disagreement is mainly expressed in the form of greater impatience from the opposition — and there is no bad starting point for what the government itself refers to as its main strategic focus. It must be a privilege for a government to have an opposition that wants more of the policies that the government itself believes are so important. The Committee's work on the Communication has not been marked by the great political tensions, and I want to commend the Committee for its constructive work. My starting point for the work has been that a good message should be made more pointed and more concrete in some areas. There was never any reason to challenge the strategic and general message of the message. Therefore, the recommendation of the Committee is essentially an extension of the notification and not an alternative to the notification. Before I start talking about strategy and transport routes and more, I would like to stress that the North Region policy is primarily about people. It is about how we create development and prosperity in a sensible way for citizens living in the north, but also about how such development will have an impact on the whole population of Norway. Because it is true that the northern regions concern the whole country. I feel that almost no matter where I am, I meet people who work with projects and themes that are directly related to the development in the north. When we want to take advantage of the strategic opportunities that exist for Norway by being a nation in the Arctic and the Arctic, it is much more than simply raising resources above or below the surface of the sea — or on land. It's about taking advantage of the geographical advantages we have. Historically, there is nothing new to think about east-west corridors rather than the more famous transport routes north-south. But because of political, but also climatic, conditions, it has not been possible for many years. Now we see changes on several fronts, and opportunities to revitalize old trade routes arise. Prosperity, housing and development have, through history, been very much about exploiting the best trade routes. Now all possibilities are open to exploit our strategic position with trade routes both at land and at sea that could have major ring-fences. We must dry up to be ambitious and ensure that investments take place that underpin the strategic dimension. It is not only useful to look at national transport levels to find answers to the investment needs that need to be met. A North-Area bet requires something more, something extraordinary. In order to achieve the desired development in the northern regions, there are some framework conditions that need to be in place. The foreign policy and strategic aspects, if not fully developed, are at least well in place. Other areas now need more attention. The work on infrastructure in a broad sense must be intensified. These include search and rescue capacity, oil protection, better power supply, adapted ports, rail, major aerodromes, roads and more. With the developments we are now seeing in the Barents Sea, there is a great need for the transport of people and goods. Today’s infrastructure is barely adapted to the current situation and needs to be rapidly modernised to deal with the increased volume of traffic. Another area of emphasis is the building of competences. This is a national challenge that is challenging across the country, but it is expressed in particular in North Norway. In this work, it is important to build on the work already done by Nordic educational institutions. It is important to ensure local recruitment for education and to many of the skills jobs that are now established in the region – not because the job cannot be done as well by others, but because it is also about local anchoring and long-term development of the region. It is then important to support in a natural way under housing and community conditions, not by artificial transfers that are not sustainable in the long term, but in the form of value-creating jobs. The North Sea bet is a bet for the whole country and not just a part of the country. However, there can be no doubt that local support for policy is essential for success. The positive effects of the policy must also be felt most strongly in the part of the country in which the policy is to operate. Environmental awareness is important no matter what you do and where you are, but in a vulnerable area like the Arctic, it is crucial. Fortunately, we feel that this is understood and accepted widely. Knowledge and international cooperation are important for the protection of the Arctic's environmental interests. It will often be such that operating industry in the Arctic will require special precautions. Such considerations require political effort for binding international agreements in several areas and an industry that is conscious of the challenges and that is able to take responsibility for all parts of its activities. Although there is a broad consensus on strict environmental requirements, there are different opinions on how actively we are going to search for petroleum resources. Countries in the Arctic also have different rates and approaches to such activities. This creates the necessary debate and strengthens us in relation to demanding decisions. The consequences and effects of petroleum activity in the Arctic are of a supranational nature and require an international approach. Native people’s interests are safeguarded in a predictable manner in the notification. Involvement and dialogue are crucial to finding solutions that are coherent. Of course, it's not that the interests of indigenous peoples and other groups are always at odds with each other. Finding common denominators is important as a starting point for resolution, while good conflict mechanisms must be in place. Urals have a central place in the Arctic Council, and it provides a good basis for finding solutions to difficult issues. As regards the Committee's position on both the environment and indigenous peoples, there is unanimity. This does not mean that there is no disagreement, but there are some overall common positions. Mining activity north of the Arctic Circle is not new, but activity in Norway has been relatively small in recent decades. This may be changing. More needs to be done, areas need to be identified, framework conditions such as: Landfill solutions must be put in place and measures must also be taken on the education side. We ask in the position that we look at a common strategy in the area of North Sweden and North Finland. The extraction of large resources requires sensible transport solutions, as we know in the case of LKAB and the train transport of ores to Narvik. Combination of gas e.g. The Barents Sea or the Norwegian Sea could be used during mineral extraction in a reasonable manner. This is also how we get regional use of resources from the seabed and create good ring-effects in terms of value creation, jobs and communities with an economic backbone. If Norway is to continue to be a safe supplier of gas to Europe, it is necessary to look for more resources in the Barents Sea, as it is now envisaged. Parts of the Norwegian Sea are still closed, and neither the message nor the setting say anything about what should happen here. But the Progress Party believes it is unnatural not to include the sea areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole in a future petroleum strategy. If we're going to do a strategic approach like building a pipeline from the Barents Sea and the South, this makes more sense if we also connect to the gas deposits that we hope to find outside of Northland and Troms. Such a gas pipeline must also supply gas for different purposes in North Norway. Choice of the type of infrastructure associated with gas detection is also a strategic choice. The establishment of a fixed infrastructure with gas pipes has implications and introduces into the energy market and in the relationship between Norway and the rest of the world. It is therefore important to recognise that the choice of solutions in this area is more than simply to adapt to the market. Oil and gas activity in new waters of the north requires close cooperation between authorities and industry. We need to put in place good oil protection, close cooperation with other countries – particularly Russia. Competence needs to be reworked, we need to have common exercises, and we need to ensure that equipment to be used can easily cross borders and not be stopped by bureaucratic barriers. Our relationship with Russia is an important driving force for much of the development that is taking place in the north. The clarification of the Barents and Pole Sea frontier provides predictability and security. Continued closer cooperation in key areas such as fisheries management and training provide positive ring-effects. This must continue and be anchored widely in Norwegian administration and society. The long-term goal must be that relations with Russia can be managed, as we relate to our other neighbouring countries. It's possible it's a utopia, but we have to be able to set some ambitious goals. Despite a good cooperation climate, it is not free for challenges to exist, and these must be clearly addressed. An example is the fire we experienced around New Year's in an atomic submarine, and the lack of warning by the Norwegian authorities. The absence of democracy and a functioning judiciary also deserve our attention. It is demanding to expect Norwegian companies to invest in Russia with the uncertain framework conditions that exist. Despite major challenges, there is no alternative to working together and seeking common solutions. It is an impatience, not least from the majority of the Committee, to upgrade the border station in Storskog and to look at the practice of issuing a Schengen visa for Russians. The goal is to have a practice that is equal to, for example, Finland. We are going to have an important debate on Nikel and pollution later today. This is a serious situation that illustrates that we have not come as far as we want in our bilateral work. The security policy aspect in the north is central. Now I don't want to spend much time on this, but I would like to stress that for the Advancement Party, this is an area we will follow up in the future – not least the capacity for presence and sovereignty. Arctic advice is still in the process of finding its form. The Council can become clearer and more active, not least in terms of common challenges in the Arctic, such as maritime safety, search and rescue and oil protection. It's not often you hear the Presidency of the Arctic Council comment on important Arctic issues, it happens so never. There is concern among some that Arctic Councils are at risk of being less effective in increasing the number of observers. I think the attractiveness of the Arctic Council should be taken as strength and relevance, and as long as observers are taken up who have clear intentions to contribute to the challenges, it is a strength. It is naive to think that one can isolate the Arctic from the globe otherwise and almost close it inside as a sphere exclusively disposed of by eight states. Arctic Councils should also be praised, not least for being a driving force behind too much of the current Arctic research. My clear impression is that there is no other intergovernmental organisation that so clearly involves researchers in their work. There has also been a positive contribution to coordinating research across borders. The combination of research and policy and diplomacy is – I am aware of it – unique and is enough of a contributing factor for so many countries to want to get involved in the work of the Council. The organisation of North Norway and cooperation in the north occasionally appear as a theme. For those who do not have their daily stand in the region, one should be careful to think too much, but in a situation where the world is getting closer and closer to the country in terms of transport and new industrial actors, and where attention is being paid to both other parts of the country and other regions of the world, one must ask whether one is well organised and sufficiently cooperative. Large geographical distances and small populations reinforce the problem. Although the national community is attractive in a lot of ways, it is that the winners in a global context are those who are able to be so interconnected in profiling that you look beyond municipal and county boundaries and see the region as a whole. Now there is no unhealthy rivalry between cities and regions, especially for North Norway – there are equally strong elsewhere – but the conditions mentioned, such as geography and small populations, mean that North Norway is facing a stronger challenge than for example. Rogaland or Oslo and Akershus. I feel that this is something you are aware of, and that you work with, but that there are often interests that stand in the way of taking all the necessary steps in such a process. Finally, the challenge now is to fill the North Region Action with concrete follow-up. Much of that follow-up requires appropriations. The government therefore has an important task in the future to ensure that the message and the content of the setting are followed up in a way that makes everyone understand that this is both the main strategic focus of the government and the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e161	I'm going to start about where the last speaker ended, with what's about cooperation in the north. Last week I was at the KS’s large assembly in Bodø, where the county meetings in North Norway were gathered for the first time – a meeting where over 200 local politicians in North Norway gathered to discuss the future in the north. It's the first time such a collection has taken place, and it's in itself a historical event and an answer to what the representative called for before me. But what is primarily worth noting from the meeting in Bodø was the common, cross-political statement that was made there. It firmly – and began with – that North Norway is characterized by optimism and belief in the future. It's worth noting, because we go back ten years in time, such an opinion would have been completely unimaginable. Of course, the statement and the mood of last week in Bodø say a lot about the possibilities and potential of the northern regions, but it also says a lot about the fact that, through attention, concrete appropriations and concrete measures, North Region policy has actually begun to deliver results – not only at sea, where the very rationale for Northern Region policy is in many ways, but also to land. Then I am going to stress that, of course, Northern Region policy is to take care of national interests related to sovereignty, resource utilisation, environmental management, climate and knowledge. This is a bet that will benefit the whole country, and it does! Oil company and supplier industries have gained access to new large exploration areas. This has led to considerable findings, and it is contributing to missions, incomes and work along large parts of the coast at a time when millions of Europeans are going unemployed. The historical sharing line agreement gives even greater cause for optimism for the future of all the thousands of people in Norway who depend on this industry. Knowledge environments throughout the country – the Marine Research Institute in Bergen, SINTEF in Trondheim and all members of the Arctic University – are committed to developing knowledge about and for the North. Both sound marshes and Finnish marshes, which often disagree with much in the fisheries policy, all benefit from what has been done with regard to sound fisheries management in the Barents Sea. At the same time, what happens in the north is particularly important for those who actually live in the north – and there are increasing numbers of them. At New Year's, there was a population record in North Norway. 470,000 people now live in North Norway, and so many have never lived there before. Over the last four years, the population of the Nordic countries has increased by 9 000 people. It's amazing! Take the 20 years before that, the population increased by 13 people. So it's a historical shift that has taken place, and it's clear that it's largely related to value creation. Between 2005 and 2010, 10 000 new jobs were created in North Norway. That's very good. The strategic priorities of the government’s Northern Region Communication are a very good basis for furthering the Northern Region Policy for the benefit of the nation and the Northern Norway region. It is also gratifying that in Stortinget there is broad support for the main actions of the message. The results we can now take note of should be an inspiration for further action. Then it is clear that the North Sea Communication needs to be followed up and concreteised in many different areas of activity – through the National Transport Plan, through the forthcoming maritime food communication, through the mineral strategy announced, through the research priorities that need to be done, and not least through the dialogue with our neighbouring countries and with other actors in the north – in the international arena. So I believe that a very important message from here today is that we need to be as conscious of managing the knowledge that we are managing the natural resources, because that is the factor that will most likely determine whether we succeed as a nation and in particular as part of the country. It is about investing in relevant climate technologies. It's about the fact that we from a national team have a responsibility to make the educational institutions in the north able to take on the heavy tasks they have. Then we must also expect the politicians in the north to take responsibility for quality and content in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e184	A large part of the world now has its eyes fixed on the north. In Northern Region policy, the Right wants clear commitments with clear and concrete ambitions. In the coming years, Norway must play an even greater role in our northern regions, including our cooperation with Russia, Finland and Sweden. We believe that one of the challenges lies in the need for greater clarity on the part of the government. This is illustrated by the government’s northern division. The notification has too few new measures or concrete ideas to strengthen the northern regions, although it lists more than 100 priorities. Although universities in the north are profitably pushed ahead in the development of Northern Region policy, there is little doubt that political anchoring and not least involvement in the north can be much better. I hope that the proposed Cooperation Forum, which is being established and which involves the Sameting, can stimulate the future work. Premises for the development of the continent must lie in the north, and northwards calls must become more part of the north as well as Barents' cooperation and Arctic work. The Nordic regions deal with a lot of policies and are probably our main foreign and security policy geographical area. It shows the significant international interest in North development. In this work neither shall nor may the universities of the north be those to develop the policy nor provide for the popular anchoring. In the north, however, the Nordic states have been in the forefront of developing contacts to the east and in several other areas. The same can be said of the cross-border contact and work of indigenous peoples. I hope the government can let the northern regions be the spark that brings the Nordic states politicians out of isolation and more into the creative North Region policy. They deserve that, and so are they. The right notes that the government has created great expectations in the north of an active north-eastern policy. This has led to demands for more concrete content, in particular in the fields of value creation, local ring-effects and education. Now is the time to fill these expectations with content. The government has achieved important results in Northern Region policy, including: a historical part-line agreement with Russia. In addition, mention should be made of the contribution to strengthening the increased international interest in the northern regions. Now, the government’s challenge should be to deliver also in areas outside the control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as, for example, culture and industrial development. These are also the areas that are most important for the continued attractiveness of the northern regions. Recent population trends in Norway demonstrate this very, very clearly; the northern part of the country lags behind developments in the rest of the country – not as the previous speaker described the so-called rosary development. Right wants a more active road, rail and port policy in the north. Some strategic airports in the north need to be developed. West-east connections in the North Callot need to be investigated, with the aim of putting in place a spice layer that can help to get flights on the north wings flying in the North Callot. It goes without saying that car trips of 10 to 15 hours or expensive air travel via the respective national capitals inhibit any connection or development. Right wants our defence to have a satisfactory presence in our northern regions. The right wants a more active and targeted education policy in the north, and we propose, among other things. a new Russian language programme. Language is, in this context, a door opener in the north and a contribution to increased exports and cross-border trade, as well as an important measure to strengthen interpersonal contact. In this context, municipalities as well as teachers should be stimulated. We also want an upgrading of engineering training in the north that can take account of the dramatically increased demand for engineers in the north as well. The right will have an active petroleum policy in the north that also opens up to petroleum activity outside the Lofoten, the West and South Troms. In this context, we also want authority functions to be exercised from the north, as the petroleum activity moves northwards. Right will make it easier to start businesses and want to strengthen the Seed Fund scheme in the north. We want to improve visa rules vis-à-vis Russia, which will make border crossing easier and smoother. The government really needs to make efforts to put in place simpler solutions to enable Russian labour force to participate to a much greater extent in the labour market in the northern part of the country. We also want opening hours at customs stations that are more in line with business needs and developments. The proximity of Northern Norway to Russia offers both many opportunities and challenges for business and challenges of different kinds. One of these was illustrated on 29 December last year when the news of a fire on the Russian nuclear submarine “Jekaterinburg” was reported – a fire that unfortunately revealed that our warning agreements with Russia do not come into force when the alarm is due. It is a unanimous committee that underlines our environmental challenges and ambitions in the north, on land and sea. The environmental challenges are enormous. In this picture there are also the combined threats to environmental and security policy. The stocks of Russian nuclear waste near the Norwegian border are the largest in the world. The number of Russian tactical nuclear weapons near the Norwegian border is significant, mainly for regional use. Tactical nuclear weapons are not covered by armaments agreements. That's why we don't know the exact number, but there's reason to believe that between 500 and 1,000 such tactical weapons are in stock on the Kola Peninsula. It is very important that Norway clearly states that we do not think it is okay that such weapons are present in our neighbourhoods. There is little doubt that resources in the north are primarily attracting the attention of the world. Fish, trade routes, minerals and energy are the keywords. The resources are attracting, of course. All major acts of the world, including the EU, are seeking north. This also applies to China's growing interest in the northern regions. In Beijing, it's going to be long-term. There too, it has been found that the ice is melting, that the north-east pass north of Russia is becoming more accessible, with the consequences of bringing China closer geographically to the west. The Chinese now show the same interest in the northern regions as they have shown, for example, for resources in Africa and Latin America. Therefore, in the future, the Northern Region policy will remain our main political arena. There will be no lack of political tasks in the north in the future. It is also a political wish from Norway that we should play a very active role in the Arctic Council, where it is of course in our own interest to actively involve the major powers in this work, and where the rules of international law must be the guiding principle of everyone. The questions such as: As regards the future role and status of China and the EU in Arctic Councils, it must be primarily up to the government to deal with. In the opinion of the Right, such an incriminating and sensitive question is bad enough to be dealt with in a Grand Committee position, and we are somewhat surprised that the majority of the committee found it necessary. Our support for the Arctic Council as the main body for all Arctic issues is also the reason why we have chosen not to support the proposals for a North Coast Guard Forum and a Circumpolar Security Dialogue. It has served the confidence and stability of the northern regions that Arctic Council has been the main venue for important discussions, and the Right does not want to water down this role by constantly establishing new bodies. I would like to mention that Putin has been re-elected as president of Russia, and that door opening and development in the north – the dynamics – have been created primarily through the people-to-people cooperation. Here the northernmost states have gone in the breeze and in the front. We don't know what's going to happen in this area, which has a significant potential. But the people-to-people cooperation needs to be put on, it needs to evolve. One point that I would like to get even more attention is the place of sport. Sport is often seen as part of cultural cooperation in the Barents region, but on the Russian side there are two distinct levels of administration and responsibility. This means that a cultural cooperation agreement for the Barents region between Norway and Russia does not include sport as part of the cooperation. For over 50 years, Finnmark County, Finnmark Sports Circle and Murmansk Oblast have had excellent sports cooperation in the Barents region. The time has now come to formalise a Norwegian-Russian sporting cooperation, similar to what we have today in the Norwegian-Russian cultural cooperation BarentsKult. This is a cooperation which can be enshrined in the Barents Secretariat with similar developments in the framework conditions for sport as for cultural cooperation. Here, Norway’s sports federations have to thank them. Finally, I just want to add that the establishment of the Arctic Committee of the Great Britain has been a success. One of the reasons for this is that this committee has a very active and competent leader who illustrated this through his expertise and main posts in today's Northern Region debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e214	The northern regions, to quote the message, are a global knowledge bank for the environment, climate and society. At the same time, it is an area that can be severely affected if we fail, together with other countries, to pursue offensive climate and environmental policies. Our leading research environments say that the Arctic temperature rise can be twice as high as the global average. We see a acidification of the seas that can hit the fish stocks, the seabird populations and the marine ecosystems. Ice cover in the Arctic has been reduced by one third of summer time in the last few decades. It can have dramatic consequences, not just for the polar bears. The temperature rise liberates CO2 from permafrost and from the Arctic seabed and helps accelerate global warming. That is why, initially, there is reason to stress that climate change is the greatest threat we face. Norway claims sovereignty over 30 pst. of the land and sea areas of Europe. This applies not least to sea areas. The North Sea Communication highlights the importance of the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. The government states that Norway should ‘be a priority country for the holistic and ecosystem-based management of marine areas’. The management plan has defined areas outside the Lofoten and the Western Seabed, Tromsøflaket and Egga edge, the coastline along Finnmark, the areas around the Bear Island and along the polar front and the ice edge as ‘particularly valuable and vulnerable’. They're not just important to Norway and our neighboring countries, but they're it for the world as a food dish. Sea areas include gigantic fishing resources. The cod stocks in the Barents Sea are the largest in the world, the haystacks are record high, and the lotteries are strong. Over the past ten to twelve years, the Norwegian-Russian joint stocks, through good cooperation based on long-term management strategies, a pre-war approach and joint efforts against illegal fishing, have produced very good results, so that the stock situation is now good. It underlines the importance of the precautionary principle and that some areas remain oil-free. Fishing resources and other marine resources need to be secured at a high level for the future — for the benefit of the Nordic countries, for the nation and for the world. Standby in the north is strengthened by tug capacity. There has been increased efforts on the Coast Guard, the replacement of oil protection equipment and the establishment of required navigational officers. But still, the oil bilge does not work at more than a few meters of wave height. And with increased ship traffic and increased oil extraction, the risk of large emissions increases. Oil preparedness must be raised to a certain extent. Should a Deepwater Horizon accident occur in the north, the consequences would be totally disastrous. With a discharge outside Røst corresponding to one quarter of the discharge into the Gulf, the coastal stream would provide oil for the coast all the way to North Cape. Colder water also slows the oil down. The message says that the government will facilitate our technological and market presence in oil protection. It is important – also because we know that the most important environments in oil protection technology are in the north, at NorLense and at the environment in the West. We also have an environment related to the construction of the traffic centre in Vardø. These must be strengthened in the future. They need to have a national role in avoiding environmental damage — there is also economic development. The northern regions are rich in natural resources, but the most important resource in the north is neither oil nor cod – it is the people. Without a viable community, forward-looking business and education and research in North Norway, Northern Region policy cannot succeed. It must be an active policy to harvest the natural resources in the north and create ring-effects in the north. It applies whether it is fishing, petroleum, renewable energy or minerals. It shall not be a colonization of the part of the country, where the north finds and the south wins, to quote Gudmund Hernes. Knowledge is the hub of the Northern Region policy. It will be important to follow up on the development of education and research for and in the north, and on the raising of research environments and educational and business environments to the elite series and to the Champions League.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e243	‘Entry the whole country’ has been one of the slogans of the Centre Party for a long time. As a starting point, the Centre Party has been a driving force to raise the importance of the North regions in government cooperation. We believe it is important for Norway to take on our natural advantages – long coastline and strategic location far north. We are therefore pleased that, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we have made such clear priorities and have chosen to raise the north as our main strategic focus in foreign policy. Thus, after nearly seven years in government, we can launch a North-Area Communication that both points to sound political progress and sets ambitious targets for North-Area Policy in the future. Security and foreign policy have gone from being a geographical edge to almost saying it has become a dawning geopolitical center. It makes strict demands for political action. In order for us to be able to take advantage of the benefits of being such a center, certain assumptions have to be present. First of all, the area must be peaceful and characterized by stability, and we must have knowledge of how to make use of the accompanying position and resources. Work on peace and stability has been carried out along two parallel lines: military presence and sovereignty. There is some background for the transfer of the Armed Forces operational headquarters from Stavanger to Bodø, the modernisation of the Coast Guard and the acquisition of new frigates. At the same time, Norway is a central player in the North Region diplomacy. We play an important role in multilateral cooperation channels and have a good dialogue with Russia bilaterally. Knowledge is the second key to making use of the strategic position and resources available to the northern regions. Therefore, knowledge about, for and in the north, is being raised as an important goal throughout the message, and it is an area that we in the Central Party are flagging very high. We believe that the government's emphasis on the northern areas such as the resource bank, the research arena and the political sphere will attract many of the talents of the future. We will clarify the importance of such efforts in the north and also that all relevant research and education institutions in the country are involved in this work. The basic prerequisites for benefiting from the location and resources of the northern regions are clearly present, for the resources we already have. It is petroleum, fish and minerals. There are resources to be managed with knowledge and good international cooperation as a backstop. We in the Centre Party believe that such use of resources will contribute to a new industry in the North, but we are also concerned that it will facilitate other industrial activities. Agriculture and tourism are seen as important industries for the region as well. We believe that such a broad commitment is necessary in order to ensure a labour market and an economic structure that ensures a spread of residence and good training throughout the region. Nordic policy is, has been, and will be, visionary in the years to come. It points out ambitious targets for how Norway can contribute to the best use of resources in the north and suggests that we should become a major force in the north. After targeted bets for almost seven years, we in the Center Party are very pleased that the North Region bet is as concrete and tangible as it is. This message is neither a North Norway message nor a district policy review. Nevertheless, we are pleased to see that the North Region bet has brought benefits and given real gains to North Norway, for example. that the research communities in the north have been strengthened and that the defence has moved its centre of gravity northwards. The sub-line agreement has been the second most important event in terms of cooperation with Russia. However, it is important to highlight the importance of increased trade with Russia, and here we have achieved a great deal. Of course, it has also been important for the Central Party to maintain differentiated employer fees in the northernmost countries, which we have also received in other parts of the country, even if it is not relevant here. The Central Party Storting Election Programme for this period is called ‘With the heart of the whole country’. For a central party, it warms far into the heart that we represent a government that has delivered, and that continues to set itself high targets for what we are going to do in the future in the Northern Region policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e264	Nordic policy is about strengthening Norway’s position in the north, both regionally and internationally, by drawing on resources, experience and knowledge from all over the country. However, Northern Norway policy is also about strengthening the position of North Norway in Norway. I am pleased that an overall committee so clearly emphasises this in the vote. National strengthening of the northern regions can best be done by laying the basis for work and value creation based on the natural resources of the region. The Christian People's Party believes that the time has come to bring an overall North Region vision to concrete results. It is important that Northern Region policy is seen as a whole and that there is clear coordination of policies between different professional bodies and departments. The main documented results of the North Sea operation so far have come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs area, with the borderline agreement with Russia as the sovereign most important. Furthermore, the challenge is to ensure that other departments also follow the strategy. The Christian People's Party believes that the communication is not binding on new measures and instruments beyond what has already been adopted — it has more character of a status report than a big message about visions and instruments for the future Northern Region policy. Forms such as ‘further development’, ‘further development’, ‘safe and follow-up’ dominate in the context of further priorities. Although more than a hundred priorities are listed in the Communication, new concrete actions that have not been notified in the past are missing. The same approach is seen in the government's annual reporting on the Northern Region policy in the State budget. Both small and large measures and allocations in the areas of different departments are grouped on a common list and are referred to as north-eastern actions. Most of these measures would have a natural place in the state budget even without an explicit North Sea effort. Like the majority of the Committee, the Christian People's Party lacks a clearer commitment to infrastructure measures in the northern regions. This applies to network infrastructure, roads, port capacity and rail. The prospects for industrial development in both oil and gas and the mineral industry will lead to a significant increase in the need for infrastructure capacity. With the findings already made in the Barents Sea and the mineral resources surveyed on land, a time window of 10–15 years is now available to provide the necessary infrastructure. Here we're about to get off the slope. Among other things, we now see that Statnett assesses new gas turbines at Snow White as measures to ensure security of supply of electricity in Finnmark, while what is really needed are power lines. New power lines are a prerequisite both for the development of new renewable energy, for the electrification of oil and gas expansions in the Barents Sea and for large international companies to establish themselves in the North. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a majority in the Committee so strongly emphasises skills and knowledge as the main priority in ensuring future growth and well-being in the North. The population of the three northernmost countries has a lower level of education than the average population. A majority of the Committee therefore calls for the development of a knowledge strategy for North Norway. The aim of the strategy should be to increase the rate of completion in secondary schools to the national average and to increase the overall level of education in the national section. In this way, young people in the north can be better equipped to seize the opportunities that increased activity in oil and gas and the mineral industry will provide for economic growth, employment and housing. When we know that the dropout in high school for boys in Finnmark today is 70 pst., and that only 35 pst. by students and apprentices completing the school in a normal time, we understand that something needs to be done. Unfortunately, it does too little. Such figures should trigger strong measures by the government. Had this been the situation in Oslo School, I think maybe we would have seen a completely different focus on the matter from the government. The Christian People's Party sees it as a central challenge to motivate several Nordic young people to complete high school and obtain education relevant to work in future industries such as oil and gas, minerals and renewable energy. Central business organisations such as the OLF and the NHO have long expressed concerns about the lack of locally competent labour in the north. Finally, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e287	It is common to say in international debate that everyone looks east and south — and everyone does. And so do we, but more and more look to the north. The peculiar thing about it is that there are we – it's with us, outside of us, in the sea with us, on the base of us, and not least on land with us. We've positioned ourselves to this development. Seven years of knowledge, activity and presence have made Norway a driving force in international and regional cooperation – we have set a new national agenda. We have clarified our borders to all the neighbours of the sea, we have anchored our border with Russia, where we have the border from 1826 and the 2010 sea border, which entered into force in 2011. My point is, it's good that we're gathered around this. I would like to thank the Committee for a very good and interesting attitude. I would like to thank the chairperson for the work that has been done, and I would like to join the case rapporteur's opening statement that it is a privilege to have an opposition that wants more of the government's policy. Let me say it this way: Heia opposition! We want more like this opposition. The opposition has come on a good track when it follows that form of work. I would also like to say here that we have studied the proposals that have come from minorities and majority voting. The representative Kristiansen went through many of the suggestions that his party has made. Many of the proposals are very good. We're going to take them with the same attitude that I've now expressed, that we're behind this. This is also a bet for the whole country, as we heard from part of the Hedmark bench – enthusiastically for the northern regions. It's when we succeed in drawing all the resources, from north to south – not putting a line in the map and saying that it's only north of this that's the northern region – that we can succeed. And yet there is no other recipe for value creation, work, culture and prosperity in the north than elsewhere in the country. It's about a combination of work, capital, knowledge and political organisation. It is a hard work, stone on stone, that must be laid down. The representative Pedersen said that the policy is working, and we see results. I totally agree with that. I would like to emphasise that it is our ability to work in partnership that makes us successful – partnership between country and regional level – county and municipality – partnership between Norway and other countries and partnership between public and private. That's the way we can mobilise knowledge and experience and connect it with tools and drive things forward. Some representatives from the opposition believe that there are too few new measures. I note the suggestions that have been made, and I take them with me with great interest. I want to say that the way I experience it, this policy is filled with measures and ambitions. There are 100 paragraphs mentioned in that Communication and Strategy. I think it is a good approach to the policy that we are committed to implementing what we have started. There shall be crowns for crowns, work hands for work hands, and interest for interested persons shall be provided in order to draw this work forward. We're aware that we need to have a full focus on that. So it's that there might be a need for special measures in the north, and we need to focus on that. We now have a group studying shipping challenges related to the opening of the Arctic Ocean. We need to look at port capacities and traffic controllers, and there can certainly be areas where specific measures need to be taken. But I want to stress that we need to work through the National Transport Plan, we need to work through the overall management plans to lay the foundation for development in the North. Finally, I would like to emphasise that in the north, we also have the crossroads between foreign and security policy and what we can call domestic policy. I think it is a well-known theme for this committee and in these debates in the Grand Duchy that the two areas are interrelated. I think there are a few areas where this is more obvious than in the North Region policy. Almost every area has a point of contact with the regional and with the international. I want to return to a topic that I believe is a resource for Norway, namely Nordic cooperation. The Nordic countries are in many ways the hub of the regional – from the Baltic Sea via the Barents region to the Arctic – Nordic cooperation between us. It is these countries that are closest to us in understanding the challenges in the north. Among other things, mineral exploration has been mentioned. There we think in many ways in the same way across borders. I would like to join in what the representative, Mr Höglund, said that the vision for our cooperation with Russia – which I will not call a utopia, but a vision – is that it will be a normal neighbourly relationship. That's it, but if we're working on the focus and the targeting we've had in recent years, I think we can at least say that it's a vision that we can believe in, and that it's worth working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e315	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e318	What I can promise the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that the opposition will continue to be impatient with the government, press the government to fulfill what we deliver today. Then there is some form of frustration – as you can see, not least in parts of North Norway – about the lack of concrete action. I mentioned in my post the need for an extraordinary bet. Whether it is exceptional, or if it is only a stronger priority within the framework, one can discuss it, but does the Foreign Minister agree that there is now a need to achieve some concrete results, not least in the area of infrastructure, which means that we see the effects of this policy? This space for action concerns the coming years and must be reflected in the State budget to be submitted to the harvest and the forthcoming ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e326	I agree that strong action is needed in the north. I believe that this government has delivered – by significantly stepping up the investment in infrastructure in the north, through the national transport plan, and through a strengthened municipal economy, which gives municipalities the opportunity to develop this closely and closely. It is quite obvious that we are going to need new initiatives – but we need them throughout the country. I think we're doing the country a bear service by saying that there are extraordinary conditions in one region rather than in another. All regions of the country I travel to report exceptional circumstances. That's what local politicians do. I think everyone sees that if we're going to seize the potential that's in the north, we're going to be very alert to the need to develop our infrastructure and our knowledge capacity. I think we do, I think it's been time for a quite extraordinary development. The fact that it's an impatience, we're also taking it. Think about it the other way around, that there was no impatience with regard to the growth and development in the north, with the possibilities we have! That's where we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e335	Let me start by saying that I have no problem understanding that the Foreign Minister has visions and ambitions about taking the northern part of the country more into use than what you are doing today. It's important and, of course, absolutely necessary. But in order to benefit from those visions and ambitions, you depend on the details at a much lower level falling into place. Sometimes there's a little bit of detail to get a better use. Such a small detail is the opening time at the customs station Bjørnfjell at Narvik, which is a problem today. Some say that there is nothing more important than sending a dead salmon to the market. That's for sure, but for some it's about the most important thing in the world. The cost of extending the opening time is set at 1 million. kr per year. Here, the Ministry of Finance has for the time being held back. My challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What kind of solution does he see as one can find – together with the Minister for Finance – for this, which obviously costs little, but generates great values for the country of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e342	I am sure that in the years to come we will have increased capacity for cross-border transport in the north in general. The border stations must then be adapted accordingly. The rapporteur mentioned inter alia: Big Forest, which is a big challenge for us. This relatively modern border station is now becoming immature in terms of reality. I can promise the representative that we will follow all these stations very closely. This requires efforts from different departments and departments. I am sure that we will dimension these transitions according to the transport needs, so that we support both individuals and businessmen in the job they have, and so that they are not unduly hindered by the border crossings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e349	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for giving the opposition good character, as it – as he perceived it – will have even more of the government's policy in this area. This is a little in contrast to his harsh criticism of Northern Norwegian politicians. I allow myself to quote from the North Light some time ago. There the Minister for Foreign Affairs says: «When I travel here north, I meet a much more offensive attitude from business and the knowledge environment than I do from Nordic politicians. It would have strengthened the profile of the continent if we could also send united, shared political messages!’ Are there any special Nordic politicians having in mind, or is the whole bunch equally evil?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e361	I'm jokingly saying that this is a gross distortion of my relationship with Northern Norwegian politicians, which is as close as it can be. I think the case rapporteur, the representative of Höglund, presented similar reflections in his statement. It really just went on to reflect some of the things I experience on these trips, that in business and knowledge institutions now very strategically focussed on cross-border cooperation that was previously perceived as limited cooperation. I believe it is a reality in this large part of the country that there is a debate in the political, regional area about how this should be done. I have full respect for that. I would like to say that there is a lot of important community-building work going on internationally – when, among other things, we do. looks at the positioning of North Norway in Brussels – among the politicians in the north. I record that the play I had got many comments from different teams and from different political representatives, who said that this was a debate you could take. In the name of free vocabulary, I think this is a change of words you can bring with you politicians in the north, who don't want to talk straight out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e370	The Northern Region initiative is very often referred to as the potential arena, and the region is more often and more often lifted up as a part of the country of opportunity. We who live up there sometimes get a little feeling that now life starts, now life starts up there, while the review records that what happens in more central parts, that is, is a reality, and that it's a life that's being led. You may often try in the debate to distort it that nothing has happened in the north in the past. I and my ancestors for generations can confirm that it is wrong – we have lived there for a long time. We often record that questions are asked about whether that North-Area bet is correct, whether that is what we need, and what we get out of it. Now, the Council of State has been responsible for this investment for nearly seven years, and my question is: Does the Council of State think that the initiative and understanding of the Northern Region Initiative have been well anchored in the Northern Region?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e377	When I travel north, I have never thought that life has not begun there. I see that life is very lively, it's active, and it inspires everyone. Yes, I think this is very well anchored, and I think – if I am allowed to say so – that on the nearly 40 trips I have had in the course of this office, I experience a change in attitude to what opportunities lie in the north – owned in the north, incited in the north, created in the north. The samples we've drawn for expert selection have all been anchored in the north. The new selection had its first political-led meeting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday. I notice that when I meet regional politicians, when I meet municipal politicians, I meet an experience of ownership. That's the way it has to be, because the possibilities in the north are going to evolve in the north. But what is also joyous is that we see – as others have said here – that there is commitment to this throughout the country. I think that will be the great opportunity of northern Norway, that we can now draw on all knowledge and competence – Trondheim, Bergen, Arendal, Oslo, Lillehammer, everywhere – to mobilise the resources in the north. Ownership must be in the whole country, and I mean it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e386	Several have not asked for the word in reply – the representative Bakke-Jensen does, and he is given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e389	We think it is so important that at least we have to use the speaking time. Some of the problem around this is that when you're going to take a part of a country or a society further into a new development, you can – if you get too focused on what you're doing, which maybe we can blame Helga Pedersen for being in his post – forget what happened earlier. An important part of a development is that you have a collective memory of where you come from. North Norway as a part of the country is a very special part of the country. First, there is a diverse part of the country that lives in two peoples, and Finnmark that is the county of four tribes. It's important in every development to be able to think about the value base from which you come. In conservative thinking, it's about changing to preserve. When I have followed the debate in the north, it is actually that – in my opinion – you have often tried to erase what has happened earlier. It is often possible to get the impression that the northern regions started in 2005 and were then established. I think that's a little bit of the problem around the bet that's been in the last seven years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e398	I do not see the problem in the fact that in 2005 we had a strong acceleration of the Northern Region policy, allocated significantly more resources to it, formulated a strategy, strengthened the local economy and defined the strategy we have implemented step by step. But if there's one politician I've met that reminds me of the long lines in the north, it's the representative Pedersen, who is anchoring the policy of what are both traditions, potential, natural resources and knowledge. This message I have submitted begins by referring to the 2004–2005 Communication, which was presented by my predecessors – a good communication that provided a good basis for further debate. If we start putting lines in the map that say that's just what's happening north of this area, which are the northern regions, or lines in the calendar that say that it's just this that happened after a certain date, we lose an opportunity. I'd like to say that is a misconception of at least this government's inspiration: we're based on the long lines. Now that the industry is establishing itself in Harstad, Tromsø and north to drive development, nothing has happened from one month to another – it is something that has happened based on what has developed in Norway since the 1970s. So there's long lines we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e405	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e409	I think it's a very happy and good day we now have here in the Great Britain, when we get to debate one of our all, the most important political arenas, that have been and will be the future, and that we're going to take care of in a really good and tidy way. We have also had previous messages in the Stortinget where we have discussed this, and I think it is nice to experience that the 15 strategic areas that the government has listed in the communication have gained a very good connection also in the committee and have only become more elaborate. Everything is not only about development and prosperity in the north, but also the country too. I just want to stress that as a Westerner, I'm going to guarantee that we're as concerned with this message as those who live in the three northernmost states. It has a lot to say for the whole country how we develop this part of the country, how we manage the knowledge of the areas, how we manage the natural environment, and how we do it in a sustainable, real, clean and good way. I was a little surprised at some of the posts that are pulling this down a lot, and I'm going to come back to it: but I have to say that when we see an increase in the country's territory over the last four years in 9,000 people, while in the last 20 years there were only 13 people in population growth, it's happy. We also see another trend that has turned around: earlier, when there was growth in the country, there was a decline in North Norway. It's turned around. It's optimism, it's vision for the future, and I think we should take this into account now to the greatest extent possible. But why has this great interest in the country now increased significantly? Well, that's because of what's happening in the north and on the climate side. Climate change has increased activities in the north and places Norway and, in particular, Russia as well as our other neighbouring countries and partners facing new challenges, not least in the area of security and preparedness challenges. But the challenge is how we're going to manage this beautiful region and build it together into growth and benefit for all of us. However, the Communication also points to increased access to North Sea resources and new opportunities for shipping that lead to increasing interest, of course, and the exploitation of the major natural resources in the Arctic region. It is natural, and Norway should have a leading role in the various areas here. We have to prevent, and we have to be 'on' first to really put things in place. We are also going to do this in cooperation with our neighbours and our allies. I have to say I was somewhat surprised by the Christian People's Party posts here a little while ago, when it was said that nothing happened in the north, that we had to be more concrete, etc. Then I'm going to list up for the Christian People's Party things for which they haven't been any proponents: it's the mapping of natural resources in the areas, in the Barents Sea. Where was the Christian People’s Party? I have experienced them as a brake in most areas. The government went immediately when the border agreement with Russia came into place, starting to explore the area, how it was arranged. We've said something about Jan Mayen and how we're going to explore the resources there. We have launched ports for new oil base with industry standards etc. We were the first government to put forward a management plan for the whole of the Barents Sea. It's the first time it's happened. Where, then, was the Christian People’s Party? I've experienced them as brakes in all of these areas. This is just to take a few examples of being on, we're offensive, we're driving things forward, and that government and we in the Workers' Party are asking for now, is that we are moving forward in these processes in a proper, sound and environmentally correct way. It is also important to see what agreements we have with our neighbours in this area in order to manage it properly and in a good way. It is also important that we exercise sovereignty and authority in the north in a credible, consistent and predictable way. Let's do that, for example. in the Long-Term Plan of Defence. We have done so with regard to the appropriations for defence: five new frigates, etc., just to take care of these areas in a credible and proper way. What do we do to Russia with the management of fishing resources to achieve this? Well, we're on and we're making agreements to get it done. I remember both the representative Svendsen and others that in 2009 and 2010 there was no overfishing, among other things. of cod and hake, and the checks have been carried out in a good and orderly manner. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] This is an example for follow-up, and we're going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e430	It is good that there is no overfishing of cod and haze, but there should be no over-exploitation of speaking time!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e433	It would have been tempting to start with a comment to the foreign minister who boasted of the opposition and how the opposition worked. It could be a good lesson to bring with you after the next big shot, maybe. But I'll leave it there for another time. The good thing about the debate today is the commitment and diversity, no matter what dialect you bring with you when you get into the hall. I think that's a quality in itself. There is no doubt that this communication is initially about the northern regions. When we look at our map and Norway's position on the globe, most of it's north, really. When we look at our summers, even in this part of the country and further north, it often seems as if they're quite short, and there's a lot of north, both climatic and otherwise. I think the most important thing to do with the message is to focus on the possibilities. The Nordics no longer look at themselves, or see themselves, as tenants in their own part of the country. Hopefully that time is over. I think many Northerners with great interest and a certain admiration have looked to the West, looked at what has been done in the West and up against the Trondelags in terms of nutrient development, opportunities and oil and gas. So you've thought, "When will it be our turn?" When are we going to be in on this? The last thing to do is to create a regime that is 70 pst.–80 pst. of the county becomes something you put a pipeline past. If there's any northerners want now, it's getting involved. When we heard about this message, there was one unisoned message that went on: Give us the possibilities – it's itself in relation to education, to transportation and to recruitment. People want to stay in North Norway still. Deportation grants are not affected in this message – there is no need for them. I think that by letting the county take part in its own possibilities, we're going to see a reverse problem, namely that many of the northern people who have chosen to live elsewhere are going to turn around and move home again. In fact, you want to live in the part of the country you come from. It could be that the Nordtun representative in his earlier days, when he ends here, might see that some of his neighbours with the northern dialect actually choose to move back to the part of the country they come from. That's some of the point, as I think of it. Something else that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in on, which I share 100 p.m., is that you have to be pretty bad in Norwegian communication and more if you don't understand Norwegian politicians. You can blame them too much, but they're hard to understand, so they're basically not -- whether you agree with them or fundamentally disagree with them -- you usually do. I had the pleasure of a few years ago to travel around in Finnmark across the board. Finnmark is a fantastic state – at least at the level of Nordland, to say it carefully! I learned a concept in the churches during a meeting with some travel people, like the talk of 'Tjuk-Norway'. They talked about the challenges with ‘Tjuk-Norway’. 'Thick-Norway' doesn't need any detailed description, I think, because it's pretty easy to understand. But the challenges were described in the Church's that when «Thyk-Norway» looked for opportunities, ambitions and visions, you looked south. Then you expect that when you stand here and look south, you turn your back to North Norway. That was pointed out as a concern. I'm not saying that's the way it is: I'm saying that this message is doing something about it, but we still have some challenges. I believe that cooperation in the northern part of the country can continue to improve. The National Subcommittee, which for some years worked tolerably well, would say, does not work as well today. Then there is a certain danger of getting an internal competition, even though the representative Pedersen has said that they have met in Bodø and agreed on many cases. At the same time, there is no doubt that in all cases of some form of localisation, there will be a form of political ‘warring’ if one can use such a concept. It is natural, because politics is about exploiting opportunities, but it is also about family-to-family competition, from border to border, from municipality to municipality and from region to region. That's it. And last of all, we're in this room that premises what it's going to be like. I also think that many of the states of North Norway are doing very well themselves. I refer briefly to Northland, which was the first county to set up the Patient Ombudsman scheme, and the first county to set up the Student Ombudsman scheme – by the way, he is present in the room now. If I don't remember correctly, they were the first to set up offices in Brussels, because they saw that the U.D. and the system were not good enough – they didn't optimise the possibilities they wanted. That's why you grabbed yourself. The northerners are quite capable of many things, but waiting we're not so good at, although we can be a little careful of ourselves. The point is: let the people of the north take part in the opportunities that lie there. By letting the northerners take part, I'm absolutely sure of one thing, and that's that the Northern Norwegian hospitality is going to make sure that everyone gets part of the total cake afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e452	In 2011, there was a jubilee for all those who are concerned with oil and gas that is driving north development. New, promising findings in the Barents Sea in 2011 have resulted in Statoil finally establishing a fifth fully-fledged operating environment, Drift Nord, and expanding its Harstad office to a complete oil centre. New operating organisations and purchasing functions in the region are creating greater proximity to the supplier industry, which we know can be of great importance. Statoil's decision was celebrated throughout the country. Hopefully the decision will be the final turning point for an industry with significant potential also in the north. Aker Solutions’ bet in Tromsø is also an expression of faith in the north. Good news for North Norway is good news for the country. Increased petroleum resources contribute to building under Norwegian welfare. It's short between big words in the north, and there's no lack of vision at all. On the other hand, the concrete measures are longer. Population developments in large parts of the country are still not good reading, and from the Right we will stress the importance of more measures both in the short and long term. Smooth, high search activity and exploration of new areas are important to arouse the interest of more oil companies and to make even more findings. The forecasts for both the Barents Sea and Northland VI, VII and Troms II indicate that there are several taxes hidden below the sea level. It is important that optimism in the north is dawning. Fishing and aquaculture are doing well, and travel life now seems to be breaking the full year’s code, filling up hotel beds and making money on activities even in winter. However, it is not possible to undermine the fact that the greatest expectations for growth in employment are linked to the ring-fence of new oil and gas findings. In the wake of this, it is now a dawning debate whether it is wise or not to build a gas pipeline that connects the Barents Sea on the pipeline further south. For the Right, it is important to create maximum ring-effects of this industry. Although industrial projects are being developed that can defend leading gas to land, the quantities of gas assumed to be in the Barents Sea are so significant that large parts of the gas have to be exported anyway. Here it must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. This means further work must be done on projects for local industrial exploitation of the gas, taking into account gas pipes to the south that can lower the threshold and contribute to the profitability and expansion of even smaller Barents gasfields. Such a two-part approach is likely to provide the largest ring-effects in the region over time. It's precisely this North Region effort, how we're going to develop the northernmost part of the country and the natural resources we find there, for the benefit of all of us. North Norway needs more legs to stand on and a greater diversity of jobs. At the same time, improved infrastructure is an essential prerequisite for the further development and competitiveness of business. National transport plans need to channel more resources that provide both land, water and air for the region. Routes in the national part of the country are a chapter, both in terms of route provision and price level and rules to prevent growth. Competence building must be a key strategy in the north. Training of skilled labour at all levels is essential to realise the opportunities in the north. Universities, together with colleges, must assume a primary responsibility in this context. Upgrading of engineering training in Narvik to include mining is important to develop the mineral industry in the north. I am very pleased that a Joint Committee is now supporting the Hierre's earlier initiative to facilitate a Russian language programme in the north, which ensures good learning skills and continuous running where students can start with and expect to continue with Russian up in the education system. It is also time to provide the Norwegian-Russian secondary school in Murmansk with solid support of the State budget, in line with the Moscow School, which is located in Moscow – a small but important and visible measure. Good Russian knowledge is important for stimulating trade and contacts between countries — and for much more Nordic, Norwegian, young people to take up the challenge of studying in Russia. While Russian students in Norway are the largest single group of foreign students, very few Norwegian students travel the other way. We have to do something about this, given that Russia is an increasingly important local market for many Norwegian industries. It's a dawning optimism in the north. But the heavy trend in the export of youth, the future, takes time to turn around. It is therefore important that central authorities become more concrete, play with local and regional politicians. That ball's going to take North Norwegian politicians. Then I think many more young people will also have faith in a future in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e480	Since the northern regions are not confined to Norwegian areas on land and to water, I will try to touch on a slightly different aspect than the one that has been debated so far. It is linked to the delegation of the Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, which is new during this great period. The setting-up of the European Parliament’s delegation was based on the desire to raise awareness of developments in the Arctic also in the Grand Duchy. And there is considerable attention — and increasing attention — to the north and the Arctic also internationally, not least based on the large resources available in the area, and the opportunities for value creation that are opening up, related to technological development, a higher demand for raw materials on the world market and climate change, which make it possible to make use of opportunities other than before. In the delegation we are pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence expressed in its statement that the creation of the delegation has contributed to an increased commitment and interest in Arctic issues in the Stortinget. I join the representative Kristiansen's boast by the head of the delegation, the representative of Höglund, who has not only made a good impression here today, but is doing a good job as head of the delegation, and who also professes to be the head of the Standing Committee of Parliamentarians of the Arctic Region, which is a circular association of parliamentarians. In this way, we can say that we have succeeded in many ways in the goal of the delegation. I also share the Committee's view that there is a need for increased Arctic parliamentary cooperation. Both in the hall here, in the message and everywhere you move – whether in North Norway or in other parts of the north – there is dialogue, cooperation and low voltage that are the key chords. The Committee points out that there is an increasing international interest in a number of vital issues in Arctic areas. Parliamentarians have the opportunity to be drivers and take new policy initiatives in a slightly more freer way than representatives of different governments. For the Arctic delegation, raising new topics on the agenda and on which the Committee points out, as mentioned in the debate, may be an important complement to the work of the Arctic Council. I am therefore pleased that the Committee sees the need to prioritise this work in the future as well. I would also, on behalf of the Workers' Party, express support for Höglund's remarks that getting more observers into the Arctic Council will be a strength for the work that is going on there. We are pleased that the Government of Great Britain expresses a desire to strengthen the parliamentary dimension in the pursuit of Norway's interests in the northern regions. In the delegation we meet the work and initiatives notified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the light of the fact that all the representatives have received the annual report from the delegation and that we are discussing Meld. St. 7 for 2011–2012, I would like briefly to mention the tenth Arctic Parliamentary Conference, which will be held in Iceland in the autumn. There are three issues that will be at the heart of the discussions and for which today's debate provides important premise as to the position of the Norwegian delegation. The first theme is related to the Arctic cooperation of the future. Arctic advice is in an exciting phase of major changes. We have succeeded in obtaining international support for the establishment of a secretariat in Tromsø. It shall be operational for the Ministerial Meeting in May 2013. The first legally binding agreement between the Arctic countries, on search and rescue in the northern regions, was signed at the recent ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in Nuuk last year. Parliamentarians will discuss these developments and give their thoughts on how the further development of cooperation should take place. Just as the Storing Communication focuses on dialogue and low voltage in the area, it is important for many of the international actors. The second theme is the major economic opportunities, in particular related to natural resources, but also to shipping and maritime routes, along with climate change, which contribute to changes in the region and to the people living there. Important issues related to this will be issues of sound management and sustainable exploitation of natural resources, as well as adaptation to the notified climate change. There is reason to note that the Norwegian development of overall management plans raises international concern and a significant international interest in this approach to approaches to management issues. The third theme will be related to the living conditions of the people living in the Arctic. Unlike Antarctica, there are a significant number of people living in these areas. What is also unique to the region is precisely the triangle between government, science and indigenous peoples, which provides the best conditions for managing the Arctic in a good way in the future — continuing through dialogue — thereby contributing both to anchoring and to low tension in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e501	I agree with Mr Höglund that a broad political consensus – yes, indeed unanimity – is a strength, because broad political consensus ensures the long lines of this policy, as it has done for other important parts of Norwegian foreign and security policy. The shift in the north, from the front line between east and west to an area of cooperation on resource use, environmental considerations, knowledge, work and value creation, started with the fall of the Berlin Wall. It also underlines the involvement of Norway in the European integration process. The 1993 Barents Cooperation, the 1996 Arctic Council, the Bondevik Government’s 2004 Annual Report and the two previous communications of this government show that Northern Region Policy already has 20 years of history to point to. Dynamics is enhanced year by year. It has produced many and important results. Perhaps the most important task has been to place Norway in the driver’s seat in an area where many and far larger countries have their own interests, and how many more see that what happens in the north can be of great strategic interest to them too. We did this. The fact that the permanent secretariat of the Arctic Council is going to be in Tromsø is a tangible proof of this, and I agree with Morten Höglund that the interest in observer status from many countries in this forum must be seen as an expression of the relevance of the Council and of the growing importance of this area. Major milestones in the Northern Region policy have passed. The most important, a clarification of the borderline with Russia in the Barents Sea, has opened up a comprehensive survey of oil and gas resources in this vast area and is the start of a new era in Norwegian oil and gas history. Cross-border cooperation with Russia is accelerating and requires a rapid solution to the infrastructure of Storskog. The border residence certificate and a future even lighter visa situation will further strengthen cooperation beyond this limit, which 20 years ago was filled with a completely different type of tension. In 1996, as rapporteur in Fredrikstad, I was visiting Kirkenes to study conversion. The mine was closed. The opportunity was high. Pessimism was great. Today, the Church's workforce is lacking. It says everything about what results, what opportunities and what optimism have been created. One of the important reasons Norway has to be in the driving position in this area is that the environment is being taken into account by others. Few places are more vulnerable to the environment than in the north. Few places see more clearly the consequences of climate change. If unused resources at sea and on land are to be a blessing, extraction must be environmentally sound. If not, the successful management of living resources in the sea could quickly be lost. It will be an accident and destroy one of the world's most important maritime mattresses. I guess the opposition didn't think it had done its job if it didn't have anything to criticize. It calls for concrete results from the Northern Region policy. There's a lot of them. Looking at Chapter 2 of the Communication, it lists more than 100 concrete results and actions that are fully operational. So the opposition criticises the government for not being concrete enough, for example. promising roads and railways in the north. In that case, this is a criticism that equally affects them. There is no trace of binding promises from the opposition in this setting either, although the representative Ivar Kristiansen listed many good things Right wants to go north of roads, railways, ports and air routes. That makes sense, because it is in the usual processes – budgets and long-term plans – that we are going to do those priorities. The opposition then claims that the government places the label ‘north-area policy’ on a large and small scale – even so-called ordinary issues in the budgets – among other things. The representative Svendsen pointed to in his statement. In this case, it is also a criticism that affects them themselves, because in this setting, there are some places where the opposition goes to work quite in detail, for example. in the fight against high school drop-outs and how the need for engineers can be better met. The representative of Ellingsen took in a reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, raising the opening time at the customs office in Narvik. This illustrates that ‘everything is related to everything’, quoting a former Prime Minister. Building on the opportunities for both northern and northern communities and the rest of the country to take advantage of the opportunities to strengthen work and value creation requires a great deal of action and action. It takes action and action in many areas if we are to succeed. But then, too, many of the elements of most aspects of our society – from education to health and from infrastructure to foreign policy – become pieces of the puzzle that must be put in order for us to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e534	Northern land and sea areas – or northern areas – are incredibly rich in resources. Many believe that here we may find as much as a quarter of the remaining oil and gas resources in the world. In the north, there are also some of the world's richest marine resources, which, thanks to good governance by the government, provide us with a recurring opportunity to harvest an ever-renewable and fantastic nutrient resource. In addition, we know that it's in the north that we find the richest mineral resources in the country. Against this background, the government has launched an important monitoring exercise aimed at providing a strategy for a comprehensive commitment to the mineral industry. We who live in the north are living in a region where nature has provided us abundantly, and with round hands. However, I would like to talk about perhaps the most important resource: the people who live on all sides of different borders in the north. It is people who, through changing times and political regimes, have linked the most important links in the north through close people-to-people cooperation in the fields of culture, education, voluntary organisations, as well as locally and regionally initiated health and social cooperation actions. This cooperation takes place mainly in the north but is relevant to the whole nation. In order to make use of human resources, education and research are crucial. The government therefore emphasises that different programmes and activities integrate the Northern Region perspective. The International Polar Year mobilised significant national and international resources and was part of this work. Svalbard is a particularly important platform for Arctic research, and Svalbard Science Forum is established as a coordinating and information body for research logistics on the island group. Svalbard Research Park in Longyearbyen co-locates R & D institutions here, and the Norwegian and foreign stations in New Ålesund are important to develop research cooperation in the long term. Cultural cooperation has long traditions in the north. It has provided a good basis for the developments we see in the field today. Government's commitment to cross-border cultural cooperation has facilitated another form of integrated cultural cooperation compared to what we saw just a few years ago. The artists in the north are not just visiting each other, but creating and producing artistic projects together – on all sides of the border of the region. A little heartache: If Norway’s sports association had been equally ambitious on behalf of sports opportunities in the north as cultural life is, perhaps the sports map would have looked different, and the big stakes would have been distributed slightly different from what we unfortunately see today. It has been said that the greatest health differences in the world are found if we look at the area that is shared by the border between Norway and Russia. Therefore, cooperation in the field of health and child protection in the north is of the utmost importance. This cooperation has also changed its character. The work is now being done from the point of view of the cohabitation and the height of the face. It is a win-win situation and has built competence and new knowledge for both parties over the years. I don't think we should underestimate northern cooperation in the health and social field – it's absolutely crucial for everything we're going to do in the north, that we succeed in this area. The original population perspective is well taken care of in the Northern Region Communication. It states that it is important that the indigenous peoples of the north should be able to participate in all regional processes and decisions, develop their culture, language, traditional ways of feeding, and have equal opportunities to live well in the northern regions in the future. Also in the government’s Northern Region Strategy of 2009, several measures have been promoted for the development of good knowledge and competences for indigenous peoples. It provides evidence of Sami traditional knowledge, cultural enterprise development programmes, the development of digital infrastructure for indigenous languages and the strengthening of Sami culture and Sami institutions. The joy — and perhaps a surprise — is that an overall committee, including the Progress Party, adheres to the principles set out in the Northern Territory Communication for indigenous policy. In view of them – let's say – more special plays that the Progress Party has often joined in this area, among other things. in this room, we might hope that this represents a new orientation from the party in terms of indigenous policy. That's good news in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e553	Through strong involvement with the northern regions, the government has made a good contribution to the importance of the northern regions. North Norway today is characterized by optimism and belief in the future. The region has large natural resources at sea, below sea level, on land and in the mountains. In addition, we have an increasing tourist flow to the county. Thanks to the government's focus and its positive involvement, the interest in the northernmost part of the country is now greater than ever before, both nationally and internationally. I have recently received an opinion from a joint county meeting of the KS in the three northernmost counties, as the representative Helga Pedersen also pointed out. Here, the local involvement and involvement of the management of the national resources are clearly emphasised. KS in the north says that this must be done through political interaction and constructive cooperation with commercial interests, involving the Nordic business community more strongly. In this opinion, the KS also points out that there must be a clear pre-requisite that the resources of the district are creating even more local ring-effects. We have to listen to such signals. I am one of those who have great expectations of what the petroleum activity will also give the northernmost part of the country, but this condition that we can see significant ring-effects. In this way, I have to say that the decisions that Statoil has recently made on important locations in the north are very positive signals both to other companies and to other businesses. They show faith in the part of the country. We also know that in the Norse mountains it hides mineral resources of very great value. These large resources must be ensured equal to the petroleum resources. The fishing industry, the farming industry in the north and the Arctic have advantages and opportunities that need to be exploited even better in value creation. Competences and framework conditions are needed to exploit this great potential even better. If we're going to exploit the huge resources that exist in the north, we're dependent on a strong investment in infrastructure. The government’s efforts in the transport sector have contributed to significant improvements also in the north, but much remains to be done to facilitate even better value creation. This applies to roads, maritime transport, ports, air services, railways, etc., as several have mentioned. From the Labour Party, we also have a major focus on the need for competence in the country. It is a major task to encourage young people to choose a training course that is requested in the national context and which gives them access to important labour. Let me end by pointing out the great importance of culture and sport for housing and well-being. In the north, too, we need to be able to organise local, regional, national and international activities, in line with the rest of the country. I thought it was a great disappointment when the sports wrecked the largest town in North Norway that applied for the Olympics, as was the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen. Neither could the football World Cup until the second largest city in the country could become a reality. And I ask, does there need to be a change of mind here? The next option to put the continent on the map is the stage ride on the bike, the Arctic Race of Norway. This will be a major and important highlight in the northern regions, and I hope that together we can facilitate that this can be an annual event with attention far beyond the borders of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e574	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e577	In 1993, as a young AUF, I was to attend the annual meeting at the Troms Arbeiderpartei. Little did I know that this meeting, at the Scandic Hotel in Tromsø, was going to be historic. That was when Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorvald Stoltenberg launched Barents' cooperation. Barents' cooperation was the start of a new era for the northern regions. We resumed contact with Russia after 70 years of closed borders, and Barents' cooperation led to an increased focus on business, research and culture. It was a growing and dawning optimism in the north, which just continued over the next few years, and now we're actually taking it as a matter of course that Tromsø will win the Tippeliga. So strong has the optimism become! The red-green government re-launched the agenda when the northern regions were designated as the main strategic focus. And I have to say that I think it's funny when I meet the opposition to debate after debate about the bet in the north and what's happened in the last seven years, and I hear a sustained pause – it's possible it's not a parliamentary expression – that too little happens. For what is reality really? So when we took over in 2005, there was a proposal for a cut in the field of transport from the Bondevik II government. In the NTP period we're now in, we triple the investments in the north. We are making a major effort in the field by area, but we also share the impatience to do more about the infrastructure in the north, because it is crucial if we are to be able to continue to focus on value development. Ofotbanen, there's a lot of people here who've been inside. We need to increase the capacity of Ofotbanen as soon as possible; user funding is an important keyword. We need to continue the upgrading of the E6, which the whole region has been busy with. We have to look at the airport structure. And then, in the context of the debate that has been going on on on the North-East Passage lately, I would like to say, luckily, we have national politicians and representatives of the business community who see the importance of positioning Norway for an opening. The opening of the north-east pass, which is probably much closer in time than any of us can imagine, is going to be absolutely crucial for the further development in the north, and Norway already has to position itself and now build an infrastructure for this. This is precisely why we have also carried out a North-Area investigation in the context of the next national transport plan, which is crucial in the context of the work on the next NTP. If I wasn't a maternity worker, I was at least present at the beginning of Barents' cooperation. The government's north-eastern notification offers that the continuation will be even more exciting and even more decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e591	The Nordic regions are the country's main strategic focus, and it is an overall goal of the Centre Party and the Government to facilitate increased value creation in the north. This is of great importance to Norway as a nation, and it is a clear and explicit objective that north development should also benefit the people of the north. This provides great opportunities for our country, for the northern part of the country, and not least for young people in the north. There is no doubt that increased access to natural resources such as oil, gas and minerals — and climate change leading to new heading towards the east — are the main drivers of this development. This, together with an increasing human activity, is now drawing the northern regions as a region of considerable geopolitical interest, a new geopolitical centre. The Northern areas continue to have military strategic interest, and it is therefore very important that, in the future, defence has an increasing focus on solving its tasks in the north, as the new long-term defence plan has as its target. The Barents Sea is set to become an important European energy region. Petroleum supplies from this region will be able to strengthen European energy security and make important contributions to the world’s energy supply, while providing ground for industrial and service development in the northern part of the country. The establishment of Statoil's fifth operating area in Harstad and Aker Solutions' establishment in Tromsø are good examples of this, and we are very concerned about getting to a further development – as we now see. The aim is that the investment in oil, gas and minerals will give a new industrial in the north. Together with traditional industries such as industry, fisheries and aquaculture, arctic agriculture and tourism, the region faces great opportunities for development. The efforts we now see give optimism and confidence in the future for young people in the north. The choice of education can be crucial for finding a job in North Norway and for creating an exciting future in the region. The government's vision of exploiting the opportunities in the north can only be realized if we have people with competence to perform all the tasks that are needed both in private enterprises and in public enterprises. There is a shrieking lack of most forms of real science competence. In particular, the lack of engineers is great. Therefore, youth education choices in the north are very important in order to reach the visions of the Northern Region initiative. I have great faith that the youth of the continent is now taking advantage of all the new opportunities as they set out the course for their own future and their own choice of education. It will have a major impact on the development of the north, much more than all the other measures taken together — making use of opportunities, choices, contributing to the start-up and growth of the industry already established in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e610	As a representative of our northernmost state, it is nice to be involved in the handling of a big message that will have a great impact on my part of the country, not least on my home country. As many have experienced, Finnmark has evolved from being a geographical edge to becoming a geopolitical centre of international policy. In the middle of it, I live, and it's no wonder that you're a little proud. The content of the message makes an even stronger belief that tomorrow's Finnmark will be different from today. It gives hope, and it creates optimism. In stark contrast to the rapporteur's comments on this matter, it was a little strange to hear the comments of the representative Kristiansen and his claim that North Norway is falling behind. I myself live in the part of the country, as mentioned, and in the state in which I live, I notice that developments in recent years have been incredibly positive. It has created optimism, it has created a belief in the future. I see in my everyday life that something is happening. Every day there is something new, and new measures are underway. People are optimistic, they have hope for the future, and perhaps the most important thing is that they contribute strongly to population growth, to increase birth rates in the region. As the old rapporteur in Alta said in his day, it is best that we make our kids ourselves. That's good, and that's a good picture of believing in the future. What I'm responding to is that despite the fact that the population has such a belief that is now made visible through statistics and also through meetings with the people, it is claimed from this pulpit that we are slowing down. I'd like to ask the question, what is it we're slowing down on? I think we're going forward. It's my anchoring in what's going on. As important as sitting and looking forward — on which this message is actually a picture — it is also a little important to look back at what happened a few years ago, as we did not have the political anchoring against the continent that today’s government has. We experienced in my home country a wave of bankruptcy all along the coast. What was Erna Solberg's answer to that then? The find markers need to figure out something other than fish. Bondevik II did not respond with a new policy, but with a new crisis package. It was not to be made available to the state's own politicians. A separate group of experts would be set up to do something, which is evaluated in retrospect. It is quite amazing that the Right Representatives are now talking about bad anchoring of the North Region policy in the North. I think it would have been reasonable for the representatives of the Right to look back before they criticise this message – which has the hope for the future and the faith in the future in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e621	In political debates, one can sometimes get the impression that the opposition role is simply to complain about the policy of the position. Fortunately, we are now living in a country where it is not. Norwegian policies in general — and foreign policy in particular — are characterised by considerable consensus. But it's now that it's up to the opposition to show other directions, whether the opposition thinks they have it, and it's up to the opposition to describe the experience of the adopted policy of the position. I feel that there is a great deal of the debate we have today – the opposition describes the experience of the policy adopted by the position. In fact, here I also believe that we are at the heart of the debate on the further development of the north and the part of the country. I think the Foreign Minister is very right when he points to the challenging work it is to merge foreign and domestic policies. I also believe that some of the key is that you succeed in that bundling in the further bet. The annual lists under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget which, with varying certainty, frame the appropriations allocated to the north, calling it the North Region bet, are not suitable for anchoring in bets. So you have to try to do this in other ways. I think it is important that the various departments can refer to their appropriations, to their programmes, and that these are targeted programmes which can show concrete commitment. I may have been perceived as negative in some of the debates that have been on the North Region Initiative. I'm not. I am very positive about the bet, and I am even going to stretch as far as – I record that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is being shocked – to say that I am optimistic on behalf of this government's Northern Region bet now and the message that is available. I think there's very, very good. But then impatience is one of my most important characteristics, and so I don't intend to put off myself as a Finnish land politician for this house. That's why I'm going to stress that we need a lift in the North – we have so many good examples that we haven't done it yet. We need an infrastructure lift in the north – we have so many concrete examples that we haven't quite reached it yet, and we haven't described what we need. I would like to conclude by saying that I have not heard any politicians who have expressed themselves negatively in relation to the logistics centre in the churches and the investment that has been there. It's a good project. They can already show good results. It is not the initiative taken by business people and politicians to create the logistics centre, which has been at the centre of the debate. That's other stuff.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e638	As so many others have said, the North Region Initiative is the main strategic project of the Red-Green Government. Over the nearly seven years the red-green government has been sitting, we have seen great changes. The most obvious success criterion is the agreement on the maritime divider line between Norway and Russia. It's world-class political craftsmanship, and the craftsman's name is Jonas Gahr Støre. Thank you very much to him! We also see that positive things happen in other areas. We've made an economic development in the border areas against Russia that it's going to be exciting to follow. As a Finnish mark, I note the optimism, the belief in the future, and not least that the people of the north have regained faith in the opportunities for development in our area. One might say that it's a strengthened Northern Norwegian self-image you're seeing now. We have resources in piles of north: fish, minerals, oil, gas, and not least huge area for wind power, industrial development, or whatever. The fact that we are living in a beautiful nature that makes mental health good and tourists enviable is another advantage. Right now in these times we have an adventurous cod fishing outside Troms and Finnmark. The cod population has never been in as good a condition as it is now, in over 60 years. The reason for this is, among other things: that illegal fishing of cod and hake was not recorded in 2009 and 2010 in the Barents Sea, and that is fantastic. Yes, we are both lucky and resource-rich, but these resources have been well managed by the authorities, and this wisdom pays off now. We have even had so wise politicians in our country that our natural resources have benefited all the inhabitants of the country. In many resource-rich countries in the world, this is not the case. The values of the Community have enriched the elites of the country and have not increased the prosperity of ordinary people. As a Finnish mark, I am satisfied with what has happened in the last seven years: dividing line, international agreement on search and rescue in Arctic areas – there is something similar working on oil protection in this area – increased activity related to oil and gas and the government's 100 million bet. kr for mineral screening. The driver of this is the government's clear bet on the north areas. The increasingly open borders of Russia have had some invaluable diplomats in long-term action and have contributed to more transparency through the people-to-people cooperation that has been between Finnmark and North-West Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e649	I said in my main post that the most important resource in the north is neither oil nor cod, but the people. I pointed out that the message adds to a commitment that knowledge should be the hub of the Northern Region policy. Unfortunately, the time was running out, so I continue to point out some of the concrete knowledge efforts that the government has made. The government has built the Progress Centre in Tromsø – a big initiative to be an international leading centre in climate research. The North Region Centre of the University of Nordland, Bodø, the Barentsinstitute in Kirkenes is built up, and seed funds are established, among others. Many here in the debate have underlined optimism in the north, and we also believe that this is all reason to be optimistic. SV believes that there is a high potential in North Norway for investing in mineral resources, maritime nutrition, bio-prospecting, renewable energy deployment, wind, waves, tidal energy, industrial development based on energy supply rather than exports southwards, and not least increased investment in tourism industries. Then I want to drop right a visit. The right has sent in articles to the newspapers, where Ivar Kristiansen and Ine M. Eriksen Soreide are calling for a stronger investment on roads and money for food development in the north, and the representatives Kristiansen and Bakke-Jensen have called for the same thing here. But, as has been said, the north area message is not a transport plan for North Norway. The Government shall provide a transport plan for the whole country in one year, with north-centralisation. I would like to point out that the bet on roads, maritime transport and rail in the north is on a completely different level now than when the bourgeois crashed. We have invested extra in the development of travel life in the north through increased subsidies, and contributed to a northern Norse gathering in Nordic travel life – not to mention that we have got another eight years agreement on Hurtigruta, which could have been cool, but which instead sails on as a flagship for Norwegian and, not least, Nordic travel life, so successful that people sit around the world and follow the boat trip minute by minute. More government money for business development in the north are exciting thoughts from the Right, which in their budgets cut billions to food development in the north. By removing the allocation for regional development, the Right takes EUR 561 million. kr of the money spent this year to create new jobs and skills development in the three northernmost counties. They also cut other efforts at innovation and innovation in the districts – half to two billion for the construction of businesses in the north and other districts – and distribute in the form of major reliefs in property taxes and the removal of inheritance taxes, which are largely due to the improved citizenship of cities in the south.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e662	A clearly defined strategic objective of the Northern Region policy is that Norway should be the leader in knowledge of, for and in the North. Both the University of Narvik and the University of Nordland in Bodø are key knowledge institutions in this picture. The University of Narvik has, among others: through research launches in the north, developed to be the country leader in cold-climate technology. It is exciting that in 2011, the university established a Northern Area Technology Centre. Strengthening this research is very important. The message itself states: ‘The Government is committed to strengthening Bodø as a centre for the development of knowledge about business opportunities in the northern regions, and in particular related to cooperation with Russian environments of competence and business.’ It's both an important and a correct signal. At the same time, the notification is not mandatory in relation to this point, but it may come to light subsequently. The Nordic Centre for Enterprise at the University of Nordland has developed very positively since its launch in 2007. The Centre is currently a knowledge leader in Norway in the Russian oil and gas industry. It is clear to me that the Northern Region Centre must be further developed as part of the strategic effort on knowledge in the North. The centre must therefore enter as a fixed item on the state budget in my opinion. In Report. St. 28 for 2010-2011, the notification of petroleum, has been assessed as establishing a research centre for petroleum activities in arctic strokes. This centre is also mentioned in the State budget. In a press release from the Ministry of Oil and Energy of 6 October 2011, it is named among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The active government’s commitment to the mapping and opening of new sea areas for petroleum activities in the north requires the building and development of new knowledge. The Government will therefore explore in 2012 the possibility of setting up a research centre dedicated to petroleum activities in Arctic regions.» This is great and an incredibly good starting point. The establishment and location of the Centre will, of course, be the subject of political priorities. I believe that it will be right in relation to the ambitions of the Northern Region policy, that this centre will be located in North Norway, and that the hub for this centre will be located at the University of Northern Ireland. Such a centre may generate a number of jobs. Not least in the light of the proposal on the long-term plan of defence, Bodø should have a natural advantage in setting up such a research centre. I see that the time is running out, but: Petroleum activities are already creating positive ring-effects in the north, and in more findings it will also give more activity and more jobs and local ring-effects to those who live there. Then I'm not least thinking about what's going to happen in the future also in Northern Ireland, with Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e687	As this big message emerges, the government is incredibly little committed to it. Instead of being concrete and clarifying, the whole message seems more like a mist without real substance. I'm going to try to be something more concrete and want to detect some great paradoxes. In 2009, the Progress Party promoted proposals on the Stortinget to allow full-year oil transhipment in Bøkfjorden by Kirkenes. This voted down the government parties. There was an agreement here between ConocoPhillips, Russian Lukoil and Ship Cargo Kirkenes with a total framework of 6.4 billion. NOK, which would have given South Varanger municipality alone 250 million. SEK in income during the period as well as many jobs. The rejection was based on national salmon rivers and the environment. The third largest industrial agreement concluded in Finnmark was not desirable for the government. On the other hand, the Tschudi group got a contract to reload condensate in Honningsvåg, but so far for the current year it has not completed a single reload. In the same period of time, we see that perhaps the worst polluter in Europe, Norilian Nickel, once again goes to production based on the east death ore and uses Norway and South Varanger as a garbage dung. The greatest unsolved challenge in our cooperation with Russia today – emissions from Nikel and Zapoljarny – is hardly mentioned. This must be the top priority on the political agenda between Norway and Russia. The Russian authorities must understand that it is impossible to talk about environmental cooperation in the north of oil and gas and in the nuclear waste sector without the clean-up of the emissions of Norilsk Nickel. It goes without saying that it's going to be difficult for the North Region bet when we have a government that doesn't want to welcome industrial agreements to a value of 6.4 billion. kr, while we have a government that over seven years has not done anything visible to clean the emissions of Norilsk Nickel. We haven't done anything like nation over 25 years, and we've known about this in a longer time perspective, ever since 1974. We see that at the same time that the Kirkenes are declared the bridgehead to the east, the South Varanger society is exposed to the death ore from the east. There's not much credibility in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e696	The Nordic Council had its first theme session on Iceland in March this year, and one of the themes was the Arctic. The focus here was to strengthen linguistic competence and strengthen infrastructure for research and research networks, and environmental protection and extraction of natural resources in the northern regions are challenging themes. The ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in Nuuk May 2011 is often referred to as a success. Foreign Ministers signed a legally binding agreement on search and rescue cooperation in the Arctic. This is the first agreement in its battle between the Arctic countries and offers for more committed cooperation in the Arctic. At the Nuuk meeting, it was also decided to set up a working group to negotiate an agreement on oil protection between countries. The idea is that, like the search and rescue agreement, it will become legally binding, clear responsibilities and better coordination between Arctic countries. The agreement and cooperation are important. The most important thing will still be the prevention of emissions, but experience suggests that accidents unfortunately occur. Good coordination and cooperation between countries in the event of oil spills into the sea is important and a good start. But the Arctic seas are huge and the infrastructure is very limited. With ever-increasing shipping and increased resource use in the Arctic, the risk of accidents and emissions increases. It is therefore essential that we also get better equipment and strengthened capacity. We need stronger Arctic cooperation on oil protection equipment and capacity. We need to work together on research and development so that we get equipment that can be used effectively under arctic conditions, where ice and cold in particular are major challenges. We need to have common exercises, both to test whether the equipment is working and to work together between countries. It is also encouraging that several of the largest oil companies recently launched a programme to develop new oil protection equipment for use under Arctic conditions. Development of new and better equipment and cooperation on capacity are also an area where Nordic cooperation can lead and lead the way. If the Nordic countries can start cooperation here, the other Arctic countries can be brought together. I believe that from the Nordic and Norwegian sides, we should go ahead and show how such cooperation can take place, and then take joint initiatives in the Arctic Council to bring the other three Arctic countries together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e713	I must first say that I find this to be an extraordinary contrast to the views on the notification when I heard the two representatives of the Progress Party on this matter. I am going to speak in favour of the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Höglund, if I may choose. One of the many success criteria for the Northern Region Communication is knowledge, which is also the hub of the Northern Region Policy itself. Contributing to the continued systematic development of both knowledge and new knowledge infrastructures will be one of the most important things we do. We're doing well, and – perhaps the most important thing – we can just get better. So far, the large educational institutions in the region have received a large and deserved focus as knowledge and research in the northern regions are brought forward. However, there is a lot of exciting and important north-eastern work also at the smaller colleges in the district that it is important to develop further. That's why in my article I want to focus on our two colleges in my home state – the Finnish Academy and the Sami College. Both are important educational institutions that contribute greatly to the creation of exciting skills jobs and other value creation in the diversity of opportunities available in the north. Increased spending on travel is a good example of this. The Finnish University of Finland today has a strong travel professional research environment. Over the years, the school has developed knowledge of local and regional processes linking the Russian-Norwegian border area, where the development of the tourism industry has been central. Just as the University of Tromsø has received support from the U.D. to a new professorate of ore geology, which is also a very wise decision, I think it will be a least equally important decision that the public also contributes to the establishment of a professorate in travel life at the University of Finland in order to further strengthen the development and research work in travel life at the university and in the district. The message we are discussing today also highlights the strengthening of the Finnish Higher Education College as a centre for Arctic Travel Research and Competence. In the Communication, there are clear indications that tourism on Svalbard will continue to be pursued. In this context, it is important to improve the situation in order to give the Finnish Higher Education College the economic space to develop this important vocational education. I am also pleased that the indigenous dimension has been given such an important place and political support in the communication. As mentioned, knowledge is naveled in Norway’s Northern Region Strategy. Of course, it also includes indigenous peoples. In this context, it is important that the Sami College is given a clearer role as a knowledge and indigenous institution in and for the northern regions in the field of real competence in Sami issues, indigenous issues and in multicultural understanding. The role of the school through the use of traditional knowledge is also important to maintain and not least to develop further. The Sami College should therefore have an important and central place in the notification priorities of a cross-border knowledge programme for Sami traditional knowledge in the Nordic countries and in Russia. Such knowledge is now threatened by several teams. It is therefore important that this work should start rapidly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e732	It is an important issue that is being debated today; to see opportunities for development, cooperation, dialogue, value creation, etc. in the northern regions. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that all development and cooperation must be based on a fundamental premise on safety and stability. Security and stability are the basis for positive and good development. We know that there are some trends that create uncertainties about how the situation can develop in the future. Geopolitically, this is a very important area because of resources like oil, energy, fish, minerals, etc., that have been raised here today. This will also attract the attention of major powers in the future. In the new proposal on the long-term plan of defence, there is probably a much more realistic assessment of the development of the north than the North Region Communication suggests. Trends and trends that may create potential conflicts in the future are also seen. The United States has announced that they will reduce their presence in Europe to focus on the South China Sea. It is likely to involve a reduced presence in the northern regions. At the same time, we know that Russia has announced a major upgrade in the north. That's what you focus on in the Proposition from the Ministry of Defence, where you say: ‘The combination of Russian major action ambitions, interests in the north and military upgrading means that stability in the north can be challenged in the future.’ Furthermore, the proposition also underlines that: ‘wide international trends contribute to uncertainty as to what future security policy challenges Norway will face.’ I know that the Storting will come back to the consideration of the proposition on Defence, but it is important, in my view, that these assessments are also part of the North Region policy. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his speech, security policy is an integral part and a basic element of foreign policy, and therefore also an important part of the issue we are discussing today. We can expect a stronger military Russia in the northern regions, while the United States and NATO will reduce their presence. This can create a more demanding security policy situation and will probably require us to take a greater part of the responsibility in the northern regions themselves. Then I think it is important that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have the same approach to the policy pursued in the northern regions. It is important to take into account a realistic analysis of the situation, not only of what it is like today, but also of what developments are possible in the future. All developments have security as a basic premise, also in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e757	People-to-people cooperation should never be underestimated. It has built up fences, and in our case it drilled many small holes in the formerly closed border gate between Norway and Russia during the cold war. Now people in the border areas are going to have their own border residence certificate that simplifies crossing and that will strengthen the business life of the municipalities of South Varanger. Who had thought it was possible a short time ago? The north-east passenger has now become ice-free during the summer. This means new commercial opportunities for ship traffic and the curtailment of sailing routes. It also means new potential challenges for rescue services if the accident is out. I note that good international work has been done in this field related to the Arctic waters search and rescue agreement. Is everything just happy and old in the north? We still have challenges. Coastal population figures have long been worrying, with associated age changes within the remaining population. Those who move are original residents, while moving largely relates to labour immigration from other countries. The population of the Finnish coast is changing, but it happens in a secure, historic spirit. The resource-rich coast has always attracted migrant workers. The difference now is that they come not only from Finland and Sweden, but much longer away. I see this as an opportunity, but we also have to figure out how to accept our new employees. The conversion of tax offices and the need for personal presence of non-residents in order to obtain tax cards are demanding when it is 20 to 30 miles to the nearest office. We must achieve a decentralisation in this area, for example. in cooperation with the municipalities. The question of whether there is a need for better cooperation between the Nordic politicians is just an answer. The answer is yes. We, who are Nordic politicians, have to take self-criticism, we have to think completely, and we have to do something in relation to the haphazard cooperation in the National Subcommittee. Recently, there has been a media debate on the allocation of development funds to projects in the north. The fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made an allocation in line with the main political objectives of the government is good. I want further investment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other departments. And then we're going to live with the fact that the media don't sacrifice the gap on whether the funds have led to anything positive in the north. Had they done so, we could read positive statements about the development and policy that have begun the Northern Territory adventure. Positive news is not good news for the media, but they're good for us living in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e775	In connection with the presentation of the Nordgebiet message in Stortinget, I was also travelling in North Norway, among others. together with the President-in-Office, and got a lot of good input. What we experienced were visions and possibilities expressed by the Nordic municipalities and states. This also creates growth. This applies from targets in the transport sector to petroleum activity in the north – which are considered positive. If we look at reality more closely, including, for example, Ofotbanen and the desire to build up double tracks there, there are opportunities for growth both in Sweden and on the Norwegian side of the border – which is important. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has done a good job here. He has visited and travelled with the ore track along with his colleague from Sweden, thus contributing to the fact that several other Swedish government councils have travelled this route to discover the importance of double tracks. So there I will give praise to the Council of State, which has taken a good initiative. What's going to be a little bit wrong is what's going on at the Bjørnberg customs station. I know it's been up before today. I have a cabin 1.5 km away, so I observed myself in the Easter sea and chaos, among other things. there were 54 trailers on the Norwegian side and 22 on the Swedish side, waiting for the road to open. Then we can ignore all the fish transporters from the Lofoten and the Vesterålen, who are in shuttle traffic that way, because they are aware that the border is closed. This is a border problem, and it's a problem for business. The business is losing a lot of money to standing and waiting and not getting the goods carried on. This cannot be done by Norway as a nation. Here we don't talk about big money to be able to keep it open at night and on holidays, here it's about doing it. This will also be a debate next week when we are going to discuss border barriers in the Nordic region. Here, I think, we need to make political progress and find a solution to this problem. There is a broad political consensus about the notification, and then I think we too should get a clear political consensus here, so that we can get this on the road. We have opportunities in minerals and gas, and we also have a very competent level of higher education in research in the north, which we have to take into account. I think it's important to build up research on, among other things. cold climate, which can facilitate the establishment of new businesses in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e788	Like North Norway, this hall is characterized by optimism as regards the belief in the possibilities of the northern part of the nation. I'm very happy about that. But I think I'm going to start by attaching some comments to the representative of Åland on security, especially with regard to our good neighbour in the East – a neighbor who has had some tough years, but who is about to get up again and has ambitions to be an international power, and perhaps also has ambitions to become a superpower. I come from Bodø and still meet people away from the operating headquarters – both now and before. I also had the pleasure of being there with the Arctic delegation last week, and I'm not too worried that the Russians are increasing their military activity, because it's been too low. It has been too low in relation to the size of the country, and the huge areas it has in the north. It is also beneficial for Norway that the Russians have a professional and competent military presence in the northern regions. Then we're just going to hope that there's a presence that contributes to low tension in the region, and that doesn't increase tension into an aggressive north-eastern policy, which is not the basis for believing today. The foundation for the strong demands we make in the north is linked to the presence – presence mainly by people. As has been said earlier in the debate: the most important resource in North Norway, as in the rest of the country, is linked to the people who live there, the future work they are actually able to do through their efforts with their heads and hands. Maybe we'll bring this Northern Region Communication to shore. Before, there's been a very big focus on the sea areas, now we're raising it on land and looking at the possibilities of new value creation there. There is talk of a new energy region in Europe, there is talk of a new industrial era, and then I want, as several other speakers, to stress the need for what is being done by new measures, to the joy of the nation, to also give local ring-effects. Because if people are to live in this part of the country, we must also have attractive jobs. On one of its many trips to North Norway, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has arranged for the gas to be used industrially. He's even got this idea named after him; now you talk about the Big Pipe in many places in North Norway! If I can make a call to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I see that this can be realized, and we can also discuss concrete places where this pipe will come ashore. Otherwise, I will give my full support to Mr. Stroem's posts. Building further on the North Region Initiative through knowledge centres, including: The University of Nordland is absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e803	It's been a pretty interesting and good debate, in my opinion. It's a cross-political desire to develop the northern part of the country, to develop the dynamics of this whole region, which is so difficult, and where there are so few people, with the many, many opportunities. It is clear that some people feel bored when in some areas the opposition parties may have allowed themselves to have slightly greater ambitions than the government parties. This is certainly not new in Norwegian policy. I think you just have to start practicing in the future, that in transport, road, rail, oil, gas, visas, most of the political areas that matter to the development of the north, language education and education of the known and the wide, you will experience just more and more that the opposition has clear objectives that we will set in the future. It was primarily the representative Kåre Simensen who thought that we allowed ourselves to talk down the part of the country when we pointed out some of these areas. Either we have expressed ourselves very confused, or the representative Simensen has been injured to misunderstand completely. It is pointed out that so much more money is now spent in 2012 than was done in 2005, but it should certainly be lacking, with a government that has more than 350 billion. more on the expenditure side of their budgets, thanks to rich oil and gas deposits, which two out of three government parties have systematically voted against should fall into the treasury. It should just be missing that you're not able to prioritize the other way around. Then I didn't mean to talk down the continent by referring to population development – on the contrary. There's no doubt that the plus you can put in the book today, in many ways is positive, even though it represents the immigrant population in the north. The population in Norway has increased by nearly 50 pst. from 1951 until today. In my home country, population growth is 7 pst. In Finland there were 79 400 inhabitants in 1951. Today I am familiar with about 73 000 people. In 1960, Rogaland and Nordland were alike in the population. Today, the population in the Nordic countries has remained at rest — at the same level — of 237,000. Rogaland has increased with the corresponding population of Troms and half of Finnmark. So it would certainly just be missing that none of us have a little bit more ambition than that it should stand on the ground resting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e814	Just to clarify the point of view of the Advance Party, and mine, of the message: As I said in my speech to begin with here, we believe that this is a good message and a good starting point. Everything could get better, but the starting point from the government in this area was good. When challenges related to Nikel are addressed, I fully share that description of the problem related to this. When there is criticism of the message, I must also take it to myself regarding the setting. We have not spent much time on Nikel in the setting. Maybe we should and should have done that. It does not reduce the challenge and the problem. The interpellation of the representative, Fredriksen, will be held later today, is timely in bringing the matter to a high level on the agenda. So some other things that have been mentioned in the debate. I share the description of optimism, progress and competence found in business, municipalities, universities and colleges around North Norway. It's happening a lot. A lot is probably happening thanks to the North Region bet that is already going on, but it is also always pointing to challenges – things that need to be solved in order for this bet to really get the promise I think most of us think is absolutely necessary and desirable. The challenge is whether we, as policy makers, are able to hang out with the full pressure of business and academic institutions. Do we intend to take the decisions and facilitate the development that needs to be in place? Then the representative of Aspaker spoke about the fact that there are too few Norwegian students in Russia. I share that vision completely. There are many practical challenges that make it not happen. But there should be a greater pressure on this. The northern sea route is important and has also been mentioned by several. Yesterday, the report came from the Russian side that an infrastructure was being built along the Russian coast to deal with this in a better way. This is also linked to the need for a credible search and rescue capacity, where not least increased capacity to rescue people in distress will be put in place. I would like to end by saying that we need a great deal of commitment from big business and government – and not least from the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself – in the future to realise these projects. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has a great deal of credit for putting this so heavily on the national political agenda. I share the view of the rose with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. But he has a great job to do to follow this further up in his daily work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e829	We, and the government, believe that increased investment in infrastructure is necessary to strengthen Norway’s long-term ability to value. Since 2005, both the level of ambition has increased and the capacity for follow-up has improved significantly. In the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the government is laying down an economic framework of 100 billion. kr higher than the planning framework of the previous transport plan. It's not a little! This effort is of major importance for the development of the road network in the three northernmost counties. One of the main prerequisites for economic growth and prosperity development in the northern regions is the presence of satisfactory infrastructure on land, in water and in air. The development of strong and attractive housing and labour market regions is also important from a north-eastern perspective. The government prioritises a strong upgrading of the E6 linking Norway from Kirkenes to Svinesund. It's the main artery. Many projects will be located in North Norway – and in Northern Ireland. I'm going to mention a big project that is now important to start on, namely the Hålogalandsbrua. It's on the bed. This is not just a project for Narvik and for Nordland, but it is very important for the whole of Northern Norway, both in terms of business and housing. It is an important contribution to the infrastructure. In the end, I would like to mention something that is absolutely an important contribution to the North Region bet: airports and the airport structure. I believe that in view of the future, there will be an important debate about doing something about this structure – not least building larger airports, so that you can bind the states and the country together. There are a number of investigations now showing that it is possible to launch and build large airports. It is then important to develop these areas, because there is also an important contribution to the North Region Initiative. I think this has been a good debate. I think a lot of people are impatient. We're going forward. I think it's a very good basis that's been laid here. I must also commend the case rapporteur, both for a good report and for a good contribution to this debate – and not least for the basis that has also been laid by the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e840	First of all, I want to join the last speaker in terms of his impatience, for it is said that the one with great impatience has much to do. I guess we can all see it in our eyes that in the case of the northern regions, we still have a lot of done. It's possible that I felt really bad instead, but it was now about my own municipality and my own people living with the pollution problem from Russia. Here too, we must come up with solutions. It's great that we have the debate we have today. It's great that the northern regions have been raised to a much higher level than it was before. But it also has to be that there has to be room to have different views and different opinions about which ways we go, and about the different solutions that stand before us. It is clear that, given that the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke about the national transport plan, the only railway in the north mentioned there is the Ofot Railway. There is not a single word on rail with regard to neither Norway-Finland nor Norway-Russia. Svein Roald Hansen said that the Kirkenes was the star in the north and agreed to create optimism. I would like to remind you that it was Minister of Industry Jens Stoltenberg who put down Southvaranger Gruve, and that this was not established with the background of a national campaign. This was a local initiative in which the municipality of Sør-Varanger had its assets sold out in AS Syd-Varanger together with Varanger Kraft, which made it possible to realize today's mining operations. Then I'll also finally say a few words about Svalbard. We were visiting there last week. They lack predictability. They lack berth areas to meet current cruise ship needs. They lack backland areas, and – not least – they want to clarify what will be the Svalbard power plant for the future. It has to be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e855	I think it's positive, what is said by the representative Kåre Simensen about the important investment in higher education. It's always nice to talk about what's positive, and less pleasant to mention what could have been far better. What I would like to point out is that these places of study should be filled and thus contribute to increased local competence, a much better foundation must be laid in high school. What does today's government do with a 70 pst non-response? in the case of boys in Finnmark? What does the government do today because it's only 35 pst. by pupils and apprentices completing in normal time? This should challenge the government parties, and also what is said about the lack of interesting apprenticeships in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e862	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I don't know if it's a good and legal expression to use here, but still it says something.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e867	It's not, the president will comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e870	But it was a good expression anyway from my part of the country. Enough about that. There has been a good debate, an interesting debate and a debate that testifies to an engagement, regardless of dialect, as I said before, and postal code where you hold. It's also interesting to hear the representatives of the red-green parties defend their government as eminently as they actually do. But the big question would have been, if this had been a product presented by another government, would the same batches have been equally satisfied? Much of it is really about political rhetoric and about having it busy. It was about local ring effects. Yes, as I said in the first post, if there's something we have to make sure to do, it's that those who live in the part of the country get involved in what's happening, and that we don't just see that others come up and get ready and make use of the resources, while we're left next to hua at hand and look at. That time is over. The Northerner demands his right and will get involved in what is happening. We've, as I said before, seen Rogaland and what they've got there, and I don't think anyone in North Norway has anything particularly against getting involved in anything similar. So it's been talking about impatience. I guess impatience is, with respect to reporting, just the first name, because there are so many unsolved tasks. We're talking about transportation. We're talking about different modes of transport. I drove on weekend E6 from Oslo to Rognan. I have to say, with respect to reporting: driving E6 from a piece in the North Tronde Team and from there to the Korgen in the Northland is a nightmare. The road from the county border in the north to the sea – I don't know, you can go to the millennia, you get a similar experience, but then you have to pay extra for it. I don't know how long you think you're wearing. I heard the representative Stroem point out here that it is important that we do something about transportation. I totally agree. But where's the time ambition? Where's the vision going? When are we going to have a road network that's so good that you don't have to be half the time in the air when you're driving a car up? If this is what you mean by using the country section and the resources that exist there, we have to make it right. It concerns the aeroplane structure. During the hearing, it was found that there were problems when you replaced the crew on the Norne ship and they were going to fly out via Lake Sandness. There wasn't any flight capacity there. Then I thought, is there a problem today, or is there something that you could have solved relatively easily? We talked about a million a year to solve the problem for Tollvesenet on Bjørnberg. Why is this a problem? You can be as visionary and have as many ambitions as you want, but if you don't have the ability to get it down to detail and get these visions into solutions, this is going to be an eternal political round dance that's about visions and not about reality. Most people outside this hall live in a reality that is not necessarily political, but is a tough everyday life. And that's what we're going to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e883	I just have a little comment on Eirik Sivertsen's comments on security policy, where he says that he is reassured by the Russian upliftment, and that this probably does not represent any problem in the future – as far as I understood him. We're going to hope that that's right, but we don't know that. Some of the problem I raised is that the Ministry of Defence does not see it the same way as the Sivertsen. The Ministry of Defence says that the combination of Russian major action ambitions, interests in the north and military upgrading means that stability in the north can be challenged in the future. That's the assessment the government makes when you think about it in the long term. That's what this message is going to do, it's going to think 20 years ahead. That it is stable today is positive, we all agree on that, but no one knows what the situation will be like in the next 20 years – there are features that can lead to a more unstable situation in the future. Then my point is that we have to think in the long term about security policy. You have to think that the situation can change, it can change unexpectedly, and it can change quickly, it also says the Ministry of Defence in its proposition. Security policy cannot be planned on the basis that it will always be a good thing. It is necessary to plan on the basis of the scenarios that may arise in the longer term in the future, including those that may increase tension and where the level of conflict may increase. My point is that it is important that foreign policy also has security policy as a core – and I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech earlier today. Then I am a little surprised if it is that the representative Sivertsen has a different view of it – that security policy is not important, or that we are going to plan for peace and stability here, and no matter how much Russia and others rust up, it will be equally stable. As far as I understood, he actually said that it will increase stability in the north. This is an analysis that I do not find in the government documents, and which I cannot see is the basis of the Nordgebietnmeldelingen. The security aspect is also fundamental in foreign policy. Defence policy and foreign policy must be coherent. I think we have learned from history how it works if foreign policy goes one way and defence policy and security policy goes another way, and there is a gap between the two approaches. You can get a policy that can be relatively risky if you have a situation with an increased voltage level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e893	The focus on the north is positive, to which this communication that is now being debated gives us an opportunity. These are challenges, but not least a large picture of opportunities that is important for us to take advantage of. This does not apply at least in the petroleum industry. The clarification of the divisional issue with Russia was important for the future of the petroleum industry in the north. We have made new big findings in the north, and this once again provides opportunities for a long-term investment front in investment in human resources – that is, competence and a future for those living in the north – and it also provides a long-term investment horizon in the construction of industrial facilities. We have a lot of happy examples of this lately, for example. Aker's establishment of a large engineering office in Tromsø and Statoil that wants to rebuild their bet in the north by strengthening the activity, among others. in Harstad. There's nothing more enjoyable than visiting Hammerfest, for every time I get up there, there's always something new happening. It's positive to see how the activity in the area up there is growing. Of course – I can't avoid mentioning that I would also like to see Lofoten and the West Pole and the areas outside open for oil and gas extraction, but I'm going to let that ball lie now. I want to say a few words about Svalbard. Several have called for concrete action to be taken in the follow-up to our North Region action. In these days, the right has a proposal for a treatment of a new coal-fired power plant with CO2 cleaning and landfilling in Longyearbyen. This is a very concrete measure that we want the Storting to join. At Svalbard, we have the whole value chain within a short distance. We have the coal mines where we've said it should be activity in the future as well. Longyearbyen and Svalbard need to strengthen their energy supply, a new coal power plant could do that. Purification also means that we take into account the environment and then also opportunities for the landfill of CO2 on Svalbard — and not least, it gives us the opportunity to monitor these reservoirs from the land side. It makes these operations much more reasonable than what can be done on a Norwegian base. Here we have both the environmental aspect, the energy supply and the learning effect in terms of storage – which we can solve for Svalbard. It would put on our North Region bet, it would put on our environmental stakes and energy stakes and bet on CCS if we got to this on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e906	The representative Tor-Arne Stroem has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e909	It was just a little clarification to the representative Ellingen. I also drove from Bodø to Løken Werk this summer. At Lökken Werk lives the representative Arne L. Haugen, this is his kingdom. We've driven the E6 both, and what Ellings said was the places it wasn't done. We have many, many tasks on the E6, we agree on that, but what the representative didn't mention was the places where something has been done: in the Dunderlands valley and in Helgeland, a lot has been done, and there's also a lot of work done on E6 Mayavatn – just to mention something. You have to be a little bit despicable when dealing with these problems around E6. There are major plans to do much more in connection with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e918	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has had the word twice and thus gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e921	I understand that I must have expressed myself unusually clumsy when I have been perceived there that I do not support this government's foreign and security policy. That is wrong, because I am doing it completely, and I also share the opinion of the representative of Åland that security policy is at the heart of foreign policy. My point was that Russia's military activity in the north, and elsewhere, has been lower than could be expected to be adequate in relation to the legitimate needs of Russia too to have a security policy that makes them safe. Then it's also my point that a well-founded defense, which is professional in its approach and which has a good understanding of the international situation, including on the Russian side, will help to make us safer on each other. That we have a large neighbour who is also safe in his situation and will be able to assert his interests will also lead to increased stability. In my first post, I was very concerned with international dialogue. It is also an instrument of security policy, as well as a safe, credible and modern defence. We will discuss this later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e932	If it wasn't for us to be filled with all the common vision and consensus in this room, one might be tempted to say that the greatest contradiction here, which was internal to the Progress Party, was elegantly cleared up by the case-rapporteur. But since we're not in the «climate», but in the positive, I'm not going to focus on that angle of incidence. Instead, I would like to say that I am taking the challenge, which also comes from the representative of Ellingsen. He uses considerable impatience in areas where more needs to be done, including in the case of Nikel. It is not that this case has been in place for 20 years. I remember myself how the former Prime Minister Syse – and subsequently Harlem Brundtland and other Norwegian Prime Ministers – have been working to intervene in cleaning up this area. This has not been the case in Norway. We had 300 million until quite recently. have been made available for an action if Russia had undertaken that task. I've brought this up with Russian counterparts every time I've had occasion, and I think I'm going to keep going on with it. So I take with me what the representative Høglund says, that there is a lot to do for me in my daily work around this. I'm conscious of that. We have a great Arctic agenda, we have a great agenda in relation to our neighbour Russia, and we have a great agenda with north-eastern dialogues. These are areas that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking seriously, and as a coordinator and a driving force for Northern Region policy, my colleagues are working in a wide range of areas, as has been stated in this communication. It has been pointed out that we report small and large cases when we present the national budget in the autumn. I agree. To those who believe that we have only brought everything that should be in the north, to get a long list, I can say that it is wrong. We could add a lot more, if that was the point. We have e.g. not specifically reported on the significance of improved local economy for the Northern Region initiative, and we have not reported specifically on a wide range of other sectoral areas, but we are trying to give a picture of how the strategy is implemented and how money is used. Then I want – if the President allows it – to thank those who have contributed to us now, at my discretion, having had a good message, a thorough process around the message, a good consultation process, a good attitude and a good debate. Of course, this applies to the parties in this Chamber, in particular those parliamentarians who have also participated in international forums, such as the Arctic Parliamentary Assembly – an important grant. I would also like to thank you for all the recordings that have come from the north, from expert committees, universities, companies, different assemblies and also from many people in their usual work. I would also like to thank, from this chair, my own office, those in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have worked on this project as a priority project since the fall of 2005. They have done so with all the motivation and effort that characterises this office. Although it is the government's responsibility to organise its own office, I would like to say so from here, for here there is a considerable amount of work and a significant desire to follow up this message and the conclusions that have been drawn here. So I look forward to continuing close cooperation on common goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e949	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has had the word twice before and thus gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e952	Just a greeting to the representative Stroem: the difference in approach is quite simply that the representative Stroem is satisfied with the excellence of what the government has achieved. My concern lies more in the shortcomings that remain. It is quite right, as the representative Stroem said – there are also parts of the road in Northern Ireland that have become very good. The problem is that there is no way in even more than what is good! It would be interesting to hear what kind of time vision, or ambition, the government has to complete this, so that you get the whole way, because individual pieces don't help. It's like having a bucket of legoclosses – it's nothing but blocks before you put them together and make something out of it. As of today, there are many loose legoclosses on the government's table, which are not put together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e957	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e973	Some political issues are of fundamental importance. No matter how we disagree on how economic policy should be designed, on the place of religion in politics, on immigration, on refugees, etc., there are some things that for us people go beyond the framework of politics, which are simply existential issues. They are because we humans – among other things, in our technological advances, in our thirst for new knowledge and opportunities to create better lives, but also in our imaginative ways of finding new and more effective ways of harming one another – has enabled us to destroy our own basis of existence. In its ultimate consequence, man-made climate change can completely destroy the basis of life on earth. In the event of severe global warming, large parts of the earth's biodiversity will be threatened, the ecosystem will be destroyed, resource access will be reduced dramatically, and large areas of land will become uninhabitable due to changing climates. It requires international cooperation and national responsibility to manage that crisis. The country of the world is so far in agreement. But the a little abstract about the climate issue and the fact that the main effects are so far ahead of time have made it so difficult to bring the world together for a sufficiently concrete solution. Far more concrete, immediate and understandable is the threat posed by nuclear weapons. As part of an arms race, a struggle between ideologies, geopolitical positioning and their own alleged acute security needs, some of the world's countries have armed themselves with enough nuclear weapons to destroy humanity many times. Of the world's more than 20,000 nuclear weapons, Russia and the United States have about 2,000 of them in so-called high preparedness, which means that they can be used in a few minutes' notice. Nuclear weapons are the greatest security problem of our time. The nuclear weapon, with its violent destructive force, represents a constant threat to people all over the world and is capable of destroying trust between countries. It is well illustrated by the fact that both the United States, China, India, the United Kingdom and Russia join the vision of a nuclear-free world, but in practice they are unwilling to settle down. The logic that a country reserves the right to have nuclear weapons as long as other countries have the same, makes disarmament very difficult and creates a lack of trust, which contributes to the further spread of nuclear weapons. The fact that China became an atomic power motivated India to develop its nuclear weapons, which in turn provoked Pakistan to become an atomic power. The proliferation of nuclear weapons clearly increases the chances that failed states, terrorist organisations and irrational regimes will at some point have access to such weapons, with the consequences it has. In the defenses of the major powers for their nuclear weapons programs lies much of the symbolic power and value of such weapons. The fact that the powers of the world have nuclear weapons will always inspire several states to want such weapons. Therefore, full disarmament is the only way to achieve safety and security. Nuclear weapons are an environmental problem. Nuclear weapons are the only technology that humans have created that enables us to destroy all life on the globe. Arsenal is enormous, and only a fraction of the world's nuclear weapons will kill tens of millions of people. Smoke and dust from less than a hundred nuclear explosions can prevent up to 10 pst. of the sunlight from reaching the surface of the earth and causing cooling and less precipitation. A nuclear war will cause long-term destruction of the ozone layer. Increases in radiation, both from weapons themselves and from harmful ultraviolet radiation, will lead to extensive cancer, crop failure and destruction of marine life. Nuclear weapons are an economic problem. The world’s nuclear weapons programmes are financed by tax revenue that could have been spent on health, education and development. That's going to be 5500 billion. nuclear weapons in the next ten years if the world's nuclear powers continue to spend as much money on their programmes as they do today. The United States alone spends more than 270 billion dollars. kr a year on nuclear weapons. It's a quarter of the Norwegian government budget. The need for dominance of the powers of nuclear weapons is an imperialist, aggressive, unsocial and economic madness that underscores both the gross misalignment of good in the world, the gross mispriorities of the world's country when thousands of billions of dollars are spent on weapons that have no practical benefit — unless one is a member of mass destruction — and the fact that countries that do not yet have nuclear weapons are inspired to prioritise precisely such programmes over development and better well-being in one's own country and for one's own people. In comparison, the UN Office for Disarmament Affairs has an annual budget of just over 50 million. kr, and the Disarmament Conference is standing completely still, without progress and without any anchor in the commitment displayed by people all over the world. Nuclear weapons are a humanitarian problem. Humanitarian law prohibits the use of weapons which do not make it possible to distinguish between civilians and soldiers and disproportionate attacks. Why this is not compatible with the use of nuclear weapons, says itself. It is not possible to fully respect the fundamental principles of humanitarian law unless full disarmament is committed by a definitive ban on nuclear weapons. The exposure to nuclear weapons is large and covers the whole world. It's an engagement that's clearly visible also in Norway, also here in the hall today. It's very joyful. Especially happy is that this is a matter that engages all generations, also very many young people. Yesterday, the Children’s and Youth Council adopted an opinion requiring a ban on nuclear weapons. In its opinion, the Children’s and Youth Council requires Norway to increase its efforts to eliminate the nuclear threat. A large patch went across the country to Easter and helped to raise the issue on the agenda. In the broad and popular commitment, our greatest opportunity is to change. It's just that political force and legitimacy can compete with the cold, rational, game-based logic of nuclear disarmament. The matter will not move forward without the human and humanitarian emphasis being placed, and there is a popular pressure behind it that gives strength to the politicians who are going to take the fight internationally. Strong commitment to the peace movement has contributed to Norway being an important country in the fight against landmines and class weapons. Our status as a nuclear-free state gives us an opportunity to act, because of course it is not that the world's nuclear powers themselves will take the initiative in actual full disarmament. It is the rest of the world and the nuclear powers themselves who must demand a world free of this threat. This is a matter that is also particularly important to my own party historically. It was the fight against nuclear weapons that led largely to the creation of the SF, later SV. April 16, 1961, exactly 51 years ago, my party was founded. The very first sentences of the very first instrument of incorporation are as follows: ‘Humanity is at a crossroads. War or peace has become a matter of life or death for every individual human being as for all the peoples of the earth. This requires a complete political transition where a categorical no to war and nuclear weapons must be the starting point and the basis. Therefore, the requirement must prohibit the production and disposal of all nuclear weapons, bacteriological and other means of mass destruction.» These are timeless words. That is why I am both very proud and very happy that the fight for full nuclear disarmament has gone from being a counter-current movement in Norwegian policy to being the policy of the Norwegian government. In Soria Moria II, it says: ‘The proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious threat to international peace and security. Norway shall play an active role in international efforts to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons.’» More specifically, the Government has stated that it will consider itself taking the initiative of a convention against nuclear weapons. This has been clearly followed up and demonstrated by the Foreign Minister himself, both at home and through Norway's policies in the United Nations. That is why I look forward to both the Foreign Minister's response and the debate that follows, because we need to clarify what actions we will take from the Norwegian side to contribute to real negotiations on a ban on nuclear weapons, and what time perspective we are going to work on, because we all know that this will be a time-consuming, but very, very important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1016	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for helping to put on the agenda one of the greatest and most serious challenges of our time. The government's goal, on which the interpellant was involved, is a world without nuclear weapons. Soria Moria II confirms that the government will ‘work for a world free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction through binding agreements covering all countries’. Our political platform further states: ‘We will mobilise to reduce the role of nuclear weapons by working for a successful monitoring conference in 2010. If this fails, we will consider a separate Convention against Nuclear Weapons.’ We are working systematically to facilitate the achievement of a goal in this field. In recent years nuclear disarmament has risen on the international agenda. It is joyous and in line with our view that nuclear disarmament is a good security policy. Nevertheless: This is a demanding field with few easily won victories. The non-proliferation agreement, NPT, has been under pressure for a long time. The 2010 Supervisory Conference was crucial to the credibility of the agreement, and Norway played a central role in the negotiations. The result was far from perfect. But we got a final document that clearly sets the goal of a nuclear-free world. We agreed on a 64-point action plan covering all the main elements of the agreement: disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use of nuclear technology. The action plan provides a good basis for further work, including: by imposing clear reporting obligations on nuclear weapons States. In addition, we agreed to follow up the 1995 resolution on a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East. The final document will take several steps in the right direction. Firstly, it refers to the five-point nuclear disarmament plan of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, as in particular: includes negotiations on a nuclear convention. It was a historic advance in the work of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Secondly, the final document also refers for the first time in the NPT context to the disastrous humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons and the obligation on all countries to comply with international humanitarian law. An important response from civil society came last November. Then the Red Cross movement unanimously adopted a resolution obliging 187 national Red Cross and Red Crescent Associations to work against their authorities in order to obtain a ban on nuclear weapons. This gives the movement a much stronger mandate than before in this field. Other non-governmental organisations are also addressing nuclear issues based on human suffering in the use of nuclear weapons, rather than just the major policy perspective. This is about basic Norwegian values. Norway has clearly contributed to strengthening the humanitarian perspective of international policies, not least as regards the development of humanitarian law and the protection of civilians. At the same time, Norway’s broad commitment to disarmament, non-proliferation and nuclear safety is highly credible. The consequences of the use of nuclear weapons are fatal in both illicit use, terrorism and accidents. A nuclear explosion will have immediate humanitarian consequences that put our entire emergency response to extreme tests. Even limited use of nuclear weapons could have serious climatic effects, with consequences for the world’s food production. The economic consequences will be serious and global. The State pension fund, as a leading financial player, refrains from investing in nuclear weapons-producing companies on the basis of ethical grounds. Several should follow this example. I believe that the time has now come for a broad discussion and assessment of the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons. We are planning a conference in Oslo in the spring of 2013 to highlight various aspects of nuclear weapons as a humanitarian problem. We will invite interested States, UN organisations, the International Red Cross Committee and other actors from civil society. I think many will appreciate such an opportunity to see nuclear disarmament from a new point of view. The goal of a world free of nuclear weapons is today announced and widely recognised in both the UN and NATO. At the same time, your path seems long and winding. This has led to frustration in many, a passive attitude towards the nuclear challenge and a cynicism towards the multilateral system. Such an attitude is serious. It undermines political understanding The Non-Proliferation Agreement is based on the commitment of nuclear weapons countries to disarmament, while nuclear-free states undertake not to acquire such weapons. Negative attitudes also threaten the legitimacy and integrity of the non-proliferation regime and help to weaken the work to prevent us from getting more and more nuclear weapons states in our world. The lack of momentum in international disarmament has led many actors in civil society to wish for a separate convention against nuclear weapons. The government referred to this as a current possibility in the Soria Moria Declaration, and the UN Secretary-General has expressed himself in the same direction. This shouldn't be controversial. I can hardly imagine that it is possible to meet the Non-Proliferation Agreement objectives of a world without nuclear weapons without a legally binding instrument that regulates the conditions. The interpellant refers to the processes leading to the Land Mines and Class Weapons Conventions. We have made important experiences even though not everyone is directly transferable. Let me mention someone. Firstly, the work was based on the unacceptable humanitarian effects of landmines and class weapons. This made it possible to draw on the involvement of a broad range of actors also outside the political space. Secondly, it is an important experience that you should not add up to a process where those who want the least decide the most. In order to achieve a binding ban on nuclear weapons, the most important thing we can do is to strengthen the political basis for such a ban and to develop practical conditions in order to bring us closer to the target. At the political level, the humanitarian commitment and the challenges of nuclear proliferation should give new attention to the effects of nuclear weapons. At the same time, we put in the foreground the very motive for the non-proliferation agreement's connection between non-proliferation and disarmament. That's necessary, we're going to create the broad commitment needed to get real movement in the matter. A broad commitment of both politicians and civil society is crucial to such mobilisation. With regard to concrete measures, we are in a situation where the apparatus that can negotiate a ban, led by the Geneva Disarmament Conference, has for 16 years been, to put it correctly, totally blocked. The Disarmament Conference is an institution with rigorous procedural rules, absolute consensus requirements, lack of transparency for the outside world and a limited circle of members of 65 countries. We believe that the situation has become unacceptable and clearly express this in the relevant forums. At the UN General Assembly last year, Norway, Austria and Mexico requested the establishment of a different format, with the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, if the Disarmament Conference remains locked. The proposal was controversial, but much indicates an ever-increasing international upsurge in finding alternative solutions to the current state of play in these important discussions. Norway plays an active role in the disarmament process. Let me mention three concrete examples in response to the interpellant challenge: The Norwegian-British cooperation on the verification of nuclear disarmament: the aim here is to identify practical and technical prerequisites for countries that do not have nuclear weapons to check that nuclear weapons countries actually live up to their disarmament obligations. This is a work to provide practical answers to a task many have rejected as impossible. It's not. Norway is also working systematically to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons in NATO. We believe it serves the alliance to adapt to today's challenges, the evolution of the threat picture and the global non-proliferation regime. The appearance and functioning of NATO as a more modern security organisation is important for its effectiveness and reputation in the future. However, nuclear weapons, in addition to conventional ones, still constitute the declared basis for the deterrence the alliance exercises in order to safeguard the security of the Member States. There will still be strong dissent among NATO Member States. Norway is actively working to establish cooperation and contacts across groups and regions. We support research environments, international organisations and civil society actors and contribute to this debate and commitment. Finally, the inter-pellant asks about the time perspective for the organisation of negotiations on a ban on nuclear weapons. As outlined, the government is continuously working along several tracks to achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. We want a real total ban and are actively working both to create a political basis and to make it possible to get there. But we have to realize at the same time that it can still take time. Much must be done before we have a nuclear-free world, not least we must have a stronger international opinion that can strengthen non-proliferation. Here we all have a role to play, and I would like to thank the interpellant again for helping to put this topic on the agenda – thus strengthening the Norwegian voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1067	It is customary to thank the Council of State for the answer. I just want to stress that it is a very sincere thank you for a clear, informative and politically promising answer. I particularly welcome the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is raising the humanitarian aspects of the use of nuclear weapons. I agree with the plans for a conference here in Oslo on nuclear weapons with a humanitarian problem as an approach. It is absolutely right that civil society is becoming very important to illuminate and understand this perspective in the disarmament process. That popular mobilization and commitment and active civil society are absolutely crucial, I am very pleased that the government is so clearly on and set the premise for progress in global disarmament work. I am also pleased to point out the need for the Non-Proliferation Agreement to have real legitimacy and integrity and the political problems that result from the failure to comply with the agreement, that Norway has so clearly criticised the lack of progress in the Geneva Disarmament Conference, and that together with Mexico and Austria we have called for a new regime of other rules – that is good. Norway must continue this work. Norway must continue to press for more applicable progress rules so that the increasing international upsurge in finding alternative routes of disarmament can bear fruit. Finally, there is quite a broad consensus in Norway about both the vision of a nuclear-free world and the importance of pushing not only in rhetoric but in clear political action and dialogue — including with our allies, of which more are nuclear powers. The fact that we are pushing this way has not always been a ‘zeitgeist’ in Norwegian policy, to put it this way. I just want to remind you that to stress the importance of the government being so clear, and that the great commitment of the peace movement and civil society must continue. Then I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1080	Only two reflections on the debate: one is that it sounds almost paradoxical to discuss the humanitarian aspects of the use of nuclear weapons. It goes without saying that it's not very humanitarian. But once we've done that, it's because we want to apply a very important court in international relations, namely humanitarian law. When we talk about humanitarian disarmament, it is not because we need to equip ourselves humanitarianally, but because humanitarians must inspire disarmament. The Landmine Convention and then the Class Arms Convention were very importantly lifted up by it, where the International Red Cross Committee, which administers the Geneva Convention, played an important role. That's why last year's decision is so important in the follow-up, because it builds a broader basis than the traditional we've had. I'm looking at this as if we've hooked on a new engine in the disarmament work. My second point of this debate is this: I think we should continue that around 1990, when the cold war was over, parts of civil society and opinion turned away from the question of nuclear disarmament. Fear of nuclear war between the East and the West, between the two parties to the Cold War, waned, and many turned their engagement to other areas, such as climate work, human rights and the fight against poverty — important works in itself. What is important now is to get the matter back on the agenda with new, knowledge-based and ethical commitment from civil society. Then I think it's important to realize that young people like to take on that kind of commitment, but those who actually raise this debate today are all of them, the oldest among us. Recently there was an article by Helmut Schmidt and Sam Nunn – and the former is 94 years old – with a very clear articulate vision of a world without nuclear weapons. People who have been called hawks in the United States, Henry Kissinger and George Shultz have also put this agenda in the international debate. We should also remember that Ronald Reagan, in Reykjavik in 1986, was the first – along with Gorbachev – to articulate the vision of a world without nuclear weapons, which President Obama repeated in his speech in Praha in April 2009. He said at the same time that this hardly happened in his generation, that it was far ahead. But without the vision being a world without nuclear weapons, we have no direction to go in the disarmament process – and without direction, politics becomes quite meaningless. So I think we have the prerequisites for lifting this up now with a new engine in work, humanitarian law, and a new appeal for civil society involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1087	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing this issue, which is important, but also difficult. It is a theme that was on the agenda of the 1970s, and after three decades of progress and hope to break the arms spiral from the cold days of the war, the first decade of this new century became a lost decade for the disarmament struggles. The 1970s gave us the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the first agreement on the reduction of strategic arsenals, SALT I. The 1990s gave us a probationary agreement, START II and the Land Mines Convention and a halving of military material in Europe. Then came the New York terrorist attack in the fall of 2001. There was also an impact on nuclear disarmament. The non-proliferation supervisory conference of the non-proliferation agreement in 2005 ended without results. One encouragement came to the end that this lost decades: the Convention on Class Weapons, where not least Norway was a driving force. In recent years, we have seen that the issue of nuclear disarmament has been raised on the political agenda. The worrying nature of this is linked to the serious concerns surrounding the nuclear programmes of North Korea and Iran. The happy part of it is that the American president has revitalized the vision of a world without nuclear weapons, and that his new nuclear strategy reduces and limits the role of nuclear weapons in the security policies of the countries. The same thing was done in NATO's new strategic concept, but it would have been desirable if NATO had gone so far that they had declared that the alliance in its strategic concept had renounced the first use of nuclear weapons. There's more to do in that arena. A step in the right direction is also that the United States and Russia have concluded an agreement that reduces the number of nuclear weapons deployed by one third. The 2010 Supervisory Conference also gave some results. The action plan, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred, provides opportunities for further work, including: through the UN Secretary-General’s Nuclear Disarmament Plan. The Foreign Minister's idea of laying the humanitarian dimensions of the use of nuclear weapons at the heart of further work is good. It was this perspective that led to conventions against land mines and class weapons. Hiroshima and Nagasaki demonstrated in a gruesome way the humanitarian – or inhumane – consequences of nuclear use. Maybe this approach angle can also inflate more life into the popular support of a nuclear-free world, because it needs to be stronger if we're going to move on -- we need more Ole Koperitans. The decision of the Red Cross movement to work for a ban on nuclear weapons is thus a good start. The initiative taken by Norway with Austria and Mexico at the UN General Assembly last year to bring the Disarmament Conference out of its deadlock for too long must also be pursued. Winning up new thoughts requires patience and location to succeed. We must also continue to work in NATO to further reduce nuclear weapons' place in the alliance's plans and strategy. North Korea's nuclear programme is worrying. The same is true of Iran's nuclear program. I think it's just through conversations and negotiations we can achieve results. It is therefore gratifying that negotiations between the international community and Iran have started again after a break of more than one year. The US Secretary of State says there's still time for diplomacy. The question is whether there is any other dangerous road that is not too risky. The famous Israeli writer David Grossman recently warned in a thought - provoking chronicle against attacking the Iranian nuclear program with weapons power. What should Israel do if other neighbouring countries, such as Saudi Arabia, were to acquire nuclear weapons, he asked. There's every reason to fear an Iran with nuclear weapons. But there is also every reason to fear what might be the consequences of a military attack to prevent it, not least for Israel itself. However, the prospects of resolving the fundamental conflicts across the region can also be seriously damaged. A broad consensus has been reached on the elimination of landmines and class weapons from the humanitarian consequences of the use of such weapons. Let's hope the conference the government is planning in Oslo next year to highlight just this point, the inhumane aspects of nuclear weapons, can help even more people to work for a new move towards a great vision – a world without the threat of nuclear weapons representing us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1110	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important and topical issue. Nuclear weapons have a destructive force that far surpasses other weapons we know, and that will lead to a disaster that is almost beyond our comprehension if this were to be used in a conflict. Today – I guess that’s what’s a little bit of a starting point as well – we have two tough international situations that include nuclear weapons, i.e. Iran and North Korea. It's important to have visions and goals, but I think the path to these visions is long. I think it is very important to have a realistic starting point when you start that way, so that you get a lasting disarmament and – if necessary – a lasting agreement. We have seen from history that many different types of agreements can be concluded, but they have little value if they are not respected and respected. Therefore, the objective itself may not be an agreement or a convention, although it may be an important means and objective. The goal must be to have real control — a real restriction, a real disarmament — and eventually, possibly, the abolition of nuclear weapons. I can go back to, for example. 1928 with the Kellogg-Brian Pact between European countries. It was believed that an agreement was what established peace in Europe. Then ten to twelve years went by, and the same countries were in full war with each other. My point, therefore, is that an agreement in itself does not guarantee peace. What guarantees peace is that the states involved have a real will and a real interest in fulfilling what you come up with. I also fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that it is important that it is the countries that this actually applies, which are the central actors in this. It helps very little that all the other countries in the world decide not to have nuclear weapons, if the countries that actually have nuclear weapons do not agree with it, and do not see their security needs being met by the agreements that are concluded. Today, Russia and the United States have 95 pst. of all the nuclear weapons in the world. If there is any chance to achieve the goal, these two countries are the key countries, by providing mutual disarmament between these two countries. NATO has its strategy. You have a combination of conventional weapons and nuclear weapons, but at the same time you have a vision in the long term – and share it with the United States and Obama – about finally getting there that you're without nuclear weapons. But as long as there are nuclear weapons in the world, NATO also says you want it. The interpellant referred to the agreement against class bombs and landmines and the role of Norway in this. I don't think this comparison is quite easy to make, that Norway should play a similar role in nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons have a completely different strategic significance for the major powers, including a completely different military significance, I think. That's why I think this is the seventh and last major act -- the drive and push of other states -- especially the United States and Russia, which must have an interest in reducing and having a real will to do something about it. There is a positive process in the new START agreements in the field of long-range strategic nuclear weapons. It may be important to continue the constructive process under way. There are two new states that have just received nuclear weapons, or are on their way to get it – North Korea and Iran. It's a little reassuring to world peace. One of the things you fear is that these weapons can spread to unstable and totalitarian regimes, where it is hard to predict how they will be used, and to understand many of the threats that are being posed. Part of this is probably internal medicine. Any totalitarian regime needs an external enemy. Iran has almost declared war on Israel since 1979, after the revolution, and has claimed that they will destroy Israel, while the country's nuclear weapons program can now destabilize the whole region. It's already created a threatening situation. For Israel, the great risk lies, of course, in Iran's long-range missiles combined with nuclear weapons, but also in the fact that nuclear weapons can be carried near the borders of Israel, for example. through Hezbollah. It is important for the international community to have a clear and clear position and to take the necessary measures to avert or prevent the development of the situation. I think the most constructive approach to nuclear disarmament is through being pragmatic, taking one step at a time. The key premise is that Russia and the United States are able to agree, that the steps taken must meet the security needs of both countries and maintain a balance in the downturn. Here Norway should stay within the framework of NATO and the United States, and not play its own solo game outside them. Today, it may be very important to focus on Iran and North Korea.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1140	The interpellant addresses an important and difficult question. The Committee visited Japan — including Hiroshima — in September 2010 and was able to see both historical sites and talk to survivors. There were strong meetings, which tell something about what a huge challenge and threat nuclear weapons actually represent. Today, the entire non-proliferation regime, in particular represented by the NPT, is experiencing a strong pressure. Some countries represent ongoing and recurring challenges. There are differences between the countries that possess nuclear weapons. Many countries have gradually become unstable regimes, where nuclear weapons are in the hands of states that are not aware of their intentions. Let me start with Iran. The situation is very serious and also very demanding. Iran has developed significant capacity to enrich uranium for weapons purposes. The intent of the nuclear programme is unknown, but it is very serious with the continuous revelations of new, hidden installations and increased capacity. The IAEA is denied access to its facilities, and Iran is also willing to sell technology and equipment to other countries. We must also remember that Israel and other countries in the region are experiencing an existential threat. I believe that sometimes it is difficult for us to take into account what it means for Israel – and also for other countries. The danger of a nuclear arms race in the Gulf and the Middle East is real. There is a considerable fear among the Arab states, and it is also, in my opinion, a downward spiral. This must also be seen in combination with missile technology. Iran has ballistic missiles, reaching NATO countries in south-east Europe, as well as a programme capable of providing capacity for the manufacture of intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of reaching Europe as a whole. In North Korea, we experience an extremely unpredictable situation. It is a completely closed country, where the formal deployment of Kim Jong-un a few days ago, with the failure to launch rockets, can lead to a further race, where the need to show that you can become stronger – with the risk it entails. It's repeated provocations. There is no transparency or control from international actors, and there is also access to advanced missile technologies. Pakistan is a country of constant concern for who has command and control associated with nuclear weapons. It is a country of deep instability, with considerable power struggles, and the military has a very central role. On our own continent, the challenge is, in particular, Cortangular and Tactical Russian weapons, which are not part of the START II agreement. Old weapons are eventually a significant risk, not least environmental — even for that reason. Norway has been very active towards Russia through constructive cooperation in the north on ship decommissioning and waste. It is important to maintain this active position. There is a broad consensus that Norway should play an active role in reducing the number and importance of nuclear weapons. There is also a broad consensus on a vision of a nuclear-free world, a vision to which several of the world's nuclear weapons states, among which Norway's closest allies, have joined. At the same time, there is a need for realism when discussing nuclear weapons. Since 1949, Norway and the rest of the West have been part of a defence and security deterrent doctrine that has been firmly rooted in the use of nuclear weapons. The 2010 NATO strategic concept commits the alliance to the objective of facilitating a world without nuclear weapons, but at the same time: the alliance still defines an appropriate allocation of conventional capacities and nuclear capabilities as a core element in its deterrent doctrine. This, according to the new strategic concept, will remain the situation as long as nuclear weapons continue to exist. Norway cannot and should not seek to define its role and responsibilities in this context. So we're still on the inside of a security guarantee, which in extreme cases can lead to the use of nuclear weapons. We must be aware of that. Attempts to underplay or double-communise around this are unfortunate. Norway has its influence through multilateral fora, not alone. We need to be a constructive and realistic partner of cooperation and to push where possible. We must use institutional and operational bodies, and NATO is particularly important here. This is a work that requires a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1172	Let me first thank the interpellant for taking up today's status and time perspectives in the future in the work on a ban on nuclear weapons. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough answer. Nuclear weapons represent a serious threat. The humanitarian consequences of a nuclear war are disastrous. Nevertheless, after World War II we have seen that several countries have acquired nuclear weapons. The non-proliferation agreement is an important contractual instrument to prevent further dissemination, but not all countries would commit to this agreement. Norway has committed itself to the agreement. We have chosen to abandon nuclear weapons in our own defense. We will be supporting players in international non-proliferation work. But it is not enough to prevent further dispersal; we also need to take new steps to limit this threat. Our goal is to ban nuclear weapons. The agreement on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is our main instrument in this area of negotiation. Unfortunately, this agreement has been under pressure for a long time. The 2010 Supervisory Conference was therefore important to ensure the credibility of the agreement. Norway took an active part in the preparation of the final document of the Conference of Supervisors. We have to admit that the result was not as offensive as we would have liked. Nevertheless; the final document is unambiguous in the goal of a nuclear-free world, and that's good. The final document also contains an action plan of 64 points covering both disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use of nuclear power, which is also good. It provides at least one basis for further work on nuclear weapons. In addition, I would like to refer to the five-point plan of the UN Secretary-General. It calls for negotiations on a nuclear convention. It is also a step forward in the non-proliferation process. But we must note that central negotiating bodies have failed. This applies not least to the Geneva Disarmament Conference. Unfortunately, it has been the nearest activator for more than 15 years. Only 65 countries are members. It has lacked transparency for the outside world, and rigid procedural rules and consensus requirements make it unable to deliver. I have listened with interest to the Foreign Minister's reply today. It is good that you have ambitions, but even though the work against nuclear weapons in various forms is being lifted up in some forums, we have to admit that it is far ahead, as he also said. Developments in the field have been contrasting in the last decades. There are ever new countries trying to get nuclear weapons. In today's situation, Iran and North Korea are the main concerns that have been raised by several representatives. The Islamic regime in Iran is a threat to both its own people and international peace. I guess the uprooted communist regime in North Korea is even worse. There the people starve because the generals and the great leaders use the resources of military power madness to hold themselves to power. The long-term objective of a convention against nuclear weapons is important, the fight against disarmament is even more urgent. None of the parts must be forgotten. At the same time, we have to take new steps to build down the arsenals of nuclear weapons. The goal of a nuclear-free world lies ahead for a while. In the meantime, we need to take new, yet important, steps towards progressive international disarmament in the area of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1198	Thanks to the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen for continuing a very important tradition, namely that we regularly have interpellation debates on the nuclear problem. Thanks also for an unusually good response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Disarmament and non-proliferation have always been the focus of Norway, both political authorities, civil society and the Norwegian people. A poll from some years back showed that 92 pst. stated that Norway was to work actively for a ban on nuclear weapons. Actually, it's been a while. Norway has, as many have mentioned, strong popular movements engaged in the fight against nuclear weapons. It's been quite significant, because this is one of the most important issues of our time. We have a political and moral responsibility to keep it on the agenda, and to contribute in all the relevant forums that are possible, to the reduction, arms control, non-proliferation and complete elimination of nuclear weapons. In the examination of the disarmament message in the previous period, a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee underlined that the objective was a nuclear-free world, and stressed that although we must fight all kinds of weapons of mass destruction, nuclear weapons remain in a special position in terms of death and destruction. The Committee considered that the Non-Proliferation Agreement itself is the cornerstone of the work to prevent the proliferation and safe reduction of nuclear weapons and that a Convention prohibiting all nuclear weapons must be considered in the long term. Following the decline of the 2005 Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference, the last Supervisory Conference in 2010 was a move because it concluded that the objective is a world without nuclear weapons. The final document is a 64-point action plan, such as: includes both disarmament and non-proliferation. The final document also refers, as several have said here, to the five-point plan for the UN Secretary-General, such as the United Nations Secretary-General. proposes negotiations on a nuclear convention. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the 2010 Supervisory Conference was crucial for the credibility of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Norway also played a central role in the negotiations. In addition, I am very pleased that last year Norway in the United Nations voted in favour of the resolutions of the New Agenda Coalition and Japan respectively for the complete abolition of nuclear weapons. So I would like to stress that the Foreign Minister has so strongly underlined the disastrous humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons. I believe that in many ways this is a breakthrough in the debate on the disarmament of nuclear weapons. Disarmament and non-proliferation are also humanitarian policies, and part of our civil protection. The reduction of the world’s nuclear arsenals is also climate policy – it also placed the emphasis on interpellant. Nuclear weapons are not just the ultimate weapons of mass destruction, but we must deal with our work on non-proliferation and disarmament both as security policies, as environmental policies, as anti-terrorism measures and as part of our preparedness policy. Nuclear waste in North-West Russia is perceived by the non-proliferation regime, which, if the right people get it, is one of the easiest things to do with so-called ‘dirty bombs’. This is why our efforts to contribute to nuclear clean-up in North-West Russia are an important part of our health and environmental policies, and, in addition, prevention of terrorism. Finally, a witness report from Hiroshima of August 1945 on the destruction of a school: Out of 300 students, 17 survived in the first few minutes. The air was soot, ash, dust – everything was a terrifying darkness. From the atomic cloud comes the unfathomable thunder. Cruel smell and taste spread. Glass pieces fly with a force that takes life where something is still alive. Buildings had evaporated in pieces. The ground was ground and burned roots. People who were not dead were dragging themselves against sources of water. – In truth, a humanitarian disaster. I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister today says that in order to remove nuclear weapons, a legally binding instrument is needed that regulates the conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1227	Thank you for a very good debate, which not only contained broad consensus and nuances, but also traces of disagreement, which is also very nice to have discussed and made visible. I'm going to try not to repeat myself at the end -- I only have three summarising points that I want to mention. One is that today is Global Day of Action on Military Spending. It may be possible to include as one of the pillars of the debate. There are huge sums used on nuclear weapons, sums that are still used by the British government. It announced in 2008 that new nuclear submarines would be built that would be used for over 600 billion. kr from the United Kingdom. Such sums are used in many countries, and there are money that could have been spent on measures that provide people with work, health care and better life. So the debate on nuclear weapons is also a debate on what priorities world leaders are doing, on how the logic of nuclear upgrading leads to resource use and re-priorities that are at the expense of humanity – not only potential but actually – even today. The second is that I would like to thank you for very good contributions from those who have taken part in the debate. I think the committee leader had very fine considerations. Then I am very pleased with the contributions of the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who so well formulated why the upgrading process threatens the Middle East, and how the way out is not war on Iran, but international cohesion and dialogue. That he raised Ole Kopreitan was, of course, also very nice. The third is that I do not agree with the Progress Party on how to proceed. First of all, I believe it is very important that states without nuclear weapons are drivers and take ownership of this matter. This is also a question of our security. The nuclear threat is not limited to the respective population of the nuclear powers. Politically, it is easier for us atomic-free states' governments to build international anchorages for disarmament in real terms. This does not conflict with the fact that it is very important to e.g.: The United States and Russia themselves must take the initiative and themselves must make progress. I think it is very close and should not be set up against each other. Taking concrete initiatives, doing what Norway did in the United Nations last year, I don't think it's solo, I don't think it's alone. I believe that on the contrary is taking responsibility for getting rid of a fundamental threat that threatens us all, whether we are nuclear powers or not. That is why I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his approach. I believe Norway is on the verge of being a propellant and becoming even more so in the future. Thank you for a very good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1244	In conclusion, in addition to thanking you for a good debate, I would like to say something about the work in NATO ahead of the Chicago Summit next month. Norway, together with close allies, has contributed to reducing the importance of nuclear deterrence in the strategic doctrine of the alliance. Among other things, we have called for so-called negative security guarantees, which clarify that the nuclear deterrence of the alliance does not address countries which do not have nuclear weapons themselves and fulfil their non-proliferation obligations. Another point is that we've been working to get NATO on a permanent basis a body in which the Alliance discusses its work in the light of developments in disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control. Thirdly, together with the Polish Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have taken an initiative for a specific initiative on cortical nuclear weapons that is not currently subject to any arms control regime. This initiative has been welcomed, and I hope that Chicago will facilitate transparency and confidence in Russia, which will eventually lead to the reduction and removal of all correlative nuclear weapons from Europe. We don't know how many of them are, and we don't know where they're located. It has to be on the agenda. NATO has an impact on NPT and non-proliferation. What is happening in NATO and in the Member States is noticed in the rest of the world – more than many in NATO may be aware of. A clearly reduced emphasis on nuclear weapons by NATO is important in order to maintain the uptake of the non-proliferation regime, for the NPT, in order to maintain political pressure, among other things. Iran and North Korea and to strengthen international nuclear safety work. So here it's an NPT triangle, where the states that have, rust down, those that don't, don't seek to get, and those that need civil force, get it in inspection and reassuring circumstances. These must work together, and that is what Norway's ambition must be to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1257	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1273	This interpellation, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, was originally addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Development, but is now being answered, after the transformation of the government, by the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1276	As most people know, there will always be a risk of talking warmly about their own sick mother, in this case the municipality of South Varanger, as most people understand that I live and live there. Of course, I would like to talk about what growth opportunities we have, and not least about our beautiful nature. But when it's the death ore from the east that once again threatens, and it's our own nature that's being used as a garbage dung by Norilian Nickel and Russia, yes, then this has to be given top priority. There is little help with North-Area bets and parties where the Kirkenes and South-Varangs are declared the bridgehead to the east and the bet area, if the pollution of Nikel and Zapoljarnij continues to destroy the environment in South-Varangs and finally destroys all opportunities for development and growth. For whom will such pollution establish itself? As I see it, nothing positive has happened in terms of emissions of sulphur and heavy metals from Nikel, in the nearly seven years of this government's reign. Absolute zero has been achieved with the SV in the driver’s seat and with the Minister for Environmental Protection over seven years. But it is not only SV who bears a responsibility in this matter. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs bear special responsibility for the non-implementation of this. Each of us has a responsibility that this has not been implemented. Unfortunately, emissions have increased, and we are back today at the same level in terms of emissions of sulphur dioxide and heavy metals as we were 20 years ago, when the ‘Stop Deadly Clouds’ action was established. It was amazing to consider our former environmental protection minister Solheim traveling the earth over and over again with his own chosen hope of journalists as a tailhang, almost to save everything from our rainforests to ice melting in the Arctic and Antarctica and at the same time not being able to clean up the pollution of Nikel on his own way home. It is a paradox that Norway is building and financing the Russian border station, funding the roads into Russia, financing the mobile network coverage in Russia and spending billions of dollars on nuclear waste treatment, while, as a nation, we are unable to clean the discharges from Norilsk Nickel and allow the municipality of Norway and South Varanger to be used as dung. Nor does it help that our foreign minister frequents the area with visits. Emissions do not stop for that reason, and none – absolutely none – shall come and tell me that these emissions would be accepted 10–15 km from Frogner or Oslo. We regularly talk to the Russians about the problem, and want to get ahead of work, claims the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. How long are they going to talk? There has been talk and talk about this for more than 20 years – no one can complain about a lack of dialogue. But is it not high time to realise the clean-up of emissions now and not after nature has been subjected to irreparable damage? A new report from the Norwegian Institute of Air Research shows that emissions are as bad or worse than before. And what is "before" in this context? Yes, ‘before’ means the time when the worst emissions occurred and the nickel installation did not use local ores. The ore used then, and today, has a sulphur content of at least 30 pst. higher than the local one and not least has devastating effects on nature and the environment. We're talking about an annual emission of 100,000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide. The air in Nikel contains more than 20 times as much sulphur as what we in Norway think is advisable, but this does not apply only to Nikel. In the east/south-east and south directions, we, Pasvikdalen, Kirkenes, Jarfjord area, Sør-Varanger, Norway, are exposed. Then you can ask about that fund of $300 million. kr, as Norway established in 2003, has become a sleep cushion – or I will call it a political derailment or a indulgence – not least with the background that the two largest owners of Norilsk Nickel, Vladimir Potanin and Oleg Deripaska have more than enough capital themselves. Deripaska is the world's 57th richest and good for 61 billion. kr, while Potanine follows four positions at the rear, with an estimated property of 59 billion. kr – if we are to believe in Forbes’ list of the world's richest, according to the Times of the World. The nickel mill is owned by ousted oligarchs who hardly deal with today’s debate — or other demands for purification. That is why this must be the top priority on the political agenda between Norway and Russia. Here, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Environment have to ask for something back from the Russian authorities. I'm asking for results, not just dialogue. It is time for the Russian authorities to understand that it is impossible to talk about environmental cooperation in the north of oil and gas, and in the nuclear waste sector, without a clean-up of the emissions of Norilsk Nickel. When the Russians choose a strategy that is only about training year after year, Norway – including both growth and government – must take a joint responsibility. To give an example of what I call Norwegian emergency, I would like to refer to the Ministry of the Environment, the Government, the report on everything from trade, border crossing, economics and industry in Northwest Russia where the nickel works are mentioned with one sentence on the first page, and then disappear completely in the rest of the document. Then it becomes understandable that nothing is happening at all. We can now only imagine what damage and consequences the emissions of sulphur dioxide and other heavy metals will have for the environment in South Varanger. It's not CO2 emissions from cars I'm talking about in this case, but about one of the absolutely worst pollutants in Europe – perhaps the worst. If Norwegian standards were to be followed, parts of the population in Norway had to be evacuated almost every time the wind direction leads dirt to Norway. During periods, clothes cannot be suspended until dry – the clothing becomes yellow. On the worst days, people stay inside, too heavy and teeth crackling in the sulphur. What health problems the population is exposed to, we can only imagine. What about the reindeer in Pasvik and other game like elk, ripen and big bird, and locally based food? Of course, water quality is getting much worse than it would normally be. The soil becomes acidic and erodes away. Pasvikelva, Karpelva and Grense Jakobselv are at risk of acidification and contamination. The mountain waters of which we have many are in danger of becoming fish empty, and mules, berries and mushrooms can soon be forgotten both to pick and to eat. With all the respect I can offer – that's not how we build our societies and our growth in the north. It would be very interesting to hear the Minister for the Environment's concrete plans and attitudes, as well as dialogue – as I said, it has not been the one that has been missing, we should believe in the U.D.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1314	I want to first thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. The high emissions from the Norilian Nickel Group's plant in Nikel and Zapoljarnij continue to arouse concern in the government and in the people of East Finland. This is a very difficult matter in the environmental cooperation between Russia and Norway, and it is a burden in the good neighbourly relationship we otherwise have with Russia. I would like to stress that this is a matter in which all Norwegian governments have followed a clear and consistent line, based on broad political unity. For the government, it is a high priority to find a solution that takes care of health and the environment in the border area and that benefits a good neighbourly relationship. As Fredriksen's representative points out, it's been working on this for a very long time. But even though we're not yet in the goal, it's actually found some reductions in emissions. Since they were at their height in the 1980s, sulphur dioxide emissions have been reduced by three quarters. Much of this decline is due to the transition to a more sulfur-depleted ore, but some emission reduction measures have not been implemented. Nevertheless, the annual emissions of sulphur dioxide are still approx. 100000 tonnes, roughly equal to five times the total Norwegian emissions. Heavy metal falls also appeared to have increased in recent years. From the Norwegian side, we see that the pollution situation in the border area is still unacceptable. In 2010, it was clear that the modernisation project agreed in 2001 and containing a Norwegian grant of up to 270 million. kr, would not be realised. The project was to modernise the two of Norilsk Nickel’s near-border facilities, in Nikel and Zapoljarnij, and goes under the common denominator of Petschenganikel. This would ensure 90 pst. the purification of sulphur dioxide and heavy metals emissions from the two plants by 2010, in relation to the level in 1999. The project was constantly delayed, which was mainly due to a lack of willingness on the part of the company to take investment decisions. When it was clear that the agreed deadlines were exceeded, Norwegian aid was withdrawn. The additions that had been paid out, together approx. 47 million. NOK, was refunded by Norilsk Nickel autumn 2010. But as a result, the group was no longer bound by the obligations it had previously assumed to reduce emissions. A new briquetting plant in Zapoljarnij is expected to be operational during 2012. This means that a host will virtually all of its emissions from there on today approx. 45000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide per year, which will mean a strong local improvement of the environment. But since the briquettes from Zapoljarny end up in the melting rooms of Nikel, Nikel's emission will increase until an upgrade of the melting plant itself is completed there. Norilsk Nickel has not informed what measures they will take to reduce emissions from Nikel, but has said that they will upgrade the melting plant and reduce emissions with a lower level of ambition and a longer schedule than agreed in 2001. Since it was clear that Norilian Nickel did not intend to comply with the agreements, we have increased the pressure on Russian government forces to make them impose stricter emission requirements on the group. The government has systematically brought matters up against its Russian counterparts in a clear way. The Prime Minister has taken up the matter both with Prime Minister Putin and with President Medvedev. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has done the same to his Russian colleague several times, and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade has brought matters to the attention of the Norwegian-Russian Economic Commission. The case is also a fixed agenda item for the bilateral Environment Commission meetings. This continuing political pressure has undoubtedly contributed to the fact that Russian government powers have gradually begun to show the problems of emissions at borders. I'd like to give Bellona credit for their efforts to draw attention to the environmental and health-damaging emissions from nickel production in Kola. There is an important part of the work being done by the Norwegian team. The Joint Declaration of Medvedev's visit to Norway in April 2010 states that emissions from nickel production at borders give cause for concern and must be brought down to a level that does not harm the health and environment of the border area and that a Russian side will help to implement the necessary measures to reduce emissions. Furthermore, there is agreement to obtain objective information on the emission level, to strengthen further control and to strengthen environmental monitoring in the border area. The Joint Declaration represents a breakthrough, as Russia, at the highest political level, acknowledges that nickel production is a source of concern and that the Russian side has a responsibility to bring it down to an acceptable level. After the President's visit, we have mainly directed our efforts towards the follow-up to the Joint Declaration. But neither has this proved to be easy. Because of the negative attitude of Norilsk Nickel, the creation of a joint working group, which was signed last year by the Norwegian-Russian Government Commission for Economic Cooperation, has not been closed. The working group was to be composed of Norwegian and Russian experts and representatives of the Board of Directors and Norilsk Nickel. In the last meeting, on 2 March this year, of the Norwegian-Russian Government Commission, which was leased by Russia's first Deputy Minister of State Viktor Zubkov and Minister of Food and Trade Trond Giske, the lack of progress was lamented. The two decided that the working group had to be set up. Norilsk Nickel was represented at the high level of the meeting, and Zubkov gave direct instructions that the company now had to take responsibility and participate in the working group. That's where things are now. The Ministry of the Environment is working closely with the Russian side to create and hire the working group for concrete results. We will take the initiative for a first expert meeting in the near future to lay the foundation for this work. As the interpellant points out, there can be no doubt that the group has the financial capacity to implement the necessary measures. What is so far lacking is the willingness to prioritise health and the environment rather than short-term profit. It is worth noting that Norilsk Nickel is also part of a melting plant in Finland that operates according to EU standards. It is, to be honest, a mystery to me that a business within such a profitable industry, with local ore reserves expected to last for 40–60 years, and responsible for the working environment and well-being of two communities, has not carried out far-reaching modernisation of production. Raw materials and energy would have been more efficient, the work environment drastically improved and impregnable emissions greatly reduced. From the Norwegian and Nordic sides, technical solutions have been provided several times that can release from Nikel at the desired level before acceptable cost frameworks. It is known that there is an intense conflict between Russian government powers and industry in connection with the Russian government's proposed changes to environmental legislation that will result in stricter emission conditions and stronger criminal responses to companies that break the terms. Norilian Nickel is an important actor in that game. As I have done well, this is a difficult matter, which does not have simple solutions. I'm glad that Russian powers have now begun to become more aware of the emission problems at the borders, but there is a lot left. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to exert political pressure, so that we can solve the problems of pollution caused by the nickelworks in Kola, which are a burden on our good neighbourly relationship with Russia and, of course, a major problem for the population and nature in East Finland. We will also support initiatives that can improve environmental awareness and knowledge as a basis for improvements in the working environment and the external environment of the population on the Russian side. From the Norwegian side, we would like to have the best possible dialogue with both the Russian government and the company and share our experience with a view to finding good solutions. We will continue to exert a strong political pressure. However, I would like to stress that it is the responsibility of the Norilic Nickel Group and the Russian Governing Forces to ensure that emissions come down to a level that does not harm human beings and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1350	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, even though I see it as little concrete, and that it consists essentially of dialogue and attempts at dialogue with the Russian authorities and Norilsk Nickel. It is that Norway, as a nation, has been very aware of the pollution from both Zapoljarnij and Nikel and elsewhere in Russia all the way back from 1974. It is not a new matter that comes on the table, but it is a matter that can have very serious consequences, not least if we put this in context with a north-eastern action. We got a little cover in 2007 when it became attention around Norilsk Nickel, Nikel and Zapoljarnij, but it disappeared quite quickly. When the Russians claim that there has been a decrease in emissions, this is not due to cleaning or other measures. Actually, it's because you've been using local ore instead of death ore. There you have to keep your tongue right in your mouth, so that you actually know what you're talking about. Then it turns out that for the future Norilsk Nickel has plans to develop the last two large nickel mines that exist in Voronezh County, central Russia. When the mineral development is in progress there, the company will process pellets from there at the melting plant in Nikel. If the modernisation of the melting plant in Nikel is not implemented, further production will lead to a further 15 pst increase in pollution. That's why it's a pretty gloomy future we're going to face. Bellona is quite right, as the Council of State says, taking a commendable initiative, and is crystal clear in her attitudes. They are crystal clear that Nikel and pollution in Norway must be raised to the top level, and Norway cannot, in fact, accept that we as a nation should have an environmental cooperation with Russia in oil and gas and nuclear clean-up without imposing a requirement to clean up emissions in Nikel. It must be bombastic, and it must be quite concrete. If it doesn't, it'll never come into place, and we'll experience a nature that goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1363	What is very easy for me to understand is first of all the real problems that the emission of sulphur dioxide and the environmental status of the work in Nikel leads to East Finland, not least the Kirkenes area and the Pasvikdalen. What is also very easy for me to understand, is frustration as a feeling in the region, and as many people who work with this in the government, also feel after so many years without good enough results. The first time I visited the Churches, I talked to the civil society and politicians who took matters up. It's been quite many years. When I went up over the valley of Pasvik, I looked over at Nikel, and saw how close it was. So that side of the thing I understand. However, I do not agree that my review of the case was a little concrete, contrary to what I believe he was very concrete. I went through how we have worked politically many times a year systematically with the cause and picked it up. I reviewed the financial contributions and the agreement we had. But in common, we haven't had the political breakthrough and got the results we should have had, no matter what kind of government Norway has had in those years. Then the representative says that this must be lifted to the top level. What I went through shows that the case has been raised to the top level, unless the representative believes that there is a level above the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister of Norway, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Minister for the Environment have drawn it up at all levels, both in the daily bilateral cooperation and at political level. Just addressing matters in a more clear way towards Russian governance is a central part of the strategy now. Would that be easy? No, it'll be hard, but that's exactly why it's urgent, and it's important to follow it up systematically. Then I am personally overconfident that in this matter, towards a powerful and large neighbouring country and a large industrial group, it is enough to work politically and systematically against the governmental authorities and the company the tool we have. And we're going to keep doing that in the best possible way. Unless the representative and others in a completely different way think about how Norway should behave towards Russia in such a way, what is needed is to put the greatest possible pressure on the regimes, on the group, document the problems, continue to press and let it become part of the integrated cooperation with Russia just as we have done, so that it can become part of our collective economic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1374	The interpellant takes up a very important matter in this interview, and I know that this is a matter that both he and others have raised on previous occasions. I also understand the irritation and frustration in Finnmark about this situation, but I think that the Council of State came here with very strong clarifications about what has been done, and what plans are being made to do in the future. My first visit to Russia was in Nikel just over 20 years ago. At that time the environmental issues were not as central as they are now, but I remember being both frightened and surprised at what I saw. The greatest impression made it enough to hear about the consequences of emissions from the nickel plant for the health of people. There were problems with the airways, there were skin diseases, and there were many other diseases. Also, the effects of pollution on nature made a strong impression both on me and on the rest of the delegation that at the time was part of Nikel, which had environmental pollution as a theme. Pollution knows no borders, and there can be no doubt that Norway, and particularly Finnmark, have been affected by this throughout these years. This is a very important matter to follow up today, but I don't think the interpellant has any kind of basis to say that nothing has happened on the Russian side. I have also been in Nikel in recent years on some occasions, and I believe I can record an improvement in the environment with regard to air quality. I therefore believe that the Council of State is on a safe ground when he says that the emissions of sulphur have been reduced by three quarters since they peaked in the 1980s, but no one can settle down on this. This is where we have to move on. We are pleased that on many occasions the Norwegian side has taken great care of this and that it has been followed up. But we're probably not done with this job. Here it has not only been a party speaker, as the interpellant says, but continuous pressure over a long time. And of course, it's not that easy when this pollution happens in another country, to be able to control it as we think is right. It is also important, as has been said, that environmental organisations working internationally keep up-to-date with this development, so that both the company and Russian authorities feel a strong pressure to do more to prevent these emissions at regional and national level. Also, Russian authorities are becoming increasingly aware of what can be done to improve the environmental situation in their own countries, and I think that in the future they will do what is possible to appear to be a modern nation, including in this area, in the time to come. I am pleased that the Norwegian Government is keeping pressure on this matter, and that there is dialogue with the Russian authorities on how we can quickly limit emissions further in Nikel. Without dialogue, we're not going anywhere. What is the alternative to dialogue in this matter? I think the interpellant has to say a little bit about that. This is largely a matter of concern to both Norway and Russia and to those living on both sides of the border. We must all try to solve this through a strong and good dialogue with our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1397	Pollution is known to have no borders. An ambitious environmental policy with strict emission requirements for own industry is of little help if emissions come from other countries. We do, among other things. For a long time in South Africa, where acid rains from the continent, especially from countries in Central and Eastern Europe, caused salmon to be wiped out of several rivers and streams. Fortunately, emissions of sulphur dioxide and other environmentally harmful emissions have now fallen as a result of the rapid technological development and closure of old, impurising industries in Central and Eastern Europe. In Finnmark, unfortunately, they still wear with significant impurities and acid rains from neighbouring countries. The serious environmental pollution in terms of sulphur emissions from the Russian industry in Nikel, just a few kilometres from the Norwegian border, has been on the political agenda for a long time. Already in 1989-1990, the Syse government took the initiative that Norway should contribute financially to reducing the environmentally harmful emissions close to the Norwegian border from the then Soviet Union. This pollution is not a major problem for Russia alone, it is also a major problem for Norway. In 1999, an agreement was reached with Russia on the construction of a new reindeer furnace and associated sulphur plant in Nikel. The investments were planned for about $93.5 million and were to be financed with Norwegian subsidies of $270 million. kr, Sweden's $3 million premium and the Nordic Investment Bank's $30 million loan. The rest was to be financed as an asset from the Russian company Norilsk Nickel. This would reduce emissions from the smelting plant of sulphur dioxide, dust and heavy metals by at least 90 pst. in relation to 1999, if the project was completed. This would significantly improve health and the environment locally in the Kola peninsula and for the environment in Finnland. The reconstruction started in 2002, and about six months later she started. Unfortunately, the project received a long number of new delays as a result of technical problems on the Russian side. Delays have also led to increased costs. In the 2010 budget proposal, the Stortinget was made aware that since the lease in the Norilsk group had not yet taken a position on the future of the Nikel melting plant, modernisation of the melting plant, in line with the agreement with Norway, was no longer relevant. The time was too short for a modernized melting plant meeting the environmental objectives of the agreement with Norway to be completed in 2010. Right-wing government's decision to wind up the Norwegian aid for modernising the melting plant in Nikel. The lack of progress on the Russian side, and not least that the owners of Norilsk Nickel have had large advances from the factory in recent years, makes it difficult to defend Norwegian funds for this project. The Russian industrial giant Norilsk Nickel is the world's largest producer of nickel and palladium and in 2010 had a turnover of $15 billion. It is therefore entirely possible for the person responsible for pollution to finance the necessary modernisation and clean-up measures. There should be absolutely forureinar paying. Unfortunately, after 20 years of negotiations on environmental measures, we experience that nothing has happened on the Russian side, despite the fact that both Norway and other Nordic countries have previously seen a fund for clean-up technology. Reducing emissions from the Kola Peninsula industry is primarily a Russian responsibility. That also applies to the financing. But that doesn't mean it's not an important task for Norwegian authorities to put pressure on Russia to take on their environmental responsibility. If we are to solve the problems of cross-border pollution, we are dependent on effective international agreements. That is why we have got the Kyoto agreement, which regulates greenhouse gas emissions, so we got the Montreal agreement, which regulates emissions of carbon-depleting gases, and that is why we have got the Gothenburg agreement, which regulates, among other things. emissions of NOx — to identify three in a long series of international agreements. That is why we are also dependent on an agreement with Russia, either a bilateral agreement or a more comprehensive multilateral international agreement, in order to reduce their sulphur emissions. A continuous, active policy towards Russia is important in order to put in place measures to reduce the sulphur emissions from Nikel. Unfortunately, experience so far has not been positive, but we must continue to make the Russians comply with their obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1423	It's a little bit interesting to listen to Bendiks Arnesen's comments. If he doesn't understand me correctly: I don't mean just dialogue, you actually have to do something with a real problem issue. When Bendiks Arnesen claims that Norway has put in place strong measures for purification in Nikel and Zapoljarnij, I would like to stress that we have known about the contamination from 1974 and have been active since 1990. Today we write 2012. Purification has not yet taken place. So what strong measures the Arnesen representative here refers to is completely unknown to me. It is still the case that no cleaning is available. When I'm talking about taking this case up at the top level – and I'm not just asking for a dialogue – it's because Norway is currently working with the Russians in the north in the field of oil and gas, and we have it in terms of nuclear clean-up. Norway has invested several billion dollars for clean-up. I have nothing against it. But when Norway has been involved in assisting and helping Russia in many areas over a period of almost 25 years, it should also be so that as a nation we can demand something back for the benefits we actually provide. This is not only a deficiency in relation to emissions from the Nikel plants, it is also a general deficit that Norwegian industry is calling for in almost any context. When Norway enters, we actually have to demand something back. All other countries – Finland does, Germany does, Sweden does. But Norway, which is a neighbour, does not. That's why I finally want to ask the question again: isn't it time for Norway as a nation to demand something back? We build the roads there, we build the border stations, we build mobile networks, we make a big contribution to health. It's all great. But should we at the same time allow the Russians to use a Norwegian municipality as a dumpster?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1432	Once again, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic, and thank you for the debate. But I have a couple of things to say about the claims that nothing is done, etc. As I said, it's easy to understand the frustration of missing results and the great challenges facing people in East Finland. It is also easy to understand when a person gets involved in it, the real problems of pollution that are created. But when changing governments for over 20 years have been working on it, with a broad range of instruments, it's not a lack of will, but a lack of ability of Russian authorities to do something about it. In this context, if we ignore more extreme instruments such as military power or boycott or things like that, it is mainly political and economic tools that a small country has in the meeting with a powerful industrial group and a powerful neighbour. When it comes to the political instruments, I have also done well to see how this has been a recurring theme for Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, Minister of Industry, Minister of Environment, Economic Cooperation, Environmental Cooperation – at all levels from top to day cooperation. On the economic side, we have concluded an agreement, some ten years ago, with Russia at a significant value, where we have invested money in cleaning, but they have still not fulfilled their obligations after that and therefore paid the money back again. I find it difficult to see good alternatives to going on more seriously, to evaluate the two tools and to press even harder on politics. Then the representative says that we have to demand something back. Yes, we have demanded the result back again. And when there was no result, we demanded the money back again, and we got it – just like we have to do. Then I understand that Fredriksen in two rounds suggests that since we have not got enough results here, we should – I understand him at least this way – let us continue our cooperation in other areas, for example. in the case of nuclear waste. I find it hard to understand that reducing another environmental problem is going to help us solve this environmental problem. I think that, on the contrary, would be a major mistake, because nuclear waste in the Kola Peninsula is also a massive environmental problem, and fortunately we have made significant progress and invested a great deal. So what we all have to do, is to know how important things are, to prioritise things high from all levels, to continue the rather heavy political dialogue we have at the highest level, to continue the political pressure, to take it up in everyday cooperation, to demand that emission reductions come into place, and that the company, which has great profitability, invests in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1444	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1460	Racism, discrimination and discrimination are diseases. These phenomena have existed in all societies throughout the year. Norwegian society is no exception. Both people with a majority background and persons with a minority background experience racism and discrimination. Racism in its various forms, i.e. discrimination, discrimination, xenophobia, cultural differences and different values, etc. must be combated, because this is as married to our society. Discrimination is a burden on interpersonal relations, which are themselves glued into a society. Racism and discrimination are driving people apart, and at worst against each other. It also means that society is missing out on precious resources that we need to maintain and strengthen the well-being of our country. The Official Journal of Bergen writes at its position on 18 March this year: ‘Let there be no doubt: Norwegian elderly care, district policy, industry, service industries and construction – to mention something – are now entirely dependent on migrant workers.’ In order to combat racism and discrimination, it is essential to recognise its existence, not least to identify it. In a chronicle, scientists Henrik Lunde and Guri Bente Haarberg write: ‘One of the challenges is to recognise that racism actually exists in the systems of which we are all part.’ The current Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, Audun Lightbakken, should be commended for addressing this societal problem. Profo researchers Jon Rogstad and Arnfinn H. Midtbøen recently carried out a research project to generate new knowledge of discrimination mechanisms in the Norwegian labour market. The objectives of the project are as follows: ‘On the one hand, the ambition is to identify the extent of ethnic discrimination and, on the other, to explore the forms of discrimination that are widespread. In addition, the aim of the project is to gain knowledge of the reasons why illegitimate discrimination occurs.’;» The results that were presented on 12 January this year were frightening to some of us. The current state councillor, Audun Lysbakken, said: "What I've seen here makes me both angry and worried. Concern that a whole generation of young people with a migrant background should not enter the labour market.» It also made me angry, and I hope that the Council of State Inga Marte Thorkildsen is as angry as we are. The researchers sent out job applications for 900 real job vacancies, both in the public and private sectors. However, they sent two identical, fictional applications for the same job. The two applications showed exactly the same language, education and work experience. The only thing that separated them was the name of the applicant. Each pair of applications had one jobseeker with a non-residential name, while the second name was Norwegian. The result showed that applicants with non-residential names have 25 pst. less likely to be invited to a job interview than applicants with Norwegian names. When Akhtar Chaudhry is not called for an interview, while Øyvind Korsberg is called, on the basis of exactly the same application, with exactly the same qualifications, it must be said that racism and discrimination are in force in the labour market in Norway. It's disappointing and alarming. I'm counting on the Thorkildsen State Council to share our vision here as well. That is why I am pleased that today the Council of State will share its thoughts with us – with the Stortinget – on how she will combat racism and discrimination in the labour market. I ask, is the Council of State as angry as its predecessor, and how does the Council of State interpret the findings of the project? What concrete action has been taken, or will be taken, and when, in order to combat racism and discrimination in the labour market? We know from experience that it is natural that people choose, point out, nominate or recruit people who are equal to themselves. It doesn't necessarily have to be a rash of racism, but we have to put ourselves in the applicants' position. How do they feel about being rejected just because they don't belong to the majority and don't have a proper name? When the majority of employers have a majority ethnic background, it means that extra effort is needed to make employers aware of the resources that we can miss by not considering that even those who have names not like themselves can actually have qualifications that employers need. All employers, but especially the public, have a moral responsibility here. At the time, I was a member of the City Development Committee in Oslo City Council. At a meeting, early in the city government period, I asked the manager if she had plans to recruit people with a minority background. It was obvious that the assembly was very surprised that an agency that worked for the day-to-day with control plans, lengths and heights, buildings and bridges, also thought that they had a social responsibility to recruit qualified, qualified people with a minority background. My question today to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the public takes this responsibility seriously? Will the Council consider imposing stricter requirements on public employers than those currently in existence? The trade union movement is an important player in the labour market. It is a major responsibility of the trade union movement for the non-discrimination of applicants with a minority background. The trade union movement is involved in recruitment processes. It's natural to challenge the trade movement here. As long as we are documented that the possibility of being invited to an interview falls by 25 pst. only because you have a foreign - language name, there is a need for the trade union movement to become more committed. Employers’ organisations are probably the most responsible. It's those who look after, and it's those who have to shake off their fixed positions. As I said, in addition to being morally reprehensible, racism and discrimination contribute to the waste of precious resources in our society. Finally, I would like to ask: how does the Council of State view the measures put forward by the researchers themselves? Will the Council of State clarify and extend the obligation of activity and reporting? Does the Council of State want the employer to justify the employment? Will the Council of State consider an order for the written submission of personal suitability requirements prior to calls for tenders? Will the Council consider removing the differences in the proactive measures between the public and private sectors? Many of the employers told the researchers that they would try more people with a minority background if they felt that the financial risk was lower. Finally, I ask: how does the Council of State view this? I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1515	I would like to start by thanking the representative Akhtar Chaudhry for the opportunity to inform the Stortinget about the government's extensive efforts to monitor and counteract ethnic discrimination in the workplace. It's great to use my debut as the State Council in Stortinget to just talk about such an important theme for the whole community and for the individual. As my predecessor said when the report was presented, ‘there is no more effective way to say that people are not part of the community than by discriminating against them in a job-seeker process.’ The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has been working systematically for several years to provide a better knowledge base for combating ethnic discrimination. The survey, which provides the basis for this interview, shows that the likelihood of being called into job interviews is significantly reduced for applicants with foreign names. The figures also show that there are considerable differences between genders, between geographical areas and between sectors, sectors and job types. The government is very serious about the findings that this study reveals. It does something about people's self-esteem to apply for a job and not be called for an interview because their parents do not come from Bergen or Lom. Work is the main means of ensuring the individual good living conditions, economic seaworthiness and equality between women and men. The workplace is an important meeting place between immigrants and the rest of the population. High employment and value creation form the basis for the development of the welfare state and society. We can't keep it that way that you don't get a job because of their name. We have to make sure that the individual gets a job in line with his or her qualifications. Immigrants are an important part of the labour force in Norway. Greater diversity among employees can open up more markets and increase profitability. By reflecting the population to the greatest extent possible, both private and public enterprises will gain greater legitimacy in society and will also increase acceptance among several groups. The human rights conventions give the State an obligation to protect the individual against all forms of discrimination. At the centre of government’s work against discrimination is a timely legal act and ensuring effective enforcement of legislation. Good legal protection is essential, but not sufficient to combat discrimination. The action plan to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination is an important tool to target and systematise government work in this field. A key area of action in the action plan is employment and cooperation with the social partners. From 1 January 2009, employers, public authorities and social organisations were given a statutory activity and reporting obligation to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination. This is a very important measure. One of the main objectives of the Government’s action plan is to contribute to a good follow-up to these obligations, and cooperation with the social partners is therefore central, just as the interpellant mentioned above. We need to know what the terrain is when the map is drawn, and then we need knowledge. Therefore, an objective of the action plan is to increase knowledge of the nature, scale and causes of discrimination. The study we have now referred to, which is the starting point for this interview, is just one action in the action plan to increase knowledge of discrimination in the labour market. The 2010 progress report of the Action Plan shows that work on these measures is well under way. The attitudes of employers and trustees towards diversity in working life have been surveyed. Cooperation is established with the main social organisations on the implementation of the activity and reporting obligation. Tutorials on duties have been developed and several pilot projects have been launched to provide good examples of work that can counteract discrimination. A separate report summarising and highlighting the best projects is under planning. Existing knowledge of recruitment and diversity shall be summarised and easily accessible. A statistical central agency has developed an indicator that allows enterprises to find out how many immigrants are employed in their industry, in relation to the proportion of immigrants living in the company’s region. The figures show that the migration representation in 2010 was highest in the companies in Finnmark, Nordland, Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal, and that the companies in Østfold had the lowest migration representation. Persons with a migrant background are generally under-represented in Norwegian governments. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is therefore working with various measures to recruit people with ethnic minority backgrounds into government in publicly owned enterprises. In addition to the action plan measures, there are a number of other initiatives that are relevant to mention in this context: There is a pilot scheme with moderate quotas for non-Western migrants in positions in twelve state establishments. The experiment has increased the awareness of recruiting people with a migrant background in these establishments. The government has extended the trial period and now the establishments are to allowances if applicants have similar qualifications. In central government, it is decided, with good results, that at least one applicant with a minority background should be invited to an interview if the person is qualified for the job. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity is tasked with supporting the municipal sector with a similar system. Since 2006, annual meetings have been held between the Minister and the heads of state-owned, whole-time businesses to discuss how the number of employees with a minority background can increase. This year, work has been reinforced by the establishment of a network of increased diversity in these establishments. Anti-racist centres receive funding for the JobbX project, which offers tailor-made job search activities to young people aged 16–26. In 2011, it was 64 pst. by the participants who applied for a job, who got a job after finishing a course. The diversity portal.no provides guidance on recruiting people with a migrant background and on finding work on diversity. The distribution of the Mangfold price, which IKEA received in 2011, is also an example. Work against discrimination and for diversity in working life must be systematic, clear and take on board the disadvantages both for individuals and for society when parts of the population are prevented from contributing with their abilities. The study of the possibilities of attending an interview with a foreign name has shown us that we are not in target. We must continue to work actively and specifically to combat ethnic discrimination. The government is now working on a major communication on integration policy. Discrimination and minority participation in the labour market are important issues. Cooperation with the social partners will continue to be a key instrument, but other measures will also be considered, such as: the measures recommended in the report referred to by the representative of Chaudhry. Among other things, we must: Ask us whether the threshold for protection against discrimination in Norway is too high, whether there should be sanctions for equality and discrimination issues, and whether the obligation of activity of the employer should be clarified. One thing is clear: the findings of the study challenge fundamental equality ideals in the Norwegian community, and this is something that governments take for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1572	I would like to thank a very generous Council of State, and Government, which aims to combat discrimination and racism in the Norwegian labour market, but not least in Norwegian society. There are challenges, as this study shows, while other things show that much works very well in Norwegian society. We have to look at what doesn't work, while we have to look at what works. DNB has now hired a 27-year-old bank manager, originally Iranian, who was a refugee. They've seen the value of this human being delivering something and having qualifications that DNB needs as a group, and society needs. They have also looked at mechanisms for recruiting good applicants. So the question is, what can we learn from the mechanisms and procedures that work in many companies? We know that IKEA is a very good business in recruiting people. We know that my workplace, Oslo Sporveier, where I worked as a T-trainer, works very well. There are very many people from very many nations, with very many languages and of different ethnicity. We have Ullevål hospitals and many others. I want us to also go in and look at what works, so that we can transfer these values, these experiences, to those businesses where we still have challenges. I have visited during the last three to four weeks, among others. Primary Medical Workshop, operated by and for women with a minority background. What's told there is that these women want to get into work. They're doing everything they can to get into work, they're learning the language, they're trying to crack the codes, but they need help getting into the labour market. So I've visited JobbX, which has a relationship with the Anti-racist Center, where they're just teaching job seekers how to get into the world of work. They teach them how to set up an application, how to set up a CV, how to talk to an employer, how to prepare for an interview, which is a very important interview because the employer is also looking for the right qualifications. They don't consider people just for fun, they want them to do a job for the business. Then it is important that we give applicants opportunities, opportunities and help to apply correctly. I look forward to the debate, and then we come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1587	First a little praise to the representative Chaudhry, who has been a lot around and talked to the various actors in the field. I think many of us here in the Chamber know people who have been discriminated against the type mentioned in the report. I also see that there are a number of people here who have been working on discrimination issues related to the gender dimension and gender equality, and how we are going to combat the mechanisms in society that make women not have the same opportunities as men. There are many reasons why it is bad when people in Norway with a minority background do not get a job, just because they have a different name. Of course, it does something about the individual’s self-esteem — and with the possibility of depending on the sea. It's in itself bad, because it affects what kind of function you get in society for the rest, and what freedom you get as a single person in our society. It can also lead to increased mistrust and a feeling that you're not really wanted. It's serious. It is also serious for our society, because it can help us to get more distinctions between people – greater mistrust – that in turn have consequences for how we associate. But for society, it means that we're missing valuable competences. I want to stress most strongly that in this group that today faces barriers that the majority of people do not meet, there is an enormous amount of competence that we need and that we should use. We then see from this report that there are many reasons why discrimination is taking place. It doesn't necessarily have to be pure racism, which is the main cause of this. Fortunately, the big picture is that there is equal treatment for most of the meetings, but it's a skinny comfort for the group that doesn't meet it. We know that perhaps one of the main reasons why people are exposed to discrimination is a lack of knowledge of what this group of people has to offer – and prejudices you have to have, which are either used to discriminate directly, or which appear indirectly through the fact that the result is discrimination. I think it's exciting to read the report and see the difference between the public and the private sector, and thus some of the difference between women and men. Men are more discriminated against than women, because the private sector is worse off than the public sector in this report. The proposals that have come up with what to do with the problem should be considered, both in the field of the legislation under work in the Department and in the communication on integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1600	First, thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Discrimination in the labour market is a challenge, as it is difficult to identify in individual cases. The Fafo and ISF reports contribute to better knowledge. Discrimination takes place, both in the private and public sectors. Systematic sieving is already taking place before the call for an interview — by name, not by qualification. The more important it becomes with effective countermeasures. The starting point is good. We have low unemployment and high employment. We need labour, but unemployment is higher and employment is lower among immigrants. We need skilled labour, but highly skilled immigrants strive to get jobs that match their qualifications. The European Commission against Racism and Intolerance – a monitoring body under the Council of Europe – is one body that accompanies us with the eyes of the argus. Their fourth report on Norway, from 2009, commends the authorities for their efforts to combat discrimination, including in the workplace, but at the same time informs them that the measures are little concrete – that we know too little about their impact and that we have too little overview of the existence of direct and indirect discrimination. The interpellant calls for effective action. Awareness of employers, both in the private and public sectors, is one obvious measure. Knowledge of the qualifications of the immigrant population is one thing, demands for recruitment procedures another. Under the direction of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, there have been attempts for a few years on moderate allowances in 13 states. The evaluation showed that the allowances were used little, and that they were partly not well anchored in management and personnel procedures. So the experiment has therefore been extended and changed from optional to imposed moderate allowances. Let's hope that gives better results! Personally, I am strongly attached to quotaing as a tool. I belong to a generation of women who know that quotaing is the only thing that works fast. Employers must be required to think anew, and the public sector has a special obligation to lead by example. Actually, I'm a little disappointed that we're just prolonging the experiment and not introducing it into all state agencies now, because we know enough. Quotation is not dangerous – on the contrary, it is an instrument for a wider range of competences that we need, but as discriminatory attitudes – conscious or unconscious – prevent us from getting hold of. But there are light points. When the interpellant calls for concrete action, we can learn from those who have gone ahead. Even I have selected some examples from local teams. Here is an example from Nav i Drammen: Instead of continuing courses in application writing, they did the opposite and invited employers to personal meetings with competent immigrants. Someone who had almost given up got a job over the table. So one action can be to create active meeting places between the employer and the jobseeker. Another local example is teachers at labour market courses who invited employers to work before the course was over. The drama municipality is part of the Fafo/ISF study. The drama has a low discrimination factor. This is due to one thing: an Employer Policy Action Plan, which requires all departments to recruit and retrain immigrants at all levels and report to the City Council on results achieved — every year. For approx. five years the migration rate has increased from 9 to 15 pst. The goal is 23, which corresponds to the proportion of the population. Immigrants are encouraged to apply in all job vacancies. – It’s just to go online and see the job vacancies from the municipality of Drammen. Local business is on the go. The Drammen Næringslivsforening closely cooperates with the Norwegian Centre for Multicultural Value Creation and Recruitment, in its own interest, new members from immigrant companies. It creates a new meeting place that can help deliver assignments to the new businesses. For it is not just in terms of employment that discrimination takes place. The N.O. takes care of it. In the Global Future programme, they only have in my county, Buskerud, this year a programme for 25 selected participants. All have higher education, speak Norwegian well, are from 17 cultures and are aged 28–50. The whole 17 is women, and 8 is men. Nationally, Global Future is an impressive multi-disciplinary base of competence for the public and private sectors. So in my opinion, we need quota. We need to get out good role models, and we need good meeting places. The time for trials should actually be over, and I think the public should be speeding up if we are to secure this competent workforce for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1623	I want to thank the interpellant for having an important debate that it is very good that we take in this room. We know that Norway had not worked without a multicultural working life, by getting a lot of our new countrymen and those who come to Norway to work. It is important when we get refugees and immigrants to Norway, that we get them integrated as quickly as possible. One of the most important tasks there is to get these people to work. I thought it was a little fun to look at the NRK yesterday, when we saw what the king was doing. He visited – I think there was a karate layer somewhere here in Oslo, and we saw the multicultural group that was there. Then the one coach there said that to his son it meant nothing about his playmate's name was Muhammad, or whether his name was Arne. That's where I think we find some of the attitudes that are out in society, and that we ourselves have to work with: as the interpellant himself said, whether it's Øyvind Korsberg who gets a job, or Akhtar Chaudhry who gets a job – that's not the name that should be crucial, but it's qualifications. I have also seen the report that has come, and it is important to focus on people being discriminated against in the workplace because of a name. It shouldn't be like that. Then I think some of the attitudes also have to be out in the companies and among those responsible for recruiting people, that they look at qualifications. That's what must be the main point when you have to hire a new person, get the right person for the right job, and not what kind of name he has. We know that today we need new, smart heads, and we know – especially where I come from – that the oil industry is totally dependent on getting international people with names different from what we have here in Norway, in good jobs. So then the qualifications they have must be decisive and not the name. So a little bit in terms of measures: there might well be a little bit of distinction between the Progress Party and the other parties. The Progress Party is against – and I will only confirm it – any form of discrimination based on race, sex and religion. We have to agree to fight it. But the Progress Party believes that there is no quota and quota that is the right way to go. When you hear the previous speeches that talked about getting more quota, I just want to remind you that we have now tried more than ten years of quotaing into the policy. The last municipal elections, in 2011, showed us that we haven't actually got more women into politics, even though the majority in this room have gone into quota. Nor have we received so many more women in the limited companies as the majority have also decided that allowances should be made. What's happened is that a lot of these companies have changed company form to avoid that rule. The Progress Party believes that you should be employed in those positions, be involved in politics and be part of a company because of the knowledge and qualifications you have, and not because you are a woman or a man. But I think that this debate is important that we take, and I think it's no worse than that we shouldn't go in order for us to have more quota and more quota, but that we can have a debate that changes our positions, which also signals that there should be qualifications that count. I think young people who are growing up today have a completely different attitude. I'm talking for myself. When you have little kids who go to school today where school classes are multicultural, it is important that you look at them as individuals and not as someone who is going to be discriminated against because they have different names. That's why I think it's important that we talk about mind-creating work, and that qualifications should be more important than what name you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1640	Thank you to the interpellant for making an important debate. These are debates that we have had in various forms in this room with former Minister Lysbakken, and it is nice to be able to welcome a new minister. I am looking forward to the cooperation, and we are also eagerly waiting for the follow-up of the two major investigations that came last year, namely from the Brochmann Committee and the Kaldheim Committee. So I hope that the new Council of State will also focus on this part of its field of work in the future. This is an important debate. At the same time, reference is made to the Fafo and ISF survey, which is actually quite geographically limited. It is Oslo, Drammen, Lørenskog and Moss that have been asked. It is even my neighbouring address that is one of the addresses used as a fictional address in this report. The drama comes out well, as Lise Christoffersen pointed out. I think some reason why that's that in the drama we have 23 pst. with a migrant background. There has been an integration over many years. It's like this, which Solvency Horne was also talking about, that for the children who grow up today, it's a natural part to have a nursery friend/a classmates who have a completely different name. The first time my oldest son came home from school and said he had a new boy in his class, I said, "What's his name? His name is Jaspreet, he said. Where is he from then, I said. He's from Tromsø, he said. Mom and his dad moved out of there. Oh, yes, I said – and I thought that now I have to kind of hold back, because I thought he wasn't really from Tromsø. But that's how the kids think, and so should we think. So this is a lot about attitudes, and it's a lot about how society is integrated. It's a lot about how you look in everyday life. The reason why I say that this study is a little geographically limited is that in the municipal committee we have the privilege of traveling around to all the counties of the country. We are not as eager as Heikki Holmås to travel to all municipalities, but at least to all the counties of the country. What strikes us when we're on company visits, at the latest now on Senjahopen, is that at all the fishing farms along the coast, all the industries around the coast, all the travel businesses in Hallingdal and elsewhere, there are people with a different background than Norwegian who work. We had a large district conference at Voss, which Navarsete State Council initiated, we were to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Norwegian district policy. There was no debate on rural policy instruments in the traditional sense. There was a debate on labour immigration, where both the progress party rapporteur from Austevoll and the working party rapporteur from Hasvik said that what we need is stable labour. The stable labour force is migrant workers. They come here, they stay here, they participate in society. We want to do everything we can to make it right. So let us not underestimate the fact that there may be major changes in attitude. If we look at last year, Norway recently passed five million inhabitants. We have never had as much immigration – mainly labour immigration – as we now have. It shows that there is also a screaming need for labour in District Norway. When one so gets people in, like in the company SalMar on Frøya in Trøndelag – 430 employees, 30 of them are Norwegian, 400 are foreigners – what did the municipality do? Well, they did the right thing; they began to map the skills of those who worked in the fishing industry. They found out that many had a master's degree, many had the skills to work in other positions in the municipality, where there was a lack of applicants. So I mean here it's going to happen a lot in the future. The right has not been a stranger to use e.g. anonymous job applications as a tool to see if they will change. Calling someone with a migrant background for job interviews, like in the municipality of Dramam, is also one thing that could be right to use. I won't call it quotaing; I'll call it exploiting the possibilities, the potential, that are in society. Because we know that very many of those who come to Norway want to succeed, and they also often have a background that they cannot take advantage of in Norway. So it's very important to get hold of it. Time goes by quickly, but I would like to sum up by saying that attitudes are the most important thing, that you have an attitude to and are sure that people with a different and slightly special name – from a Norwegian point of view – can do a good job. I think that's incredibly important. In kindergarten where my smallest boys go, we have the father of one of the children, he's 32. He's already been working for three years as a McKinsey consultant and is now the top manager of a Drammen company. He was born and raised in Norway, but his parents are Indian. So it's going well in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1661	The interpellant points out in his intervention how racist attitudes are a disease that permeates Norwegian society, and I will give him that right in. When jobseekers my age, from the same place as me, who were in my class, who have the same education as me, are waiting longer in line and are not called in for interviews, it may be hard to see that it's racism. But when your name is an obstacle that makes it harder to get a job, and not the education and qualifications you have, and when this is systematic and continuous, it's time to look at some attitudes that we find in Norwegian society. The study referred to by the interpellant helps us to understand the extent of ethnic discrimination in the Norwegian labour market. When the chance to be called for an interview is 25 pst. lower for people named Chaudhry than for people named Arnem, it is timely to point out that there may be a rash of racism. We must not blind ourselves to the fact that Norway is a good country to live in – we still have racism problems that we have to take seriously. Nor can we expect people with a foreign - language name to be 25 pst. better, only to compensate for discrimination in the labour market. Rather, we need to look at the measures that the Minister of Inclusion is taking, which can help to combat the racist attitudes that many people face. That is why I am proud that both the previous and the new Minister of Inclusion take this seriously. She shows that both through the answer she gave here today, and through the work she does and will continue to do – I hope so. That being said, there is one issue that I would like to raise. This study has sent out quite a number of applications — some 900 — that are probably written by people who can write applications. Nevertheless, name-based discrimination has been detected. This means that equally good applications are treated differently. But there are very many young people, especially young people with a minority background, who cannot write applications, and many of them are not getting help at home either. That is why I would like to thank the Council of State, which, among other things, have mentioned JobbX, and then I would like to say a little about why your job is so incredibly important. JobsX here in Oslo help young people with minority backgrounds write applications, write CVs and everything else they need to apply for jobs, and it actually helps. But it shouldn't be JobbX's responsibility, it should be a responsibility we take. We should learn from what JobbX does, because according to their websites, four out of five participants get jobs after they have finished their course. Therefore, it is clear that we need to take the challenges seriously and look at what the school can do to make young people better able to write job applications. I'm even at that age, going to work, and I've spent almost all my youth getting ready to get a job. But working life is not just work – it also includes getting a job. That's why we should spend a couple of hours studying how to apply for jobs and write CVs, so we learn everything from becoming electricians to baking circles at school. And we don't have to trust that people get help at home, because there's too many people who don't get it. I hope the Minister of Inclusion will continue the good work against discrimination and racist attitudes in the labour market. So I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up such an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1676	It is bad that having a foreign name can lead to you not being considered current for a job. Of course, qualifications and personal characteristics should be what is governing, not what you are called. The results of the research to which the interpellant refers are simply discouraging, so there is a timely debate between the interpellant travelling. Thank you to Akhtar Chaudhry, who gives us the opportunity to debate this important topic today. As the Council of State said so well in its statement, work is the main instrument for ensuring the individual good living conditions and economic independence and for achieving equality between women and men. Of course, work is also important for integration and inclusion in Norwegian society. When people experience that they are not interesting in the job market because they have a foreign name, we need to put in place what we can from actions, both attitudes – which many people have had – and structural and concrete measures. Action plans to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination are an important tool. The Council of State pointed out that the 2010 Action Plan Status Report shows that work on these measures has progressed well. The Councils of State showed, inter alia: from January 2009 onwards, employers, public authorities and social organisations were required to carry out an activity and reporting obligation to promote equality and to prevent ethnic discrimination. This is important to get a consciousness around the subject. In the wake of this report, we see that measures are being taken, also locally around the country. That's good! In addition to the important attitude work, concrete measures can be mentioned as a test mechanism with moderate quotas for persons with a non-Western migrant background. The same may be the case for at least one applicant with a migrant background to be invited for an interview if the person is qualified for the job. For the time being, this is only carried out in state-owned companies, but as I understand it is also on the way into several municipalities. Even I think it is sad that we miss the competence we know that people with non-Western names have. We know that a more international labour market and working life have positive repercussions. Both the Council of State and several others have been involved in their contributions. As a weekly commuter and a lot on various visits around the country, I travel a lot with the Flytrain. It may be a little naive to say that, but I feel that I'm part of a bigger world when I hear flight hosts speaking Norwegian, but with a sense of a foreign accent over the speaker system, and when I see that many of the flight hosts walking through the flight train have a minority background. It makes me happy and proud. I literally feel that I am part of something big and significant. I just feel like a world citizen. I would like to see and hear more people with a minority background throughout Norway – as employees in hospitals and in schools, in politics and in business, as employees in the news media and in the service industries. It will certainly enrich us all. I am therefore very pleased that the government now has such a strong focus on this important topic with the new Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Integration at its head. Finally, I would like to say a few words about disabled people. Many job-seekers with disabilities experience some of the same challenges that job seekers with foreign names face. They often face a difficult dilemma. If they state that they are disabled in the application, they may risk not being called for an interview. If they do not state that they are disabled in the application and are then called for an interview, I have received feedback that someone feels that the potential employer is getting a bit of a pick-up because he or she, for example. come in a wheelchair. These jobseekers experience that the interview situation then gets off to a bad start, and they get the feeling that there has been a lack of trust between them and the potential employer. I hope the Council of State is also aware of this kind of discrimination in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1693	Let me start by saying that my heart is burning because you don't discriminate against people with foreign names, or whose names are hard to write. It really speaks to my heart. But the matter has a serious undertone that we're going to enter. I would like to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing this research report, which is very interesting, to Stortinget's table. Then I'll come back to a never so small warning to the interpellant, but I'll take the rose first. The research report is also a methodological innovation in labour market research. Unfortunately, it does not place Norway at the top in comparison with other countries. I noticed that. The conclusion of these researchers is that we should not be as sloppy as some have been in the debate about the reasons for this. I quote: ‘The interviews show, however, that the results cannot be interpreted as a result of one mechanism or explanation model. Rather, discrimination must be explained by a combination of employers' varying knowledge of ethnic minorities, past experience, ethnic stereotypes, and too many spouses – but not rationally – uncertainty as to whether job seekers with foreign names are actually able to carry out a job in line with equally qualified applicants with a majority background.’ We have noticed that there is less inequality in call practices between majority women and minority women and the corresponding greater inequality between men. So there's an interesting trade difference, among other things. there is a relatively lower inequality in education in health and social and general government. In health and social terms, there are also interesting differences between job categories. It's e.g. 44 pst. reduced probability of being called if you are looking for an auxiliary care unit, while there is only 11 pst. – which is much better – in contrast if you are applying for a nursing position. This is related to the fact that, in the case of jobs where there are clear skills requirements, minority applicants will claim to be better. It shows that there is light in the tunnel, because it means that in a community of competences, where we set greater demands for formal education and background, the immigrant population – once they have broken the code – will get into one of Europe’s best schools in this city – so they will be better placed on the labour market in a competitive situation. There are also other aspects where the researchers do not imply any moral dissatisfaction with employers, but that they have fallen back on coarse grades at an aggregate level. This is particularly true when you receive many applications. Then there is a greater tendency for summary treatment. So there's a tendency to fall down on the feeling of stomach, especially when combined with the fact that these are unclear criteria. When it comes to what we're going to do, I think we're going to remind each other that on paper we have a pretty good law. We have Section 13-1 of the Working Environment Act, which is perfectly clear and concise in terms of anti-discrimination. It has also included a direct reference to the Discrimination Act. Where there is a shortage, the attitudes you have toward a sector that the state does not direct. There I think time is working for a change of mind, which has already done a good job of changing. I think it will be a competitive advantage for business managers who are not derived from exotic surnames, but who just see the value of calling all applicants out of their merit and not out of the spelling of the last name. Then I will come back to what I think should be a little reminder and warning to the interpellant. In his presentation of the problem he came to mention the expression of racism. Of course, there are some people who defend that expression among thousands of employers, we can find representatives of this everywhere. But there is no basis in the report to claim. It is not a problem related to such attitudes but to water retention.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1710	Let me first thank you for a good debate – good words and good commitment. Let me first take it with foreign names. My name came to Norway in 1968. I've been here for more than 40 years. I have a daughter who is now 28 years old, who has gone through kindergarten, school and everything. Is her name still alien? Does she have to pay the price for that? That's what racism or non-racism is all about. The application was sent in exactly the same language, exactly the same qualifications, exactly the same work experience. Nevertheless, Korsberg was preferred and Chaudhry was not – 25 pst. less possibilities. Trond Helleland had a point about a demarcated area. That's the point: when the employer has someone to choose from, he chooses Trond Helleland over Akhtar Chaudhry. But when he has no one to choose from up north, he chooses Akhtar Chaudhry. We have to remember that and bring it with us. It was a bit interesting to hear the representative Solvency Horne from the Progress Party. It is a representative and a party that does not trust dialogue, discussion, debate and conversation in terms of integration. There is no longer any dialogue – we are going to take concrete action every time. But when you come to a specific matter, the representative didn't have a single proposal, not a single one. The only measure that was presented was the one that she had given in response to. I think it is important for the Progress Party to take it along and bring concrete action to the debate. Today, I read the party leader’s statement. She said they'll be able to provoke the left side of the Progress Party national meeting. This is the only thing they can do, they want and have the goal of provoking the left-hand side. I wish they had some positive solutions to the challenges this society is facing. Bring positive goals! So to the Council of State: I have great confidence in both the Council of State and the Government in doing this – and it does – a great job. We spend four years training a cook. But we don't spend four hours telling her how to put up an application, how to set up a CV, how to prepare for interviews, and how to actually prepare her for entering the labour market. I hope the government takes it with it. Then there is a very concrete measure, which is already in progress, namely the employer’s obligation to work and report. The researchers say that employers are not aware of this. There are very many employers who are not aware of this. At least they don't know how to pursue it, realize it and materialize it. Then it's important that they get the help that's needed to realize this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1736	The last speaker in the debate is the Council of State Inga Marte Thorkildsen, whom the President presupposes has already been duly welcomed to cooperate with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1739	Thank you so much for that! I want to start by thanking you for the praise and trust of Stortinget. I can also assure you that the department I am assigned to run has a long and extensive experience of different forms of discrimination and of promoting equality in all its forms. The Ministry also has a strong commitment to doing so. So here are a lot of people who are going to contribute to the work in the future. I would also like to thank you for your contributions – also for several thought-provoking contributions. All first of all, that things are changing, in change, in Norway. That's absolutely right. That's it. It is also right, as the representative of Greece said, that often when we talk about the children and the young, they have a completely different view of this. They are more color-blind, perhaps even name-blind – except for this with difficult names and spelling, the discussion we get to bring with the teachers – than the adult generation is. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that the sails of things are changing, there are many who experience the situation quite differently here and now. From the discussion on equality between women and men and discrimination against women, we have often heard that things change, just be patient, and we will finally get there. Hege Skjeie, who is Norway's first female professor of state science, and who has led the so-called Skjeie Committee on Gender Equality, has just warned against thinking of it as a journey, where we get to the goal of just being a little patient. We cannot be patient in this area. That's what I think is important to emphasize. The representative Lise Christoffersen said that we need concrete measures. So do we. I think it is good that the representative is impatient about the use of a very specific instrument, namely moderate quota. We know from the gender equality debate and the women's struggle that it's an instrument that works. It is not about quotaing being an objective in itself, nor about discrimination. It is about removing barriers, removing the discrimination that is actually taking place, so that you can see the qualifications, and that women or minorities are competent. I have also received good examples of municipalities that have succeeded, and that is good. To the representative of Greece: In the case of anonymous job applications, there are some objections to this. Among other things, it is impossible to use moderate allowances as an instrument if you do not know who is applying. There are also a number of other disadvantages related to this, including the disclosure law. But I respect that it is an instrument that can be used. I have also noticed the representatives Mari Lund Arnem and Akhtar Chaudhry's recommendations to look at this by learning how to apply for jobs. I'll deal with that with the Minister of Knowledge. To the representative Torve: People with disabilities are people for whom we have an important responsibility in the department. We're going to come back to how we can expand and better protect them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1756	So the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1772	The recognition of every human being as a unique individual with an infinite human dignity is fundamental to our society – and thus also the principle that each human being is a goal in itself and not to be reduced to a means for others. At all times, people have exploited others in various ways, whether they have been unfair and harmful to health, feudalism, loan relationships, slavery or today's reality just outside the door, with prostitution and trafficking, there are two important characteristics of many of these relationships: firstly, those who have taken the lead in dealing with others, often resorting to some form of volunteering among the victims and underestimating that the so-called volunteering has taken place in an unbalanced situation of power that put pressure on the victim. The second characteristic is that very often the interests of women and children have been suppressed. As a society, therefore, we have made laws to stop exploitation in many areas, because we have seen that we have a responsibility to prevent people, often by some form of volunteering, from being exploited by others – where the balance of power is distorted and the burden is unreasonable for the individual. We have national and international laws and conventions on working conditions, human trafficking and human rights that serve the same purpose. This is an important backtrace to bring with us when we discuss the question of surrogati. It's time for a discussion on this topic also in Stortinget. I am very pleased that there seems to be a broad political consensus on protecting the integrity of children and women by not allowing surrogati in Norway. During a recent trip to the United States, the Family and Culture Committee met one of the companies operating with surrogati in California, «The Surrogacy SOURCE». Although the company does not allow economically disadvantaged to become surrogate mothers, many middle- and working-class families in the United States have a major challenge in ensuring safety for the whole family with adequate health insurance and advice on education for their children. We also know the problems of relative poverty from a rich welfare country like Norway. Paying women to carry out pregnancy on behalf of others will never be right. Allowing to buy access to women's bodies will never be a good policy for equality and women. In the United States, surrogate mothers’ wages were referred to as ‘compensation’. But what is compensation for a nine-month pregnancy? The question also illustrates that the so-called distinction between commercial and non-commercial surrogati is a very unclear distinction. Surrogati is about human dignity and women's rights. The other weak party here is the child. It is fairly clear that the idea of surrogati and the surrogati industry was not invented for the child's sake, it was created by the interest of adults. We have to ask ourselves, to what extent will it affect our culture's view of young people if we get a development in which young people can be ordered through these kinds of services? Or – as it says in the Health Directorate’s evaluation of the Biotechnology Act: ‘A central argument against surrogati is that it facilitates the production or commercialisation of children and women. Permitting surrogati will therefore devalue and justify the reproduction and children produced by this method.’ Kids are also people, said our new state councillor at the Castle Square. That's very well said. If kids are more obvious, our perception of success and deviation from what we experience is also changing. It was clearly illustrated when the Committee got an insight into American practice. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is carrying out a broader investigation related to surrogati and any new legislative provisions relating thereto. I hope the Council of State can say something more about this, and I hope she can confirm that this investigation is not taking place in a political vacuum, but that there is a clear platform based on a clear view of young people's interest and self-esteem, on a clear mother's concept and on a clear position towards the exploitation of women's and women's bodies. From a part of the contributions of the debate that has gone so far, there is a need to remember what surrogati and the legislation on this is really all about. There is reason to recall that Norwegian law regulates little the way adult people make children with others. What surrogati is about is the transfer of parents. So if a Norwegian couple use a surrogate mother, it is not prohibited for a man to have children with another woman. It becomes surrogati when the parent transfers from mother to husband or partner. In other words, this is exactly what the debate at home is about. In other words, it is not possible to draw a sharp distinction between, on the one hand, the debate before or against surrogati and, on the other hand, the debate on how we deal with questions about legal parenting for children in Norway born of a surrogacy mother. The Norwegian law prevents surrogati by prohibiting egg donation under the Biotechnology Act and by ensuring that the provisions of the Children’s Act that the agreement to provide a child for another woman is not binding. Furthermore, the Children’s Act states that the person who gives birth is the child’s mother. In the summer of 2010, the government advised Norwegian citizens not to take advantage of surrogati abroad. It was a wise advice – not least because of all the legal and practical challenges that many of these parents, and not least the children, often face. It's not all the statements of a state council or all the press releases that are perceived by all the people at once. I allow myself to be a little surprised that, on many occasions after this, the department has published press reports on the particular issue, namely Norwegian citizens who use surrogati abroad, without referring to this council. It is desirable for the Council of State to confirm that the dismissal is still pending and that the Department wishes to use all natural channels to make this known. It's a fact that we have to deal with the fact that the children who are already born of surrogate mother abroad are here and deserve security around their situation. It is, as everyone who has followed this debate knows, a challenge. Our law is, as I have mentioned, replaced with other principles. These are principles that we want to protect. It is also worth stressing that international agreements have been negotiated, dealing with the transfer of parents across borders. The Hague Convention on Adoption is central in this way. The main purpose of this Convention is to prevent the kidnapping and trafficking of children. It is important that we take care of these principles in the laws we have. I want to pay tribute to the government, which, within the framework of our law and international obligations, has tried to find solutions for these children, where possible. It is important to adhere to the basic principles of the Children's Act and international agreements when making such temporary adjustments as have been provided by the Ministry. Although we may have a slightly different view of, among other things. definition of danger and perhaps not having chosen exactly the same solutions, it seems that the department has tried to succeed with just that. It is equally important to have thought-out choices, so that we can now prepare ourselves for the requirement that temporary rules become permanent. Here you have to think more than one step forward. Finally, this is not just a question of women’s and children’s interests. There is also, to the greatest extent, a question of the relationship between the child and the woman — it is a question of parenthood and, in particular, of motherhood. The safety of any child rests on the simple fact that adults take responsibility. Parenting is a cornerstone of a safe society – the foundation of what makes us a community. The parenting law is one of the most important things that politicians can deal with. Surrogati puts these questions at the top. Surrogati will often lead to three different mother roles. It could be the role of the biological mother, who is the birther, the geneticist, who is the egg donor, and the social mother. Do we want to lay such a framework for children's understanding of their origin and identity? No, I don't think we do that. Mom – what is it, and who is it? As legislators, we can choose whether this term should be unambiguous or not. The answer should be a yes to secure the closest human relations. No woman should be encouraged, asked for or paid to reset her relationship with a young child who is growing up in her own womb. No women should be encouraged, asked for or paid to reset the intuitive sense of the overriding responsibility of protecting their own child. It will be a sign of disease for a society and for the Community's mind, if laws are made that put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1817	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for the opportunity to take a relatively difficult discussion into this storeroom, but where I get the opportunity to make some statements. I'll come back to that. What is called surrogati events between citizens from different countries is a global activity and has increased dramatically in recent years. This has many consequences. Different national regulations and approaches to international surrogati have led to the birth of children without having legal parents and citizenship. Some children are stranded in the country of birth, with or without their nearest caregivers. There are several vulnerable parties to international surrogati events. The surrogate mothers often come from poor countries and difficult conditions. The children and caregivers, who so strongly want children, are also vulnerable. The surrogate mothers, children and caregivers can easily be exploited by a growing and highly commercial infertility industry. There is also a high risk of trafficking and trafficking. This suggests that there is a need for international solutions to the problems we face, both in terms of human rights and the regulation of so-called private international law. I'll come back to this as well. In recent years, the Ministry has worked on issues related to the establishment of parents in matters related to Norway, where the child was born from a surrogate mother abroad. Sickness about egg donation, which is a prerequisite for surrogati, is not allowed in Norway, Norway is obliged, inter alia, to do so. in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, in order to assess the best interests of the child and the best interests of the child. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, in cooperation with other departments, has prepared letters to the departments – Buffetat, Nav and the tax department – on how to apply the Children’s Act and the Adoption Act in matters relating to surrogati. However, some children born to surrogacy abroad cannot be guaranteed legal parents under the applicable legislation. I want these children, born of surrogate mother abroad, who are already in Norway, to be better assured, and have therefore proposed a temporary regulation. This regulation implies that foreign judges and administrative decisions on fatherhood will be recognised and established as valid in Norway. The regulation has been in consultation, and I intend to see it enter into force as soon as possible. Before Easter, we sent on to the hearing a draft temporary law on the establishment of parents of children in Norway born of surrogate mother abroad, which will capture further cases. The law will allow the establishment of a parent for a father’s spouse or partner after his father has died, or after divorce or breakup. The representative, Håbreck, asks how the Norwegian authorities can best prevent Norwegian citizens from using surrogati. A report by a cross-ministerial working group in 2010 on the management of surrogati cases, which is located on the Ministry’s website, recommends that information be prepared from public bodies where agreements on surrogati are not recommended. The recommendation has been followed by the publication of information on the Norwegian egg donation/surrogati legislation and the establishment of parents for children born from surrogacy abroad on the Ministry’s website. In my view, the regulatory guidance will be able to prevent the use of surrogati. I would like to point out that Norwegian foreign stations do not advise on the possibility of using surrogati abroad, nor on the legislation in other countries. On the home page of a selection of Norwegian foreign stations where surrogati is a current issue, Norwegian citizens are not advised to enter into and implement agreements with surrogates abroad. Information on Norwegian legislation has also been sent from the Norwegian authorities to a selection of foreign infertility clinics. I have noticed that the representative, Mr Håbreek, believes that we should refer to this Council more often. I'll take that with me. The justification for using surrogate mother abroad is diverse. In some countries, surrogati is unregulated and in very few countries/countries, commercial surrogati is permitted and regulated. Many countries have learned that as a result of international surrogati, children become without legal parents, without – or withholding – citizenship and beaches in their country of birth. Surrogati is used globally, and the resulting issues are therefore transnational. The Hague Conference on Private International Law is investigating international surrogati. The Secretariat has recently issued an interim report stressing that ‘this global phenomenon may ultimately demand a global solution’, cf. our website hcch.net. The Hague Conference points out that it is difficult, if not impossible, to see that each country alone can solve the transnational problems arising from surrogati. The final report of the Hague Conference, with recommendations on possible solutions, will be available in April 2013, i.e. in a year's time. I also refer to the letter sent from the Department on 26 January 2011, where the Biotechnology Act is mentioned, cf. Document 8:41 S for 2011–2012. The Biotechnology Act is, as you know, under evaluation in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In this context, the question of allowing egg donation, which is a prerequisite for surrogati, will be considered. We are also in the process of a wider investigation of questions related to surrogati and any new legal provisions on this. This includes, inter alia: a follow-up to the NOU 2009:5 of the CPC which has been consulted. The media debate in recent years has been powerful, with strong comments for and against surrogati. I have a strong understanding that some people have felt insecure — and even cheated — about the legislation in force in Norway for children born of surrogate mother abroad, and that it has led to frustration and anger in those who have had their highest desire to become parents. Our children are one of the most precious things we have, and most parents will do the best for their children. It is therefore important, in my view, that all children should be given an easy opportunity to establish legal parenthood under Norwegian law to one or both of their caregivers, i.e. social parents. Children have no influence on the circumstances surrounding their origin. Considerable attention must be paid to the best interests of the child and to the special need for safety and stability of the child. This has been the focus of the Ministry on the work of temporary regulation and temporary law under the Children's Act. In future legislation, too, it will be important to ensure that children are safe. The question of who is the father or mother of the child is crucial in a number of legal contexts. Finding out who are the legal parents of the child will also prevent ambiguities and disputes about this later in life, for example. in the event of a life crime or death. It is in line with the provisions of the Children’s Act and the United Nations Convention of 20 November 1989 on the Rights of the Child, the so-called Children’s Convention, that the public contribution to ensuring, where possible, the legal father and mother of children residing in Norway is ensured. Children have always become – and will increasingly become – in the most strange ways, due to technology and globalisation. Anyway, it's important for me as Minister of Children to stress the value of the children, and that fortunately, most children, at least in our part of the world, are strongly wanted. I would also like to say that sails if you are against surrogati – and most of us are probably critical of surrogati as such – we have to remember that these children are born, and that they bring with them the debate on surrogati. There are many vulnerable parties here – which I started with – and it is important for me to say that the seas if we are critical for the use of surrogati, we are not critical of the children who have been born.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1853	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would also like to welcome the Council of State to Stortinget in its new position as Council of State and look forward to dialogue and cooperation in this regard. I think the councils have many important and good reflections on the child's status and situation in the different situations that arise related to surrogati, and how young people become in a modern world with different technological possibilities. I am also pleased that the Council of State is committed to ensuring young people security and legal security when it is necessary to take action in order to do so. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that she confirms that the dismissal that came in the summer of 2010 is still pending and practised through the fact that it has been posted on the websites of the foreign stations. That's a very important advice, because it's just a summary of all the challenges we've seen over a long time. At the same time, I probably wanted the Council of State not only to reflect on the consequences of the surrogate industry and surrogate services around the world. When it's an international challenge, it's just the sum of how we, as different countries in the world, deal with the challenge, which premises the extent to which young people are born in ways to which we are critical, as expressed by the Council of State. I would have liked a clearer clarification of what kind of valuable platform you build this review on. Do we want to reduce the problems and scope of the surrogate industry? Do we actively want to help prevent this from happening, precisely because of the integrity of women and the unique self-esteem of young people? I would like to quote the former councillor Audun Lysbakken, who said the following to the class struggle in June 2010: ‘I strongly warn Norwegian citizens against travelling abroad to have children in this way. Surrogati is prohibited in Norway and the Norwegian authorities cannot guarantee that it will be possible to circumvent it in the future by travelling to other countries’. I hope the Council of State can confirm that she is on the same policy and the same clear signals that have come from the government earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1873	The representative Hope asks what kind of valuable platform is government and my starting point. Our valuable platform is the best interests of children. I think that must be crucial in these matters. If we're even critical of surrogati, we have to make sure that the children who are born in this way are safe. I think it is going to be wrong to fight surrogati by undermining the safety of the children who are already born and in Norway. Then we have to work internationally to get good regimes to get effective instruments against the use of surrogati. It may be particularly important in countries where there is a great deal of poverty, and where the legislation and the exercise of authority are not as good as what we are used to. But it is imperative for me to work to ensure that those children who are born in Norway, who are thus born, have a security and that they do not have to live too long in an uncertainty about their situation and their legal status. Then we're going to discuss how we're going to behave when we're going to work on the permanent law. As I said in my main post, it's like we're about to get a temporary regulation, which hopefully comes into force in mid-May, and then we get a temporary law. It is then important that citizens who are in a situation addressed by this law should also do their part to contribute. It is clear that it is not quite easy, either, to get involved in medical and technological developments and in the travel patterns of Norwegian citizens. It means that it will often take some time before we can meet the challenges that arise, because this is so complicated, and often it can be difficult to understand the actual situation. What we don't want to contribute to is, for example, that children are subject to legal proceedings or that mothers are subject to trade or undue pressure. At the same time, we have to make sure that we do our part to ensure that the children who are here are safe. It is often difficult to balance, but the debate must at least be conducted in such a way that the children who are born do not feel that they are less valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1884	I'm glad that we're allowed to discuss such an important issue as surrogati is, not least because it's actually about maybe the most fundamental issues related to parents and children. I really feel that the debate we have here in Norway right now is about two questions: the one question is how, in principle, we think the law in Norway should be designed in the years to come – whether we are in favour of or against surrogati. The second is how Norwegian society takes care of the kids who are already born through surrogati abroad. I want to touch on the topic that I mentioned last time, first. We know that there are hundreds of kids, maybe up to 800 to 900 born at surrogati abroad. We also know that there are more and more children born, and we know that these children are born within all kinds of family forms. It's lonely – both men and women – it's straight families, and it's gay families. Until the summer of 2010, I think we have to honestly admit that we had a rather unclear code, and we had a vague practice on how to deal with these cases. Many of these families who have now received a letter from the People's Register saying that the parent can be deleted have by no means altered the legislation. They have always played with open cards, and received guidance and advice on how to proceed. This applies not least to those families that have children who are slightly larger and were born before 1 July 2010. For them, it is a brutal experience when they are later given an innocent window envelope where they are told with bureaucratic wording that they are not parents of their children, or that the parenthood can be erased. Most brutally, it is for the two families who got that letter last summer that the parenthood was actually deleted. It's really not that hard to imagine what emotional stress these families have been in the last nine months. I have to say, therefore, that I need to ask these kids and these families for an apology for the bureaucratic mess we have exposed them to – we should take things in a different order from what we have done. If anyone disagrees with the way the kids have been born, we have an obligation to give these children the same security and rights as all other children in Norway. We do that by giving young people legal ties with their parents — either directly or via stebarn adoption. So it's now designed a temporary regulation, as the Council of State tells us, will come into force quite quickly. In addition, a proposal for a temporary law has been sent that will capture the cases that cannot be included in the regulation. I think it's important that these regulatory changes get in place quickly. The families who received the letters last year feel very insecure with the Norwegian authorities. Only when their affairs are resolved will they again feel the stability and security that any family in Norway should have. So to the principal questions around surrogati. I think we have to first say that we have to acknowledge that almost all adults have a desire to have children, and that there is nothing wrong with them. I don't want to be involved and moralize over those who do a lot to get the kids, whether it's through clinics in Norway, at St. Olav's Hospital or at Ullevål they get help to have children. Nor will I be involved and moralize over those who choose surrogati. But that doesn't mean we're not going to set limits on what we allow and not. Today, surrogati is banned in Norway, but we are challenged daily by those provisions, precisely by seeing many circumvent the legislation. I imagine we have three ways to solve it. One way is to set clear, clear boundaries for surrogati and close again all the legal loopholes. But we have to ask ourselves the question: will Norwegian citizens not do so for that reason? Then, of course, we can open up surrogati in Norway. The representative, Håbreek, has outlined many of the concerns we have there. The third option we have is to have it the way it is today, that we say no in Norway and accept that it happens abroad. None of the three solutions I think are good, and I really agree with what the Council of State says, that we need to get an international code in place that can regulate it, so that we don't let people travel abroad and circumvent the legislation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1907	There is no simple matter the interpellant has brought up today, and it may not be. It is difficult to know where to start – whether to propose how to make this easier, or whether to take a general debate. I want to start with what the Council of State was also about, that no matter what we politicians decide and discuss in this room, children are going to be made in Norway, in different ways, whether we like it or not. What the Council of State was at the end of its speech was that although we are opposed or critical of surrogati, we are not opposed or critical of the children being born. I, the undersigned, represent a party, the Progress Party, which has always said that we are against surrogati. We do not want surrogati, and we do not want it to be legal in Norway, either. I'm going to relate to that and stand behind until a change is made, and I can't see that is going to be done in the near future. Nevertheless, we know that there are people who travel abroad and use surrogati. Although we believe that having a child is not a human right, we know that having a child is a strong desire for a lot of people, and then it is often wrong for us politicians to stand and moralize over the way it is done. But we can mean it, and the Progress Party doesn't want to open up to be legal with surrogati. We still see that surrogati is used. Then, as many people have been involved, the most important thing is to secure the children who have come to the country, and to put in place international agreements and laws, so that we can cope with the development we have seen in India, where there are now several ‘factories’ that are almost engaged in the trafficking of children in human beings. What's also a dilemma here is the whole process of thinking. Many of the countries that approve surrogati have a completely different approach to and thinking about this than what we Norwegian politicians have. It clearly shows the sense the family committee had when we were in the U.S. and had a meeting with a surrogate association. It was almost like you were on two very different planets when it was about what kind of approach you had to this. In Norwegian law, we say that the person who gives birth to the child is a biological mother. The interpellant was inside that the child being born has in a way three mothers. The biological mother who gives birth to the child is not considered to be a mother abroad; it is the one who has given birth to the biological eggs that will be. While in Norway it is said that it is the mother who gives birth to the child, according to the laws of other countries it is the one who receives the child, or who has biological links with it, that is the mother. So it's a problem. I had a personal experience in a meeting where we discussed surrogati on a general basis, where a person who participated suddenly said that yes, I have used surrogati because I have been through so strong cancer treatments that I could not have more children. She used her biological eggs and her husband's sperm, and made her sister carry this child forward. It was for her a completely natural thing to do. When my sister -- now we're getting a little personal here -- asked if I could have done this for her, I have to say that as a person I would get into a dilemma considering what I had answered. But this was a little out of what I was going to say. At the same time, this only shows how difficult the theme ‘surrogati’ is. That's why, as I also said, it's important that we secure the children who become part of this. I think it is important that we are good at informing Norwegian citizens who travel to these countries that this is not accepted, that it is illegal with surrogati, and what challenges they face when they do this anyway, and when they face the dilemma of doing so. We can't start by saying that's a criminal offence. Then it is important that they are informed that they face a major challenge when they come to Norway with their child, who is being subjected to a heavy load. So once again, this is a difficult debate and an ethical dilemma, which we're going to discuss several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1926	It is important in these debates to bear in mind that the issues we are facing, and what emerges from the interpellation of Hope, are a clear expression that technology gives us many opportunities, but also very many challenges, and creates issues that we have not had to deal with in the past. There are also questions that too many people are talking about values, about ethics. What kind of instruments do you think it's okay to use to have children? And are there any instruments that are easier to accept than others, or are these instruments that can be equated? This debate, which has been discussed by many, contains two points. Firstly, it deals with how to deal with the issue of surrogati in isolation at a more general and principle level, and how to deal with the different approaches of legislation in different countries than in Norway. The second question is how we deal with the children who are born and how to find a solution to the legal issues and challenges that this creates. It is important, as the Council of State pointed out, that children's rights are respected, regardless of what one might think about the question of surrogati. Norway has international obligations to do so. It's important to bear in mind that for some people these questions are not just political issues that are about a theoretical approach to surrogati, or just an ethical question, but it's actually about what's one's closest and very dearest. It is therefore important to distinguish between the two debates. The government, like the Council of State, has done a job trying to find solutions for those who have already been born and who have already come to Norway. One hopes through a temporary regulation that one should be able to catch up with those who have already come into that situation. At the same time, as politicians, we are obliged to take into account and find solutions for the children, but we also need to be able to raise ourselves above the individual issues and see what kind of legislation we want in Norway. We must also bear in mind that all the choices we make on these issues may contribute to the further liberalisation of the law and lay the basis for new debates and questions of further liberalisation. We need to be aware that these questions will be constantly evolving, just as technology is constantly giving us new opportunities. The Biotechnology Act is under evaluation, which many have been involved in. Then the question of allowing both egg donation and again, perhaps, surrogati will be discussed quickly. It's natural that these are questions that come up in this context. The Central Party has had a restrictive position on many of these types of issues, but how to proceed with the debate must be decided by the Party. What makes it difficult to have these two debates at the same time is that those who today choose to travel abroad and have children with the help of surrogati do so with open eyes, and they know what kind of consequences it can have. Our challenge is that it's not just these parents that we can punish or punish, but that a child has actually come to the world. It makes these very questions very, very demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1947	The debate on surrogati is about the needs of adults and wants to have children. But as the interpellant correctly points out, this raises a number of ethical and legal questions about the child's and surrogate mother's situation. I don't think we have a majority in our society today to allow surrogati. I am pleased that the majority in the Biotechnology Study wants to keep the current ban. The fact that other countries allow surrogati does not make ethical and legal issues less important. It is said that a ban on surrogati, which also applies to the Nordics abroad, will not be effective, and that it will be impossible to follow up. Well, I'll put a question mark on that; I haven't seen or heard anything that documents this. On the contrary, we already have a legal provision: the ban on sex purchases abroad, where Norwegians can get problems and be punished in Norway if they buy sex abroad. Surrogati itself raises more questions than it gives answers. In several countries that allow surrogati, the legislation is designed for commercial surrogati. Are we not talking about the production and trade of children? What about the woman who carries the child, does she have a real choice? I just saw a Swedish documentary from India. Indian young mothers became surrogate mothers because of the money they received. At the same time, they had to leave their own husband and children to stay in a clinic throughout their pregnancy. What about the woman's own children who had to live without mother for months, perhaps years if the woman gave birth to more than one surrogate child? Do they do this voluntarily, or are they forced? We all know the weak position women have in many countries. We can't sit here in Norway pretending that all surrogate mothers are doing this just to help others have children? Some people use the discrimination argument when women without mothers don't have children or when homosexuals don't have children. But is it really? Is it a human right to have children? Most people will probably answer no to that. In my opinion, the child's right must always be the focus. Children have a right to know their biological parents and to be cared for by them. At least it says the United Nations Children's Convention, to which we have joined. Is biological family irrelevant to individuals? Is it true that a society is making arrangements to deprive people of the opportunity to grow up with or know their origins and their families? Another question is who should be entitled to control the foetus. Can surrogate mom take abortion if she wants to? Can anyone who has ordered the child claim abortion if there is a discrepancy? What if surrogate mother dies or is injured during birth? What if the child is injured during childbirth? Several have argued that we are faced with a revision of the Biotechnology Act. The working party women have demanded that we now allow egg donation. If this becomes a reality, I think the road to surrogati is getting shorter. Several have also been concerned about who is actually the mother of egg donation and surrogati. The child can end up with three mothers: a genetic mother who gives the egg, a biological mother who carries the child, and a social and legal mother, the one who has ordered and wants the child. Can this create any existenceal confusion in the child later? Who am I? Who really are my parents? As the interpellant was involved in his second post, it is of great importance how we as society organize when we experience that some people travel abroad and make use of surrogati. It matters how our society reacts to this. I am also concerned about the children who come in such a situation, but for me, the child's rights are more than that we organize legal work. There are many other existential questions related to surrogati, which I have tried to say a little about in my post. If it's just a legal arrangement, that it has no consequences, and that we don't have a clear law against surrogati, it also gives a number of signals. I would strongly advise against allowing surrogati both in Norway and abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1970	The debate on surrogati is about the needs of adults, as previous speakers have said. Yeah, isn't having children always about adults' wishes and needs? Last summer, a number of parents who have had children in surrogati received a letter saying that they were no longer registered as legal parents to their children, the connection was deleted or was to be deleted in the People's Register. Some of the children remained without legal parents in Norway, others have lost the legal link to one of two. With a pen stroke, a number of children were made orphaned, orphaned, some also stateless. Not much empathy is needed to understand that it is terrible for children and parents to end up in such a situation. Nor is it difficult to understand the great uncertainty it has created in all other children and parents in the same situation. I feel, like the representative Gjul, the need to apologize for what these families are experiencing. It is important to stress that many of the parents have not taken care of themselves. Many have sought guidance from the Norwegian authorities on how to proceed before the child was born. I know a couple who in 2008 contacted Nav about rights if they had children via surrogati in the United States with their own eggs and sperm cells. They received, in response – in writing – that if they had legal documents proving that they were parents, they would be entitled to parental leave – and implied legal paternity/maternity. It didn't work that way. Despite both mother and father being genetic – and not least social – parents, only father is considered a legal parent. His genetic contribution – the sperm – does not give legal parenting to the children, her contribution – the egg cell. That both are the real parents of the child with everything we put in the term ‘parents’ has no meaning. I am very pleased that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality says so clearly that the best thing for the child must be the starting point. I think we must have as our starting point that people have children in ways that others can perceive as critical. It's good that the government will clean up this situation. In 1915 the Stortinget lifted the distinction between so-called real and improper children. That children born outside of marriage should have fewer rights than husbands, today appears to be a monstrous thought. But that's how our system works with the so-called surrogate children. It is bad that Norway treats men and women differently, and it is bad that society's resources are used to draw parents into doubt — where there is really no doubt. Surrogati is not allowed in Norway. But it is allowed in a number of other countries, and as many as 900 Norwegian children can be born in this way. There is nothing illegal about the way these children have come into the world. The agreements concluded are valid and enforceable in the country in which the child was born. Most children born at surrogati abroad, have both a mother and a father, while some have only one parent, others have two parents of the same sex. The latter has received the most attention, because, for obvious reasons, they are not both biological parents. Nevertheless, according to Norwegian law, the surrogate is alone, possibly also her husband, who is the only parent of the child. Under the law of her home country, she has no rights and obligations, while under Norwegian law she has all. In other words, we export Norwegian rights to people who do not want them, and obligations to countries that do not recognise them. No need to put the child's best aside in this way. The interpellant represents a party that has been the most important brake block in family policy. The lot now uses words as ‘children’s production’ about surrogati and compares it with kidnapping and sex purchase. The party recently promoted proposals – a so-called father strategy – that affect single, heterophobic childrenless and gay. The Christian People's Party will restrict the possibility of adoption and reduce the offer of help to the involuntary childless. It's not about securing the kids. The current inter-pelling debate is taking place among such initiatives. The world is full of children who need care. Adoption must be a real alternative for anyone who wants children. It's not like that today. Parents of the same sex are in reality cut off from adopting. For everyone else, the length of the procedure is too long. Norway only cooperates with half as many adoption countries as Denmark. There are many things we can and should do to increase the possibility of adoption in Norway. Rarely is the worn cliché of having two thoughts in his head more in his place. Ensuring that children living in Norway have a legal relationship with their parents is not the same as saying yes to surrogati. Surrogati raises a number of ethical questions. On one thing, however, there can be no disagreement: children need parents!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e1993	I think it's important that we all have to accept that it's entirely legitimate to love children, regardless of the position of the different ways kids come to, and I think it's important that we all accept that it's completely legitimate to love children. It's confirming children's self-esteem, as the Council of State said. I mean, you're not an egoist if you want a child. There is no need for an article in the Convention on Human Rights in order to ask for children to be legitimate. It's too many a big and genuine wish, and it must be a legitimate wish. It's just to look around the community how much is centered around the family, how much existential it is to set up a family too many. It's legitimate to love children. Then it's quite clear that one has to regulate how it can be done. The debate on surrogati is not a simple debate. There's a big and nuanced debate, and I didn't think that a clear solution points out as the perfect one. When it comes to the question of the young people we have debated here until now, it should not be difficult. I'm very happy that the government is now cleaning up the situation of those kids who have been without legal parents for several months. As Mr Haugli said, we must strengthen the possibility of adoption. Fortunately, we have a common marriage law today, but among other things. as a result of a lack of cooperation countries, homosexuals do not currently have a real opportunity to adopt. I strongly want us to work more actively to provide some more co-operation countries than we have today, and to improve adoption processes. Research and development within assisted fertilisation is also important. Norway has been in the leadership since the 1980s when it comes to using new technologies and developing new methods. About 30,000 infants in Norway are born as a result of assisted fertilisation. Many have had their baby, and I am proud that we are good at this in Norway. There may be reasons why one could not have a child, but today, through treatment, one can have it. Some of the things that made it possible that a previous one might have evaluated surrogati can be resolved by assisted fertilization. The Christian People's Party is busy delimiting the use of surrogati abroad. Then it is with a little wonder that I look at the proposal in Stortinget, about an equivalent parent, or the so-called father strategy. For I think it is important that we also see the policy in a healthy state. If it is then that one weakens the system of assisted fertilization, and in addition perhaps proposes to reverse marriage laws, does the Christian People's Party then believe that a person would get a lesser amount of use of surrogate mothers abroad? I don't think so. I think we can do more – and we do a lot in Norway – to make it possible for more people to have children. I also want to mention the use of resampling. We often hear about such things as ‘surrogate children’, ‘donor children’ and ‘protester children’ — very few talk about home-made children, and we may not start with that either. I think we should be careful about tagging kids. I don't claim that anyone does that in this debate, but I feel that as politicians we have an important task in working against stigmatisation, and we have to remind ourselves what we do when we use these manipulations. The child’s perception should be that everyone is the same world and that they should have the same dishes. As the Council of State said in a brilliant way, we may be critical of surrogati, but we should not be critical of the young. I would like to invite the Christian People's Party to be with us in the work of pressing for more cooperating countries that will allow homosexuals to adopt, press for the development and research of technologies and methods in assisted fertilization. I have seen in the Christian People's Party's party program that they also want to develop schemes of assisted fertilization, which I think is very good. The only thing I'm a little curious about is what they put in the word "develop." It might be interesting to get an answer. In respect of the cases, the whole debate about for or against surrogati in Norway is not a debate we can now have in our health. It is now primarily about securing the young people we have mentioned in the debate, who are without legal parents, and then there will be debates later on how to deal with the surrogacy issue. I also found it very interesting what the Council of State says to look at international solutions when it comes to human rights and regulation of so-called private international law. First of all, it is important that we strengthen the areas we have in Norway to help both men and women have their own baby. We must strengthen the work of adoption and defend and develop the system of assisted fertilisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e2020	I want to start by thanking you for the debate. It has been interesting, and there are many important issues that are affected by many speakers on a comprehensive theme. I said in my post that I am pleased that there is such broad agreement to stand up for the unique self-esteem of children and for the fight against the exploitation of women, and thus say no to surrogati. I would like to sum up the debate by saying that I am pleased that no one has taken the floor to allow surrogati, and in this way confirms that the policy is firm. At the same time, the signals about how to think in the future have given me – I will allow myself to say – a significant surprise in the debate. I didn't think I'd be standing here and saying that. But the openness and the lack of clarity in the future policy, I have to say that I am a little surprised. There have been discussions about how to speak, and what you think about the principle of surrogati. I agree with SV's party leader and former Minister for Children, who say, among other things. in a chronicle of VG: ‘We should challenge this as one of many dilemmas in the debate on surrogati; although a man is a biological father of the child – is such a transaction still a trade in children?’ It is a vital and central question to ask. I hear a lot of red-green politicians who are concerned about pointing to the dilemmas and the different considerations that stand against each other here. Yeah, that's exactly what politics is. It's when different interests meet that we need politics. That's when it's our job to decide which interest is what we put first, and what interest is what we put as number. two. That is the policy's main task. That's exactly what we're going to decide – for children's interests and for women who are being exploited in other parts of the world today. I'm a little surprised that I don't hear any more red-green voices with a strong commitment to that particular issue. I must say I am very surprised. I am also amazed at the lack of awareness of the reasons behind the international conventions on which Norway is obliged in this area. The best of the children is defined far beyond what is referred to here as the best of the child, as a one-sided need for legal parenting. It's important, but the child's best includes a lot, and we have to take the whole debate to protect children and women in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e2040	I think this has been an interesting and exciting debate, to reflect. I'm going to spend some time afterwards reflecting on what was said here. We are also given ample opportunity to take this discussion in its full breadth in the future, as we are also going to establish a permanent law gradually. In order to touch some of the posts that have been: I also fully understand that the parents who were affected by the letter from the Tax Directorate got not only a surprise, but they got a life crisis, and that should not happen. That's why we've also done what we can to clean up through the temporary regulation and the temporary law, so that we can establish the legal, and no one should live in uncertainty about what's most valuable to them, which means the most. So it's pointed out the different dilemmas associated with this. As the representative of Håkon Haugli, I also think that the starting point is that both having children and not having children are about adults' needs, both of them. To characterize the one as something that primarily has to do with the children, I don't buy. There is a need for adults to have children that are the starting point when you have children, and sometimes you also get a chance if you really didn't want them. As Mr. Wagslid points out, it is entirely legitimate to want children, but it is not legitimate to do so in any way. But then the dilemma is with the rug that we have, and what we now know about surrogati and especially in some poor countries with poor legal protection, but it can also apply to rich countries, that on the one hand we are critical of surrogati and have banned it in Norway, while we know that there are many who are going out – and actually more and more – to have children anyway, and how we are going to deal with it. I can't see that there have been particularly good suggestions, really, in this debate on how to deal with it, perhaps especially from the Christian People's Party. I do not think that the Christian People's Party is clear in the debate. Do you want us to prosecute the Nordics who travel abroad to have children? Would the Christian People's Party not want us to grant rights to these children, or that we should make it most difficult to grant rights to the children? I don't think that's clear. What I am at least happy about is that everyone – as far as I can understand – stresses that these children have a self-esteem in any case, and that it should be such that if you are critical of surrogati, you are not critical of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e2053	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e2059	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e2095	In Case No: 3–6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-17.ana.ud2231e2158	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
