ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e43	The representatives Tor-Arne Stroem and Åge Starheim, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. Four permit applications are available: by Mr Øyvind Vaksdal, on Monday 21 May to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris of the Workers' Party on the leave of Mr Sonja Mandt, on 21 and 22 May to attend meetings of the Nordic Council of Helsinki from the representative Morten Höglund on care leave from 21 May to 1 June from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Truls Wickholm from 21 May until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Tone LiljerothFor Oslo: Karin YrvinFor Rogaland County: Terje HallelandFor Vestfold County: Heidi Ørnlo
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e104	Tone Liljeroth, Karin Yrvin, Terje Halleland and Heidi Ørnlo are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e109	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to postpone the implementation of the data storage directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e114	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after the No. 1 and 2 on the current map have been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 3 and 4 at the end of today's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e134	Today, the Storting writes history in the treatment of Document No. 12:10 – Follow-up to the 2008 Church Agreement. First of all, we're going to adopt the biggest change in the Constitution ever since 1814. It's worth marking in itself. Secondly, in the spring of 2008, Stortingen's unanimous decision on the relationship between church and state is now being grounded. The size follow-up of the settlement based on the so-called State-Church settlement signed on 10 April 2008. That means we no longer want a state church. At the same time, the Norwegian Church, an Evangelical Lutheran Church, shall remain the Church of Norway's people and shall continue to be financed by the public, as can be seen from new Section 16 of the Constitution. I will commend those who in the last great age managed to reach a unanimous decision, a unanimous settlement, on the future of the Church, based on more autonomy, delegation of power, democratisation, the need for continuity and security, and that the Norwegian Church should be further developed as an open and inclusive people's church. I would like to stress how important it is that the Church has a broad lashing among its members. This must mean that more people participate in church elections, and that all members feel belonging to their church. It must also mean strengthening the Church as a cultural bearer and a cultural intermediary. It is when one feels secure for one’s own values that one can understand and respect the choices of others, the values of others and the culture of others. I would also like to take this opportunity to praise Oslo Cathedral and other churches' capacity for inclusion and coherence after July 22nd last year. It is with great gratitude that we express respect for the work that was done then. But the church is also a meeting place for preaching and believing in the communities, where people can seek inner security in common with others. We should remember that, too. However, today’s constitutional changes would not have been possible if we had not received the major reform that the 1996 Church Act brought about. The reform of the law was promoted by the Council of State Gudmund Hernes, in Stortinget Jon Lilletun was rapporteur-in-chief. On 23 March 1996, the newspaper Our Country had a headline from the debate entitled ‘The Last Church Law?’ — with question marks. Our country predicted a new state-church selection and added: «It is hardly 15 years until the next time the Church of State is on the Storting agenda». Then we can count the number of years! The Church Act of 1996 meant the largest transfer of administrative and employer responsibility from state and municipality to church bodies so far. In addition, the Stortinget was concerned with increasing internal democratisation and the further development of an open church in the community. It was as a result of the 1996 Act that elections to the councils were added together with the major elections. The Church, Education and Research Committee then considered that the choice should be added to two days and made better known in the local environment by means of notices. The Committee was also concerned with a nomination process that could capture the width of the Church's mass. It's worth noting that the turnout at that time, in the mid-1990s, was 2.9 pst. It actually means that a lot has happened – and that it goes in the right direction. A significant premise in the 2008 church settlement was that it should – and should – implement a democratic reform, so that the Church’s organs get a stronger legitimacy and anchoring among church members. This means real choices, increased use of direct elections — and continued church elections at the same time as public elections. The Church Research Foundation, KIFO, has conducted an evaluation of the church elections in 2009 and 2011. The vote has increased to 13 pst. in 2011. Many would say it's too low, but it's a formidable increase. The survey also shows that a wider group of church members is likely to be mobilised in the last two elections. That means that more people were aware that it was church elections, and that's important. Then, of course, many have had problems understanding how to vote, especially for the Bishops' Council. We have to respect that. And we're going to keep working on that. It's a challenge for the Church to make sure that it does. I believe that the interest in elections in the Church will depend on the role of the Church in the local environment – as a religious community and as a cultural centre. Even I am still full of gratitude for the commitment of several Oslo churches to the resignations of Nidar-Bergene and other industrial companies that disappeared from the city here 20 years ago. If you go back to newspaper headlines from that time, you will see that the then Bishop Aarflot and the then head of the Oslo Trade Union were united in the work of the industrial workplaces, and in order to take care of the employees who were laid off. I just think that the governance and the relationship between church and municipal administration must be organised in such a way that the Church becomes visible and central to people's everyday lives. The vast majority of the members of the Church are at grassroots level. That is where democracy begins, that is where democracy must be further developed. There will be disagreement if the overall reform of democracy has been satisfactorily followed up by the Church. The Committee considers that this is the case according to the criteria, as formulated in the church settlement. The Committee assumes that, in the light of the discussion at the 2013 Church Meeting – i.e. in cooperation with the Church – the government will return to the Stortinget on its own matter on the Church's electoral system. I think that'll be important. Among the constitutional changes adopted today is that the majority of the government no longer needs to be members of the Church. This is done by repealing the second paragraph of Section 12. Equally important is the repeal of the second paragraph of Section 27 that government members who do not confess to the public religion of the State do not participate in matters relating to the State Church. The so-called Church Council of State will be removed – and the Council of Churches will not have to be a member of the Church of Norway. Then we'll see, as the Council of State also said today at the NRK, if that's how future governments choose to have their own church council. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has received large volumes of signatures against the amendments to the Constitutional Act § 2. The Signatories believe that the changes mean the dechristening of Norway — and some go so far as to say that this is a regular coup d’état. We have also heard and seen them today. They have sung and cried, and they have been near the Storting – and some of them are still outside the Storing. The change in Section 2 implies that the basis of value in the Basic Law remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. The Constitution shall ensure the rule of law, guarantee democracy and guarantee human rights. To those who are afraid of what the changes in Section 2 will mean: We change this paragraph in confidence that we stand up in our own value tradition – the Christian and humanist. Then it is easy to respect the views of others and the religion of others. We are in a multicultural and multi-religious society – that means we also have to take that into account. Let me add: The Church's message is a dynamic force also in our modern society and within our frameworks, as it has been through various developments up through history. The Church must today relate to a different reality than too few years ago. It also does today's church, as Oslo Cathedral became the center of grief after July 22nd – in close cooperation with other religions. Those of us who feel at home in the Church, but at the same time demand a social exposure sometimes, are representative of a large potential of future churchgoers and future church election voters. Therefore, the Church must have visions of a society that has the quality of life for all, and respect for the faith of others as well. This does not mean that we dechristen Norway, as telephones, e-mails and letters accuse us of. On the contrary, § 2 stands high, where we base our values on the Christian and humanistic heritage. The content of the Norwegian Church and the place of Christianity in our society do not change as a result of the changes in Section 2. I'll show you that 80 pst. Nordics are members of the Norwegian Church. In the Workers' Party, we have always been concerned with a church that cares about local communities, but also nationally and globally, a church that is able to convey care, love and forgiveness at the personal level, but also a church that can engage in the global challenges, a church that shows warmth, but – when needed – also anger. We've also seen that. Int. 233 S we also deal with Document No. 12:2, 12:20 and 12:25 respectively from the Socialist Left Party, Left and Center Party. Today, the majority will vote in line with the 2008 Church Agreement. I expect that the three parties themselves will justify why the proposals are maintained even if the same parties also vote for the follow-up of the church settlement. With this I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee on Document No. 12:10 and the majority voting of the other three documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e200	Let me first thank the rapporteur for the wise and well-chosen words. I mainly agree with what the rapporteur has said. Today is a historic day for the Church and for the nation. After centuries of state governance of the Norwegian Church, the Constitution is to be amended to give the Church its well-deserved freedom from state domination. The ties between state and church are to be resolved, but the ties between church and people are to be strengthened, it was said after the church conciliation. That is basically well said. I am, as it says in the proposal, one of the proposers among many and was myself one of the gross workers in the church committee, as our country wrote today. Although the paper does not give a very precise picture of how these negotiations actually took place, it is interesting to see. In any case, these rough workers did such a good job that it seems that an almost unanimous increase ends up with the proposals today. We ordinary church members are hardly going to notice so much about these changes with the first, but that the Church is now giving room for action to evolve as an independent religious community, the ability to appoint its own leaders and to further develop relations between the Church and the church members without the state's clumsy hand, is a long step in the right direction. As church members, we will also have greater influence through new electoral arrangements. I would also like to pay tribute and tribute to an overall political environment for the efforts and courage needed to bring about such major and important changes. Since the occasion is so rare, I would also particularly like to thank former Church Minister Trond Giske for what finally became a neat and honest debate, with a view to the best possible outcome for state and church. I also want to send some thoughts to my opposition colleagues, who have acted neatly and collectively in night negotiations, both during and after the church conciliation. I regret this setting and some comments in the media that the Central Party will not be in favour of the agreed agreement. It's sad, and it builds up under a political contempt that I hope we all tried to fight by being honest and honest in our political actions. It is not difficult to understand that there is a crack in government cooperation from time to time when the centre party turns its back on the agreement that has been concluded with their own leaders in the front. The handshake of a center party is no longer what it was. For the Progress Party, it has been important that we as a nation should not lose our Christian foothold through these changes in the Constitution. In what becomes new Section 2, our Christian and humanistic heritage is established as our basis of value. The Constitution has not previously had a value paragraph, and with this change, the Storting makes clear what values our further community building actually takes on. I have seen that there are some who have committed themselves to keeping the Basic Law section 2 unchanged, as adopted by the founding fathers in 1814. That train was already running in 1851, when the provision was changed for the first time, so that Jews too could access the kingdom. This provision has since been amended several times, and a part that argues – both on the outside here and elsewhere – that the founding fathers knew what they were doing in 1814 is probably not entirely aware of the consequences that that position actually has. Some have also claimed that Paragraph 2 of the Constitution today gives the Bible a kind of rank as a legal document. It's probably based on a misunderstanding of what Section 2 actually holds. Today there are three elements of Section 2 of the Basic Law. Firstly, freedom of religion is guaranteed. It is a provision that was included in Section 2 of the Constitution as late as 1964. This provision is now being moved to new Section 16. The second element is to give the church system a constitutional anchoring. It is not, therefore, a question of imposing restrictions on the general law of the State, but it is mainly directed against the State or the King as a church government. The third element that § 2 deals with today is the obligation of the contractor. It is an obligation under the Constitution that all members of the Church of State should raise their children in the same faith. It is an obligation that has been for a long time without any particular real significance. I spend some time on this because I think it's important, and because in public vocabulary, there's a part that deliberately tries to confuse around these questions. The last argument I have seen in the series is that these changes we are going to make today are going to be contrary to Section 112 of the Constitution, because the changes are supposedly contrary to the spirit and principles of the Constitution. It's a vision from which you can of course argue. If you actually believe this, you have in our wonderful legal state the opportunity to go to court with the state to have the Supreme Court independently assess this. Even I think this will be of little use, for two reasons. Firstly, I believe that the decision we will take later today is clear within the framework of Section 112. Secondly, I would like to see it as almost unmistakable that the Supreme Court should put aside an almost unanimous decision on constitutional changes in a normal constitutional situation, as unconstitutional. Nor should we lose sight of the fact that the Basic Law § 2 is only one of several provisions that are being amended today. All provisions giving the State a decision-making role towards the Church are amended. The new religious paragraph, Section 16, is also interpreted in a somewhat cunning way. It is alleged that the provision that religious and life-view societies other than the Norwegian Church will also receive financial support from the State means a kind of equality of all religions, in a constitutional sense. It's relatively unexplained. Our basis of value is still to be Christian, as stated in Section 2. But it is true that the state, which gives money to one religious community, must also give money to other religious and life-view societies. It's a duty we already have today. The framework for this is, of course, laid down by law. But to suggest, as some have done, that it will have an impact on the relationship between religions and yet on the cross of the Norwegian flag, for which some on social media have strongly argued, is very far from the actual situation. The decision taken today is the result of a long political process over many, many years. There have been many investigations. Public vocabulary has been extensive, and it has been debated in various events on this for many, many years. The result that all of the bulky parts – except the Centrette – are behind is very good. That's good for the Church. That's good for the state. It is good to ensure our Christian and humanistic heritage as the basis for the further construction of the country – along with the basic principles and the premises laid by democracy, the rule of law and human rights. These are changes we should be proud of. There is a historical suspense of the changes that will be adopted today, and congratulations are in place. I therefore recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party follow the attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on all points.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e240	Few constitutional cases have been dealt with as thoroughly in this room as just the question of reforms in the relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church. This issue has been more or less permanent on the agenda for the last 150 years. On 10 April 2008, a political agreement was reached between all the parties on the Stortinget, the so-called Church Agreement, on which the Right fully supports. These are changes to seven of the Basic Law paragraphs. In the meantime, we've had a big choice. People have been able to say what they think – the agreement has been put forward for public debate. It surprises me, therefore, that so many reactions have occurred now, a few days before treatment, when we have gone forward in a constitutional way: this has been out of public view and debate for many, many months. It is important for me to point out that there are some elements of the church system that are continuing. The Norwegian Church shall have a separate anchor in the Constitution § 16 and the organisation of the Church shall be governed by the Church Act. The State shall continue to pay and assume the responsibilities of the employer for bishops, pros, priests and other church employees who are not paid by the municipalities. Furthermore, the State shall ensure that the municipalities have obligations to finance the activities of the local church. Let me also say that for the right, this case has had two sides. It's not just about what church order we're going to have, it's probably so much about what state Norway is going to be, what value base the Norwegian state is going to have. This is expressed in the new section 2 of the Constitution: “The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage.” Far more clearly, it cannot be said. Those who are talking about a valueless country, or about a state without value anchor, are not aware of the provision to be adopted today. Faith is a very personal matter, and it is unnatural for a state to stick to a state religion. At the same time, we are of the opinion that it is quite natural that the Norwegian Church has a special position, given the legacy and tradition on which Norway is based, and the place the Church has had in our history. It is also important for the Right to respect the Church as a religious community, not just as an organisational structure for solemn occasions in life. That means that the Church must, of course, have great autonomy in its internal rule, especially in matters of learning and in the appointment of its own leaders. It's unnatural for a religion to be governed by the state. The right has also always thought that a strong government of the Church is holding the Church back. The process of democratisation — and to the extent that the process of liberalisation — in the Church has never progressed faster than in recent years, where the Church has gained autonomy through the creation of the three-level model, with the Council of Churches, the Council of Bishops and the Council of Churches. Democracy reform is therefore not about introducing democracy into the Church, but about continuing to participate in the democracy that already exists. We are very pleased with the solution we have been given, and it is good that we are now able to untie the ties between the state and the church, even if they do not disappear completely. We hope – and we believe – that this will lead to closer ties between church and people. We are pleased that a democracy reform is being launched, which the Norwegian Church itself has wanted and has been working with for a long time. In this respect, we have seen that an evaluation of church elections in 2009 and 2011 concluded that voting participation in the councils has increased from 3 to 4 pst. the reform of democracy to approx. 13 pst. last year, in 2011. We think this is a positive development, but it's still a bit of a way to go. It is assumed that, in the light of the Church's consideration of the proposals, the government will return to the Stortinget with its own case on a new electoral system for the Norwegian Church during the spring of 2013. The main objective of the Right is to secure a church that is open, secure and democratic. To a large extent, this is up to the Church itself in the coming years. Now it gets better opportunities, including: by choosing their own bishops, to become just this to a greater extent than today. We therefore welcome the proposals in Document No. 12:10, and I advise Right-wing representatives to vote in favour of these and against other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e269	I take up SV's proposal, so I will not forget it, and then I say that SV will substantially vote for the agreement. The case spokesperson has done well for the historical moment we have today, in a good way, and we have been working on this for a long time. Not least our representative, Rolf Reikvam, has done a great job, based on my party's views on this matter. It is clear that the case-speaker presents the premises here: there will still be a strong connection with the state, taxpayers will still finance it, and be born, one will be born into the church we have today. There's a lot of things that stand out in terms of making this real difference. For SV's part, we are very fast trains, but we find that the bulk of them are running on the old tracks we have in Norway, because this is slow. A lot faster could happen if you agreed with the SV that you are proposing today. Then it becomes a little strange when someone claims that there is a coup d'état happening today. It would be a coup d'état if SV's proposal were accepted, I believe, but that a plural decision in the Stortinget should be a coup d'état, I must say is completely new to me on the left. The reason why we really want a divorce is that we experience this as a way of discriminating against the views of life and religions. The fact that one actually has a public religion means that some other views of life and religions are discriminated against, because ours is better than the others. That's why the way forward towards achieving this real distinction is very important for SV's principle view, not least given the diversity we have in Norwegian society today, where we have many different religions represented. Then my SV it's wrong that it's one that should be assigned. We must have a real religious freedom, and we must have an freedom of choice and democracy for all in Norway, not so that we prefer a religion. I don't have to repeat everything that has been said by formalities when it comes to paragraphs and such, by our distinguished case-speaker, Marit Nybakk, but I have made up a proposal that is much better than what I have to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e284	Today’s Constitutional Debate concerns the future relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church, as formulated in the Church Agreement of 10 April 2008. In today's attitude from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, one also deals with the draft Constitution as promoted by representatives of the Centre Party in Document No. 12:25. This is proposal No. 2 in the setting. I take this up and recommend that the representatives of the Central Party vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Proposal for a decision, IV in the vote, which was agreed by the Church on 10 April 2008, will be voted in favour of by the majority in the Central Party’s Group of Great Britain, while at the same time the custom-of-the-counter group will be asked freely on such questions. After a personally demanding balance between a settlement that received as little majority as possible at the Central Party’s Grand Prix Group Treatment in 2008 and the long-term consequences that I acknowledge the conciliation entailed, with a gradual change away from the broad people’s Church – which, in my opinion, is so valuable – I will vote against the settlement. I am one of the Central Party's largest representatives who promote their own draft constitution in Document No. 12:25. There we emphasize that the Norwegian Church is a people's church with a thousand-year-old roots in the country, and it is not least important that the Norwegian Church should also embrace those who want to live an active religious life. The Norwegian Church shall be open, inclusive and meet the individual in its poor faith and in its great doubt, a hallmark of national major events and accidents, and meet those who want it in their everyday lives and at milestones in life. The centre party will have a liberal and inclusive church, freedom of belief and religion and protection of human dignity. These are building blocks in today's and future multicultural Norway. The Church and the Christian, humanistic cultural heritage have been marking land and peoples for more than 1,000 years, and must still be the basis of values for the nation. The church system has been politically debated and subjected to a number of investigations over the last 150 years, as several have been involved. In spite of this, in the Central Party we have not recorded that there is any great demand to change today's church system. On the contrary, we feel that most people perceive today's system as functioning well. As a church society, the Norwegian Church has a very high and stable uprising. About 85 pst. the population is members. So if we take the 2003 figures into account, as the Gehönes range does, it's going to be 90 pst. of children of members of the Norwegian Church baptized. The proportion of the confirmation is 68 pst, the proportion of the marriage of 52 pst. and the whole number of tombs of 94 pst. It bears witness to a church that is strong in the people, and that works well. In any case, it is difficult to read these figures as a danger signal requiring a new and radical reorganisation of the Norwegian Church. The strong welcome is also confirmed by the round of consultations with the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, with a total of about 85 pst. by the local church bodies had delivered an opinion, where a clear majority said no to the model of the Gjønnes Committee and gave its support to maintaining the strong ties between the state and the church. It is well worth noting that on this issue there is a distance between the grassroots of the Church and the leadership of the Church, and also to some extent between individual parties and the grassroots. In the state-church debate, one of the arguments against today's system is that it discriminates against other religious and life-view societies. Several investigations into the church system have found that it is not. The Sjøl Bakkevig selection, which entered for a distinction between state and church, concluded that: ‘that there is strictly nothing to do with the legal aspects of the state church system which are directly contrary to human rights’. It is then interesting to record the comments of people with another religious affiliation who experience the foundational anchoring as positive. It signals that the state has a clear value anchoring, and it is an expression that the state recognizes the need and value of the religious. Thus, the explicit recognition of religion as part of the foundation on which we build our state form in Norway through the Church of Norway is perceived as reassuring to people who profess other religions here in Norway. It may also be close to mentioning today's financial system, in which all life-view and faith-based societies receive an equal amount of the crown in grants per member. This is also, of course, a completely necessary mechanism for fulfilling the state’s obligations to facilitate full freedom of life and belief. The question of a change in the church system concerns both fundamental constitutional conditions and the ability of individuals to practice religion. A constitutional anchoring of the Norwegian Church provides an important reference to the tradition, belonging and identity of Norway as a nation. The use of the label ‘public church’ is in itself no guarantee that the Church is actually perceived as open and inclusive. For me, it is important to stress that the Church does not consist only of the formal ecclesiastical bodies. The Church is the community that includes all the baptized, who still chooses to be members of the Norwegian Church, regardless of belief and doubt. For me, it is therefore essential to fight for the Norwegian Church to be a popular church in the future, where there is room for the little faith and the great doubt. I believe that this is best taken care of by a constitutional state church system, where the King of State Council is the supreme church government. Let me point out here that the Central Party stated that the agreement on democratic reform in no way meant an automatic transfer of bishops. The results of the church elections and the evaluation of the trials started were to be subject to a real assessment before the Central Party voted in favour of the current constitutional amendments to entrust the appointment of bishops to the Church's organs and to wind up the church council. For the Central Party, it is important that the institutionalised arrangements lead to the real strengthening of democracy in the ecclesiastical organs, so that it provides a sufficiently broad anchoring of the members of the Norwegian Church. In this context, the Central Party would stress that it has a considerable responsibility on the Church of Norway to ensure stronger democratic legitimacy and anchoring among its members. The centre party is especially concerned with ensuring that the Kirka still has 100 pst. publicly funded. We warn against an arrangement in which the individual member would be charged some kind of self-payment to be a member of the Norwegian Church. No one should have to search either the wallet or the degree of personal belief in order to be accepted as a full member of the Norwegian Church. We all need to reflect on the meeting between the historical Norway and the Norway we are now and what Norway we want to develop further. Is it so that in the time we are now in, we should draw religion more out of public space, or is it the opposite? Is it that what is a common value base in our history, should now be downplayed, or is it more important now than before that we have an awareness of our value foundation? It is not from the new population groups that have come to Norway that the call to change the state church system has been strong. No, the demand has come from Kirka's leadership and from those who want a secular society, the Human-Ethical Federation. Those who push minorities in front of them to make Norway more secular have a bad case, because there is no strong call from there to remove religion from public space. In his program statement, the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says: ‘Happy are the poor’. This was contrary to the usual view of religious leadership. Jesus treated all alike — poor Samaritans, tollers, and Gentiles. The only ones he had any conflict with were the religious leadership. It is only with pietism and liberal theology in the 1800s that the notion that someone is more Christian than others is growing. Danish theologian P.G. Lindhardt, born in 1910, stated that faith is not something you have, but something you do. Several of those who want a looser bond between state and church have argued that it will lead to the Church being more critical of power. If you look at the history of the Norwegian Church in recent years, you can see that there have been people who have been critical of power, it has just been the Norwegian Church in today's system. We have seen it in the Iraq war, we have seen it in the refugee policy, and we see it in the environmental policy – most recently with Bishop Erling J. Pettersen, who in Stavanger Aftenblad on 19 May challenged the General Assembly of Statoil very strongly under the heading: ‘He who builds his house on tar sand.’ The Norwegian Church is very free. The Norwegian Church has many of the freest and most talkative voices. If there have been some strong obstacles in today's system for bishops and other spokespersons of the Norwegian Church to be critical of power, it must be based on theory and not on reality when you look at the public vocabulary that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e333	The church reform and the related constitutional changes that we are adopting today bring together broad support from the leaders of the Norwegian Church. It is not least at the request of the Norwegian Church itself that it now becomes more independent. Both bishops and democratically elected bodies welcome this reform. History tells of the enormous change our society has undergone in connection with the Christianization of our country. Then there was a paradigm shift in Norway that lacks similarity throughout our history. With the new belief, Christian law also entered the Norwegian law. I think today we hardly understand what this meant, namely the breakthrough of a new view of man and human dignity. Children, women and slaves were lifted up. Gradually, there was also a breakthrough for Christian closeness and diaconal work. Centres of care were established in monasteries, and hospitals were built. It was the Church in Norway that organized education and education. This reached a climax under Pietism, when we got the first law of primary school. In school, from the beginning, it was taught only in Christian knowledge. It is quite amazing to think that this was the beginning of the Norwegian educational system, which has once again been the foundation of the emergence of democracy, yes, as a platform for building our nation and modern Norway. Language, literature and music have also had much of their emergence through Christianity and through the Norwegian Church. In the period after we got our constitution in 1814, as we know, there have been huge changes in our society, and there have been significant changes within the Church as well. Gradually, the Church of State has increased autonomy, with democratically elected bodies such as the Council of Churches, the Council of Bishops and the Council of Churches with their own church meeting. The church meeting is also a legislative assembly on inner-church issues. In general, the Church's own bodies have assumed responsibility in the spiritual and theological sphere, properly on the delegation, except for the appointment of the Church's top leaders. The look back on history is with us and underlines the strength and depth of the roots of the National Church in our people. It also shows how people and communities and churches are interwoven over time. The most important thing for the Church's future is perhaps not the relationship between state and church, but the relationship between church and people. The relationship between church and people is particularly evident in the marking of large national events — in joy and sorrow. July 22 was an important reminder of this. The church's natural central role was noticed, noticed far beyond the church circles. Events related to our royal house and other occasions affect us as a nation. Here the Norwegian Church has a central role. It is fully possible to ensure that these functions are also carried on in a future church model – for those who may be concerned about the existence of the church. With such close ties between state and church and with such a large majority church, freedom of belief and life is particularly important. It is one of the guiding principles of our constitution and at the same time a universal right. We have a great responsibility to facilitate the best possible situation, so that freedom of faith is not violated, which I believe the new section 16 is well preserved. Freedom of belief and life, together with freedom of expression, is fundamental in a democratic society. This means that the state should not interfere with the beliefs and beliefs of individuals. It also implies that the internal affairs of different religious communities must be respected by the State. The State must not interfere with the inner life, function and organization of religious communities. Learning questions and personnel issues, including the appointment of bishops and pros, should not be determined by politicians but by the religious communities themselves. This must also apply to the Norwegian Church. The Norwegian Church must be respected as an independent religious community. That is why the Christian People's Party is now pleased that we are today adopting constitutional changes that involve the transfer of the appointment of bishops and prosthetics from the Church Council to the Church itself. One prerequisite for this church reform was that a democratic reform should be started in the Church, as the Norwegian Church itself wanted, and had worked with it for a long time. The church agreement established the elements to be implemented: increased use of direct choice of church elections shall be carried out at the same time as public choice of real choice; This is therefore a reform to be assessed on the basis of structure and not as a percentage of the turnout. Let me make it clear: it is about making it possible for all members of the Norwegian Church to – and that it is easy and simple – participate and participate in the influence of the Norwegian Church. It is not an obligation or a quantity of percentage points. The Church has now carried out two choices. The potential for improvement is absolute, in particular in the case of the Bispedic Council elections. Very many votes were rejected because people didn't know what to do. The rating alphabetically had the effect that it was easier to be chosen with a surname that started with a letter early in the alphabet than a letter late in the alphabet. I actually think I would have been elected into a Biscopal Council, because I have a surname starting at B. It's clear that there's a potential for improvement here. But most importantly, the Church itself is also aware of this. They do not want a poor electoral system and will take the necessary steps to get it right. I am very pleased that the Council of Churches has established that the Church was in the test of democracy. I think it was neat of the council to put unjustified doubt aside. In the agreement, in agreement with the Norwegian Church, there was agreement that a democratic process would be carried out. It has been implemented by the Church, and then the constitutional amendments are also to be adopted. Let me finally say a little about Section 2 of the Constitution. The aim of the agreement was to give more autonomy to the Norwegian Church by loosening the ties between the State and the Church. Then a natural also had to replace § 2 of the Constitution, where it is established that «Evangelic Lutheran Religion remains the State's public religion» with a value paragraph for the nation. Some have expressed concern that Norway is now moving in an even more secular direction, that Norway is now, with this decision, so to speak, being christened. It is, in my view, a completely unfounded concern. On the contrary, the parties have finally agreed that Christianity should continue to be an important part of the Constitution of Norwegian society – to the great extent of annoyance for some. There were also some parties who wanted Christianity not to be mentioned in the Constitution. That was the situation. But we in the Christian People's Party had an inevitable demand when we entered into these negotiations, and it was that Christianity still had to have a central position. Through the negotiations, we were able to see through this, and I would like to thank the other parties for finally agreeing with us on this, and that there was agreement that Section 2 would be changed to: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’ Thus, we have secured a new value paragraph that clearly refers to Christian values. The word ‘remains’ points both to the back and to the forward and, by standing as the first sentence of Section 1, refers the wording of the value to the Kingdom of Norway. Christianity characterizes our human vision, our values, our laws, our history and our culture. A new arrangement of church-state relations does not mean that these values are removed from the Constitution. The Christian People's Party believes that the new paragraph is a better tool to ensure continued anchoring in the Christian value base than the current one and thus also a better tool to ensure that society continues to build on this heritage. In the end, I think it is excellent that faith and life views and the state's responsibility to finance them for the first time come into our constitution. This is, as I have mentioned before, especially important in a society with a majority church of the size we have. It is possible to have a clear value anchoring and at the same time to have an inclusive foundation law. I recommend that the Christian People's Party Group vote in favour of the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e397	I also believe that this is an important day and a day as there is a very good time in the Norwegian storehouse. There has been a long debate, it has taken a long time, and too many parties have been long processes. We've had a big choice where the people could vote out of these intelligences. It remains to be seen whether those who vote against this Chamber today had this as a large part of their election campaign and let it mark the mandate given to them by their voters, but I will leave it. What we're doing today is we're giving the Church back to the Church, so the state no longer needs to use the Church to exercise its power. Because that's what's happened to history. The Christians of Norway are not characterized by the sacred glory that we sometimes bring forward. I don't think it was when it stood between the sword and the sovereigns, the Lord of Spring had his best days in contact with the Norwegian people. I think it's time for the Church to regain power over itself, and that the State no longer uses the Church in its power over the Norwegian people. And that's really what we're deciding today. Having a state that is non-confessional has nothing to do with the participation of other religions in society. I would have voted for exactly what I am voting for, about 100 pst. of the population of Norway had been members of the Norwegian Church. The existence of other religious communities in Norway is completely irrelevant in this distinction. For me, this distinction is in principle. I believe that the state should not govern a religious community. It has nothing to do with the participation of the other religious communities. I had come to think of it as seaworthy if everyone had been members of the Norwegian Church. That's not the starting point for my vote today. I think that all parties have experienced debate within their parties, and that they have experienced a massive race in the last few days when people have discovered what this is all about – sail if it has been out for public debate, and sail if there has been debate in the parties for many decades. It's been a very long time since these decisions were made in the Left for the first time, and we've had a debate on the design of belief and life views over many decades. What I need to explain when the Left is voting for today is what the representative Becquerad concluded his speech with. There's a compromise between all the parties here. What we do when we say that we are based on Christian and humanistic values is to go through the same process that we went through when it came to the purpose paragraph in school. When the Left votes for this today, we put into that respect for the individual and tolerance for diversity. The basic values we're talking about here are probably values that we have to say in all objective terms are found in most religions and outlooks, but it refers to the historical tradition we're in. For us, it is also important that the Norwegian Church now has to determine the sea of learning and appointment. It's important to fight to have the broad people's church. It is important to have an active church with different views. I notice that many of the e-mails I have received in the last few days represent people who stand for a Christianity that is quite far from the Christianity I stand for. Nevertheless, I am pleased that we both have room in the Norwegian Church. What's sad is that a lot of the campaign is based on so many basic mistakes that it almost breaks some of the commandments we've learned. But there Anundsen had a basic and good review. Just to assure everyone, the left will not fight for a red, communist flag without a cross for Norway. So much tradition, the Left has to fight for the flag we have today, that we're not going to fight for anything else either – if it were to secure anyone. For me, it's important that we have a free church that also dares to have free opinions. I think we've had a period now when it's been so important for church leaders to hold back with the power to also hold their leadership positions, that it's done that we've got a church with fewer opinions than a church and religious community should have in the public debate. I think we have a good deal of debate where both the religious communities and the community of life have clear opinions and that this is good for the political debate. Some of us have a clockwise belief in the debate as the negotiator in terms of political opinions, the formation of opinion and the education of the individual citizen. Then it's important to have a lot of actors, with a lot of different approaches that allow the debate to elaborate on the positions we have. Then I need to say something about support schemes for religious and life-viewing societies, which I think are quite fundamental. I think it's important, in order to keep the breadth of different religious and life views, that the state supports the kind of activities that we do today. The reason why I think it is important is that we see that in those countries where religious and life-viewing societies are not funded in a harsh way by the state, the power of money will gain more and more power. For me, the nightmare is a church run by oil money from Texas, and a Muslim world supported by oil money from other oil producing countries – which would give money far too much power in religious communities. That's why I think membership should give power to religious communities. Membership means money from the state – supported by how many members it actually is. That's why I think it's important that the state has generous financial instruments, based on membership, to all religious and life-view societies in a society. It will provide wider popular support to the different religious and life-view societies. I believe that civil society should be supported regardless of who it is behind. In recent decades, the state of Norway has monopolised so much of the revenue-generating work for our civil society that it should be the task of the state to do so, also for that reason. I've been at the Old Town Congregation Council for several periods. I found it rather frustrating to choose bishop for Oslo, that the power I had as a member of the council was nothing worth compared to the power I had as a party member, with a councillor from my party. I think that's wrong. I think it's much more important that those who have elected representatives in a congregation have greater power than those who have party political membership, and know a council of states. This led to my vote as a member of the council almost nothing worth summing up, while my council voted as I thought he would vote. If you're going to build democracy in the Church, I think one of the keys to making church democracy work is not the electoral system – it's power. When people realize that the ballot they put in urna means something, the number of votes is going to increase. But when people see that they vote on a council that doesn't have power by the appointment of the bishop in their own county, or if they see that the choices they make don't affect the things that are important to them, it becomes more important to be a member of a political party than to sit in a local council. I think church democracy will be strengthened when church democracy actually gives more power. That's what's the key to getting to an active people's church with the width that we actually want. It's not that there's a voting obligation, and it's not that it's a prerequisite for the decisions we're making, that the number of votes should now be set at certain percentages. But I think it's a prerequisite that the number of votes should reach a high level of participation, that we move power downwards to the Church. I would like to address the original proposals that the Left has put forward, which we want to vote in favour of here today, and which are our primary position. It's clear that the Left would have wanted a clearer distinction than what we can achieve today. We believe that repealing Section 4 and getting to a new Section 16, which we have proposed, would be a much more principled, tidy and clearer clarification. I don't think it would be a coup d'état, but I think it would be a very principleal, tidy and a basic liberal way of formulating a constitution. I also want to say two words about the role of the Central Party – because this may be less difficult for the Left than there are too many other parties in the Chamber today. Our members probably wanted us to go further, not go too far today. Then I have to say, when you agree, when you have a process where the party places its name under, where you agree that this is a race you have to run together, and you negotiate, and you enter into negotiations on many points – as we felt we did on our primary point of view – it's nice to see that someone thinks that what you were talking about in those negotiations is not worth anything. It's also strange that as a party, no matter how close the voting was to the group meeting, you actually choose to sign an agreement that is not worth anything when you vote. The left does not think that this is our primary proposal either. The left does not think this is the ideal either. The left also believes that we gave ourselves quite a lot with regard to our primary positions in those negotiations. But we still choose to say that when Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left has put his name on, we have great respect for it. We have so much respect that we vote subsidiaryly for what we agreed in those negotiations. Because once the left has signed a sheet, there actually has to be something worth in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e435	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e438	The State and the Church have had to deal with each other for as long as they have existed in Norway. These two basic institutions of Norwegian society have fought for power and have supported each other through history. Today, the Church is taking a big step into a new era. It is a step which is primarily a sign of the Church's great importance in today's Norway. If the Church were irrelevant, we wouldn't have had to change anything. But it's not like that. The church today is experienced as a common meeting point in grief and joy for very many people. Eight out of ten Nordics are members of the Norwegian Church. That is a very good starting point for the future of the Norwegian Church. But from today on, Norway no longer has a state religion. Together we go into a new era and take several important steps to resolve the ties between state and church. Firstly, we are today contributing to the freedom of belief of the Norwegian Church through the fact that the government will no longer appoint bishops and prosthetics. With that, the Church will stand free in its choice of religious leaders. Secondly, we ensure equal treatment of different religions and views of life. It is necessary in a modern society characterized by diversity, with many different denominations and religions. Thirdly, we are making a historic church settlement that all the parties on the Great Britain have agreed on. I want to commend the settlement partners and not least the Church itself for constructive and solution-oriented cooperation throughout the process, and I am sure that the changes that are now taking place have broad political and popular support. Although the constitutional changes mean that we are no longer going to have an official religion, the Norwegian Church will still stand in a special position. The new section 2 states that Norway’s value base should continue to be the Christian and humanistic heritage. Paragraph 16 states that the Norwegian Church will remain the Church of Norway, and through its own church law, the continuation of today's financing system and continued government responsibilities for employers, we are also committed to committed cooperation between the State and the Church. In other words, the church agreement does not involve a complete release. Most people probably won't notice the transition, and that's good, but at the same time we're doing important fundamental clarifications that generations to come would think necessary. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure a democratic, red and inclusive people's church throughout the country. When it comes to relocating power in society and in the church, it is vital that democracy operates. With freedom there is also a great responsibility. A popular church depends on having elected bodies with broad support and trust among its members, and since the government is no longer to appoint bishops and pros, it becomes all the more important that the Church ensure that this happens democratically. Although more people seem to use the right to vote in elections to the Council of Churches and the Council of Bishops, the Church is still facing some unresolved tasks related to democracy and participation. With many rejected votes and getting real choices at the last elections, we believe that we can establish that the Church is on the right track, but still a bit away from the goal. It is a theme that we will come back to, and I have expectations that we will be able to correct the weaknesses that have been highlighted in the debate here today. The Constitution states that we should have a people's church, and therefore it is also worth stressing that democracy is not just about the number of votes cast in elections. Democracy is also about organisational culture, decision-making channels and members' sense of being taken seriously and belonging to a strong community, both small and large. Time and again, we see the significance of the Church when nation, community and individual people face great trials. The Church plays a major role in people's everyday lives, on major occasions and at some of the most important turning points and days marked in our lives, from baptism, confirmation and wedding to funeral. That role will continue to play by the new church – and I am absolutely sure in an open and inclusive way – around the country. I wish the People's Church good luck with a new system in a new time, and I think it's in its place to say, as others have done before me: Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e464	I've been engaged in the state church business since I became politically active in the 1980s. I came into the Stortinget in 1997, and one of the first things I did as a staggering representative and then a church-political spokesman for the Advancement Party was that together with the representatives Ursula Evje and Carl I. Hagen made a proposal that politicians should not interfere in the Church's election of a new bishop in Oslo. It was in Document No. 8:77 for 1997-1998. The proposal was rejected by the majority on 6 March 1998, according to the drawings on the excellent website of Stortingen. The view of the Advance Party on the Church has been clear for many years. Both society, church and state are best served by a distinction between church and state. In our view, a politically ruled church loses much of its legitimacy. Today's decision does not imply a full decoupling of the Church; still a clear financial responsibility is established, and the restitution of the Church will be shown in Section 16. But it goes in the right direction. There is a massive and broad disintegration of the changes that are now being made to the Constitution. Resistance to the changes has come only from marginal groups, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Christian Collecting Party, Stop the Islamization of Norway, SIAN, and Norwegian Defence League, NDL, and in some marginal Christian fundamentalist environments related among others. Ludvig Nessa. In total, this is about some pro-millionths of the population, and there is a broad consensus on the decisions taken in the Stortinget today. This broad consensus delights me, of course. It shows that the Stortinge with its decisions is on a safe footing. Several of the representatives who have spoken before me in this debate have shown that we have received some enquiries by e-mail, especially this past weekend – many of them with harsh words and assertions, very strong some of them. We have been accused of country treason, revolution and coup d'état, because we are criminals, because we want to introduce Islam in Norway, because we are historyless, because we fail those who made the Basic Law on Eidsvoll, because we are wicked, and because we want to introduce dictatorship, etc. Even someone wrote to me and several other big-time representatives last night, warned me and said that I would lie very thin when I was to be judged by Jesus on the day of judgment. I have nothing at all against factual arguments, but I have very little to do with the offending and insulting e-mails and enquiries and debates we have seen online lately. Even I'm a Christian person, I pray to God every day, I like to go to church, and I'm a member of the board of the local KFUM. When I get such enquiries as those I have recently received, I have to say that I keep my great sense of God, but some of his ground crews I put great question marks on. I want to draw parallels to the arguments that some people make regarding Islamic fundamentalism, as we see in a number of contexts: Fundamentalism scares me, whether it's Christian fundamentalism or Islamic fundamentalism. At the same time, I get a little despair when I get these enquiries, because it is obvious that a lot of people have been misunderstood or have been misguided in terms of the claims they have made. It's a part that's tried out as a hobby lawyer and just read the first few sentences of what we're going to adopt today, and draw its conclusions from it. Then things will go wrong. My colleague, the representative Anders Anundsen, explained very well how Section 2 of the Basic Law has evolved in the years we have had this, and I hope that someone will at least take up that explanation. Finally, it is my hope and my belief that the clear anchoring we are now given in Section 2 to a value base that is Christian and humanistic will be a good basis for our society in the future, and that the changes that come after today's decision will be an advantage for both society and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e491	Our church arrangement has come a long way back in time and is an important part of our history. During the Reformation in 1537, Denmark-Norway introduced Luther's teachings and broke the link with the Church in Rome. The Norwegian Church was then placed under the authority of the Danish-Norwegian King, and until the decision of the Stortinget today, the Norwegian Church has been a state church, subject to staging and government, and with the king of Norway as Kirka's symbolic leader. Let go that the Church of State probably wouldn't have been introduced if our constitution was written today, but I can't see that today's changes are grounded in a popular demand for a change in church order. My impression is on the contrary that most people think today's system works reasonably well. It was also made clear in the opinions delivered in the hearing on the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, with a total of 57 p.m. by local church councils and municipalities wanted the Church of Norway to be continued as a state church. It is Kirka's top organ that has taken the initiative and has been the strongest driver of the liberation process. Understandably, as a religious community of its own, the Church wants a release from the state in the sense that it especially wants to appoint its own leaders without interference from political groups. Today is going to be 85 pst. of all children born in Norway baptized. Most parents choose this Christian action for their children. A slightly smaller proportion chooses to confirm themselves, but this nevertheless shows that there is a strong connection with the Church of State. Many want confirmation from the Church in the special phases and events of life. In the course of this process, I have recorded that many people feel very uncertain about what this distinction between the state and the Church will mean. Statements like, "I'm not a regular church boy, but you can't take the church away from me," more people have said. This tells us that sails about a large proportion of Kirka's members have a somewhat distant relationship with the Church in their daily lives, although Kirka is perceived as an important institution and point of view for the individual. That whole 85 pst. of the population are members of the Norwegian Church, also showing clearly that Kirka still has a high uprising in the people. The central party's primary position on the continuation of the church system is not to grant privileges or support to the Church of Norway which is not granted to all other religious and life views. For the Central Party, it is important to stress that the Church does not consist primarily of the formal ecclesiastical bodies. The Church is the community that includes all the baptized, and those who still choose to be members of the Norwegian Church, regardless of faith and doubt. I still want an open, inclusive people's church with a high ceiling and a positive preaching of God's Word, where all baptized people should feel welcome regardless of background and assumptions. The state church system has proved both robust and flexible. The church arrangement gives the nation a value anchor, while at the same time respecting the function of the Norwegian Church as a religious community. In the debate on State-Church, there have been views from adherents to a liberation that today's system is discriminatory against other religious and life-view societies. On the other hand, several investigations into the church system have found that it is not. The Groundvig Committee stated the following: ‘that there is strictly nothing to do with the legal aspects of the state church system which are directly contrary to human rights.’ A constitutional anchoring of the Norwegian Church provides an important reference to the tradition, belonging and identity of Norway as a nation. For the Central Party, it has therefore been a primary position to continue the provision of the second sentence of the Basic Law, Section 2, second paragraph, which anchors the Evangelical Lutheran religion as the public religion of the State. So maybe you can ask what concrete is in this. Can a State Have a Religion? I believe that this provision has an important role to play in determining that it is a public matter to support and protect the Norwegian Church. Compared to the first paragraph of Section 2, which establishes the right to full freedom of belief, the Central Party believes that a constitutional state church has also fulfilled the function of guaranteeing the importance of different religions in society – rather than being discriminatory. A Constitutional Celebration of the Norwegian Church, cf. The first paragraph of Section 2 of the Constitution will therefore continue to have an important function in our pluralist society. The change adopted today is a result of the so-called church settlement. The Norwegian Church is still anchored in the Constitution, and the Center Party is at the same time pleased that the Christian and humanist values are enshrined in a separate value paragraph. This means an important valuable anchoring of the Constitution. Today’s church system has also been criticised, not least by the UN Committee on Human Rights, as regards the obligation on the contractor laid down in the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Basic Law, second sentence. I agree that this provision may be problematic. Such a provision is currently out of date and has no real effect on the church system itself. A statutory mandate could also be interpreted as conflicting with parental rights. This has not been a contentious topic in the discussion of changes in church paragraphs, but has been seen as a natural and correct cleanup. The king's administrative authority for ecclesiastical activities is laid down in the Constitution § 16. In recent years, there has been a significant delegation of authority from the King in the Council of State to Kirka's own organs. While it was formerly the Ministry of the Church, which decided everything from passages through the Church Year to decisions on matters of doctrine, it has now been delegated to Kirka’s own organs. The church meeting has been delegated authority on liturgical matters, and with the establishment of the subject of learning, learning issues are also guaranteed a treatment that takes care of Kirk’s need for autonomy in such matters. I believe it is natural to renew the Constitution according to current practice. In this way, Kirka’s desire for real maritime governance is also met in relation to the Norwegian Church as a religious community. The Church Agreement assumes that the authority to appoint bishops and protests is to be transferred to «church organ such as church meeting or council of bishops». The removal of the King's special church rule and the Church Council and the transfer of the adjunct authority from the Church Council to the Church bodies have been particularly demanding for the Centre Party. This concerns what the Central Party perceives is the very essence of the Church Church system. Today’s system has contributed to a diversity in the episcopal college, thus reflecting the multiplicity of the people’s church. Through the nomination process, the elected church bodies have had the opportunity to promote and vote on their candidates. The main wish of the party has been to legislate a probationary system in which the Church Council of State should select one of the three bishop candidates who have received the most votes through the electoral process. This arrangement would balance Kirk's influence over the selection of its own leaders and the King's responsibilities under the Constitution. This is the basic attitude of the Center Party. A people's church must, as the term implies, mean that churches and people must be as closely connected as possible. Such linkages take place, among other things. by a good church democracy. There has been a broad consensus that the upsurge of church democracy has been too bad. Low levels of disintegration in the elections to councils and councils of bishops have been a challenge. To date, many of the interests of the silent majority have been safeguarded by the state church system. The King of the Council of State has ensured that the great majority of Kirka has been taken into account and that smaller groupings have not been given free rein. Many historical examples show that this has been necessary and forward-looking: from the view of general voting rights to equality, female priests and homosexual and lesbian conditions. The central party's primary position in this process has been that there is still room to develop church democracy within the framework of a constitutional state church. An important premise for the church settlement was that there would be a democratic reform in Kirka with changes in the electoral system. The evaluation of church elections in 2009 and 2011 has been carried out. It reveals great challenges in making the election of the Bishops' Council and the Church Meeting work. As the representative Bekkewold mentioned earlier, he thought he could get into the Council of Bishops. I think I had had much bigger problems that have a last name that starts at W! The church agreement provided for the elections to be ‘strengthened democratic legitimacy and anchoring with the members of the church’, and: ‘Tests should be conducted using different schemes evaluated in cooperation with church bodies before the Stortinget adopts final arrangements for elections to the Church Meeting and the Bishops' Council.’ The question is whether the assumption has been reached. The evaluation concludes that there are ‘significant weaknesses in the real choices of voters following the implementation of the democracy reform’. The central party is pleased that until now the democratic process in the Church has given greater impetus to the ecclesiastical elections. And it's important to say to those who are concerned about the future of the Church, that they must engage if they want greater influence. See if there are positive effects of the reform, including: higher turnout, there is reason to be critical of the implementation of the elections of the Councils of Bishops. Both the results of the electoral system in terms of representation and the large number of rejected votes show that democratic reform does not, to a large extent, ensure good representation in the bodies in the Church that are to take over the functions currently in the Church Council. So the Central Party still votes to approve also this point on which the church settlement was based – this on the condition that it is the Stortinget who is to adopt the final electoral system. I wish the Church every success in finding a system that looks after its members in a good way. The vote has gone up, and I expect that it will also find good solutions to a new electoral system, which we will finally adopt. The centre party is pleased that the Gjønnes Committee's proposal on membership fees has been dropped. I want to warn the Church not to try to re-address the question of membership fees in the next major period. The centre party does not want a system of A and B membership in Kirka, and refers to the experience of Sweden following the introduction of the quota. The Central Party is also pleased that the changes that are now being made provide a reasonable balance between ensuring continued ties with the State and meeting Kirka’s desire for increased maritime governance. The changes we are making today affect both fundamental constitutional conditions and the ability of individuals to practice religion. I would therefore like to point out the responsibility that lies with Kirka in the future to also care for the tame membership of the members of the Church when they are about to move on. A separate draft constitution was submitted by individual representatives of the Centre Party during the previous period. In this connection, I refer you to the statement by the representative of Lundteg. With the support of the majority of the Central Party Group today, Constitutional Amendment No. 10, the majority of the Group of the Party of European Socialists will not support draft constitution No. 25-digit number The central party has as its principle and also has the tradition of not binding the members of the group on matters of faith. Therefore, two of the representatives of the Central Party will vote against Constitutional Amendment No. 10 today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e580	With the draft Constitution, which today is expected to receive the necessary support from the Stortinget, three important steps are being taken which have a major impact on freedom of belief and on the anchoring of values in the Norwegian society: The state power of the Norwegian Church is broken by the fact that the government is no longer the supreme church government the economic equal treatment of religious communities becomes the foundation law of Norway no longer has a state religion, but the value base remains our Christian and humanistic heritage With this, Stortinget marks a connection to the long lines from the introduction of Christian law in Norway. This basis of values has had different expressions, but it remains the same even after these constitutional changes. It was a very important part of the agreement that all the political parties agreed on in 2008 and that is now coming to a decision. The Norwegian Church, as a state church, has been subjected to political over-management in the matter of the appointment of bishops, and sometimes also in the matter of learning and in the question of the Church's arrangements. In principle, I would like to say that it violates the freedom of belief. When some governments have systematically used their church power to go against the Church's clear vote, for example. in the appointment of bishops, they have been fully entitled to do so under the church system, but there has been an unsustainable treatment of a religious community. Paragraph 2 is the very basis for the government's power over the Norwegian Church. It is therefore absolutely necessary to amend Section 2 on this point if we want to give the Norwegian Church freedom from state power. The claim that it would be possible to abolish the Church of State, but retaining the State religion falls in my opinion on its own unfairness. Today's Constitutional Decision marks a historic milestone in the work of many generations to reform the relationship between state and church. Some have claimed that this comes about like the Christmas evening on the kärring – it is a change that is not prepared. It couldn't have been more crazy expressed. There are few reforms that have been more thoroughly investigated, as there have been more hearings, more commissions that have looked at, and more discussions about here in the Stortinge than just the relationship between state and church. The Sivertsen Commission investigated this in the 1970s, the Church Bakkevig Committee did the same in 1998, and the Gjønnes Committee was appointed in 2003. These are just the freshest investigations. The Greens' Committee's investigation was wide-ranging, including the basic legislative proposals outlined by the Greens' Committee, which, to be confused, are similar to what is on the Storting's table today. Then there was political debate here in Stortinget, a big message of its own with the constitutional proposals being promoted, and a proposal for a new church law was made. The claim that the matter is not sufficiently well investigated lacks any basis in reality. The proposals have also been promoted in line with the procedure required by the Constitution for constitutional changes – of course they do. Therefore, the claims that this would be a rash of some kind of coup d'état are completely meaningless. The representatives of the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of these proposals together. We do that because they are fully in line with the 2007 decision of our National Assembly on changes in the relationship between state and church, and on the continuing anchoring of the Constitution in our Christian heritage. We were at the heart of the negotiations leading up to the conciliation, and we are very pleased to have had an impact on all the important points. That is why we went into our programme, on which our representatives are elected to this process, to implement the State-Church settlement under the agreement that was concluded. We see it as a very important result that finally gives the Norwegian Church its legitimate freedom as a religious community, but also recognises the non-discrimination of free churches and states that the Christian basis of values exists. For the Norwegian Church, the changes mean that the Church as a People's Church will continue to be enshrined in the Constitution. It will retain its financial support from the public. But for the first time, the right to equal treatment is enshrined in the Constitution of the Free Churches – the other religious communities. This continues the line adopted by the Stortinget in 1969, when we were given the law of ‘troudom societies and ymist others’. However, there is a historic day for Frikirke-Norway when this is written into the Constitution. I remember that when Hans Nielsen Hauge began his ministry in the years before 1814, he strongly supported the Church's state monopoly. The church monopoly on service was protected by the convention poster. Hauge was imprisoned for ten years, from 1804 to 1814, for preaching the Word of God, sentenced to break the “conventional plaque” of 1741. This law forbade so-called divine gatherings without the state, i.e. Soccer Performance, approval. But the awakening movements did not stop, and the law was repealed in 1842. There were grounds for full freedom of assembly in Norway, which was not guaranteed by the Constitution of 1814. Hauge had to go behind locks and hit because he refused to bow to the state-protected church power. There is reason to recall today that several extraterritorial leaders in Norway suffered the same fate. They were persecuted by the state power of the state church priests supported by the police, persecuted and imprisoned for exercising faith outside the state church. Throughout generations, free church communities have experienced various forms of stigmatisation, discrimination and bullying. It is now entered in the country's constitution that they should be "supported on the same line". Thus, a worthy sentence is set for a part of Norwegian history that has been anything but worthy. There is reason to note that church leaders across religious communities wish to welcome these constitutional changes. I think this is an important part of the reason for that. I'm surprised that some freelancers are now fighting a fierce fight to keep the Church of State. I respect it as a point of view, but I'm surprised. In the Constitution of 1814, Section 2 was written not only as a anchor, but also as a protection of the state's religious monopoly. It also contained the provision that Jews and Jesuits did not have access to the kingdom. This provision has been amended for the most time. But also at this point, the new constitutional provisions clarify an important part of freedom of belief that is such an expensive value in an open society. We have our Christian basis of values in Norway. It ‘remains’. But we give all religious communities the freedom they have under human rights, and we support them 'on the same Line'. The impulses of Christianity have over the centuries given inspiration to improve our society and our nearly 200-year-old constitution. Since 1814, the majority of the paragraphs in the Constitution have been legally amended. This is how the Basic Law has become more intertwined with Christian ethics, more in the pact with democratic principles and more in the pact with respect for human equality and freedom. The idea that changing the Constitution is almost something you have to refrain from if you love the nation of Norway falls also on your own unfairness. The Constitution has been subject to ongoing changes here in the Stortinget. Professor Eivind Smith writes in the book “Constitutional Democracy” that roughly two thirds of the paragraphs have been changed in terms of content – not only of language – at least once. The language is not as it was in 1814, it is as it was in 1903, when the entire Constitution was linguistically modernised – something the Stortinge will discuss after this matter. Constitutional principles of great importance have also been changed. This has been done by formal decisions on constitutional changes, but also by unwritten customary ones. Without such changes, the Constitution would today be discriminatory and undemocratic. The Constitution of 1814 discriminated not only against Jews and Jesuits, but also did not give women the right to vote, and it lacked religious freedom – even if it guaranteed freedom of the press and nutrition. That is why the Constitutional Act § 2 has had to be amended on several occasions. So the Constitution of 1814 has already changed on important points – and for the better, whether we judge it from a Christian and democratic point of view. Neither a foundation law nor ordinary laws are immutable nor perfect in themselves. The measure to assess whether a law should be amended cannot be found only in the law itself or in some kind of legal judgement. The law must also be ethically assessed. There is a struggle for this between different political interests. We have seen this in the debate today. Therefore, the Stortinget today is expected to reject SV's proposal to remove the Christian value anchoring from the Constitution. It's by participating we can affect development. The impulses of Christianity will continue to be a source of improvement in the society in which we live. The Christian influence has been – and is – a blessing to the Norwegian people. It is no coincidence that the respect for human dignity and for humanistic values has received so much help and support in Christian civilization. Humanism without connection to the God-given human world can be more easily diverted. Therefore, I am pleased that the renewed text of the Basic Law § 2 confirms that the basis of value “remains” our Christian and humanistic heritage. To everyone who is worried – a concern I can understand – I would say, the value basis ‘remains’. It's a formulation that looks backwards to what was, it's a formulation that determines what should be, and it's a formulation that shows ahead. The Christian and humanistic heritage “remains” the basis of value. It is in line with the Christian People's Party programme – on which we went to the elections in 2009 – and in line with our broad national meeting process on the state-church issue in 2007. I must personally say that I'm proud to have been involved in producing this church-state conciliation and getting to vote for this in the main hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e626	Many today use the term ‘historic’ and it is not random. The changes we are making today will change the state-church relationship in the political sense of power and radically historically. The next bishop and the next priest to be appointed will be appointed by the Church itself. That won't happen to the King of State Council. The Council of Churches will be history, and the Council of State responsible for church affairs can be a member of whatever religious community she or he wants. At the same time, these changes will not be noticed in Kirke-Norway in the short term. The services next Sunday will be just like before. The local priest will be the same, with his salary paid over the state budget. The municipalities will continue to be responsible for the church buildings and graveyards and, as previously, they will be reported to the Church by baptism – not born into it – as the representative Langeland wrongly said. As before, it will finance the Church in public. Until today it has been defined in the Constitution what the country's religion should be. It has also been said that those who profess the Evangelical Lutheran religion are obliged to raise their children in the same religion. It is time to replace these wordings in the Constitution. A formulation that the basis of values should remain our Christian, humanistic cultural heritage more closely reflects the values and ethical and religious standing of the vast majority of those living in Norway today. So what do we get instead? We're getting a people's church supported by the state. In it there is a great responsibility for the Norwegian Church in the years to come. The position the Church has in people's lives, in small and large communities around the whole of Norway, we expect to continue. It will be clear whether it is relevant in people's lives, in everyday life as well as at a party. In addition, democracy in the Church must be further developed. The current constitutional changes are closely linked to the changes in the church law to be dealt with later today, after the constitutional changes have been adopted. One of the points from the church settlement was: ‘Tests on different schemes’ — i.e. electoral arrangements — ‘assessed in cooperation with the bodies of the Church, before the final adoption by the Storting of a system of elections to the Church and the Council of Bishops’.» No one can be said to be satisfied with today's electoral system – neither the Church nor the political environment. There was a solid effort on the part of the Church to implement the elections, but it would have been desirable to have higher elections. There were many who did not understand the electoral system, which led to the rejection of too many votes at the last church elections. There is therefore a need to do something about the electoral system, but no one is quite clear at the moment about how a well-functioning and future electoral system should be. That is why the unanimous vote, which will later be debated here in the Grand Duchy, says that we will ask the government to come back to the Grand Duchy in the next year with proposals for a new electoral system. We ask that close contact be maintained with the Church and the settlement partners to ensure the best possible solution. In other words, a new electoral system should be in place, but in addition, I need to stress that it is very important for the Workers' Party that the members of the Church perceive and perceive the Church as an open organization where there is room and ceiling to express their opinions, and where processes take place in an open and inclusive atmosphere. The Church must accept that in such a large organization there will be differing views on many and many things. The solution to conflicts of interest is for all to experience the debates towards the decisions as real, open and democratic, and for all to be heard and taken seriously. Building a culture of transparency, where disunity emerges, but where conclusions are taken in a real democratic way – yes, here lies the task. If the Norwegian Church is to be seen as a people's church, it must be there when people need it. And people who want to get involved in the church must have ample opportunity for that commitment. Some claim that what we are about to do today will deChristianize Norway, but religion and faith are about people and their faith, not about how modern nation states organize religious communities and views of life. In a historical perspective, state, kingship and religion were closely linked. Many lands became Christians by becoming Christians and introducing religion together with the exercise of their own kingly power, and not rarely did this in a very brutal way. The empire was established in many European kingdoms in the 1600s, also in Denmark and Norway. The monarchy, or absolute monarchy, meant that the king was given all power. The idea was that the monarch was solely responsible to God. During the information period, the idea of the enlightened empire was established: As long as the monarch was informed, there would be room for reform. But after the French and American revolutions, the idea of popular sovereignty gradually developed at the expense of the empire. Our constitution, which is to be celebrated in two years' time, reflects this. But even though our Constitution established the radical at the time, namely the right to vote and the elected assembly, it also stated that the state should have a public religion. This was not the case in other countries, such as the United States. France and the United States, who had these upheavals and wrote new constitutions. Since then, public religion has been with us – as one of a few nations. Religion is about personal faith. A state is not a person and therefore cannot have a religious faith. How Christian Norway is depends on how many profess to be Christians. Therefore, it is wrong to claim that Norway is Christianised. With a state church now called the People's Church, which has almost 4 million members, there is little evidence that Norway is dechristened. In addition, we have many freedoms that profess Christianity. Moreover, there are more immigrants in different Christian congregations than there are immigrants who are Muslims. In other words, there is nothing to suggest that Norway is dechristened with this. Finally, I want to commend those who put in place the church settlement in the previous period. It was a very good piece of political work. It was a real compromise. You mastered the art of the possible. The Church is important in Norway. It has had a historic role for many, many hundreds of years. It is therefore essential that the decision now to be taken is supported as widely as possible. The church now goes into a new era. These changes will open up good opportunities for the Church to develop further. The Norwegian Church has the best conditions to succeed in becoming an inclusive and open church.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e663	Today we have had a debate in which we have heard many very good and thorough speeches. I will therefore limit myself to some comments. As many people have said, it's like we sometimes make changes to the Constitution during a growing period. It's necessary. It would be strange if those who wrote the Constitution in their time had foreseen all the challenges of today's society. Although it is not a desire to constantly change the Constitution, it is necessary to make changes. We make changes here in the hall, and it usually gets little attention. The debate we have today has received some attention over the past few weeks, but received great attention when the basis was laid, and that is good. The State-Church agreement, which forms the basis for the legislative proposals today, has had a lot of attention, has undergone solid political work, has been the subject of many debates and, after the agreement was written, has also been followed up repeatedly at the Church meeting, in debates around relevant assemblies, and also in the media. Not least, I have been in dialogue with individuals who come to me and talk about what we are doing now, experiencing the confirmation that the Church, and our relationship with the Church, means far too many. And it's good to notice that in essence, there's positive feedback. It's joy over what's happening. There may be a need for clarifying questions, but once clarifications have been made, it is safe to do so, what is happening. So the unique feature of these legislative changes is the solid political work behind them, that they are common consensus and clear goals. That is why I am safe when we adopt these changes today. I think it is safe and healthy that an almost unanimous increase is behind it, I think it is safe and good that there are formulations well anchored in the political environment, in all parties, I think it is safe and sound that our solid Christian heritage is the basis for further work, and I think it is safe and sound that the Norwegian Church, the Evangelical Lutheran Church, should be our people's church. I also appreciate – and it is natural for us politicians – debate here in the Chamber, and in different arenas, about different opinions about the things we do, and the things we have up. It has also been in the debate today, and I have great respect for that. Some will go further, some will do it a little bit differently. So it has been disappointing that a good part of the enquiries I have received over the past few weeks have had an unworthy form, which one should not be met with, and which at least does not serve the matter, not least because it indicates a great lack of knowledge about today's system. These are still allegations that are completely incorrect in relation to today's system, for example, about how. The equal treatment of religious communities is, and how, today's church rule is. It is directly wrong that Christianity is taken out. It is only to read Sections 2 and 16, we see that it is still solidly planted in the law we are now adopting. The state gets a changed relationship with the Church – that's right, and that's important. We who have worked on this are happy because we believe that it strengthens the Church as a religious community, it strengthens the religious communities in Norway, and it creates a clean relationship with the state. When it is claimed that the Church is christened, it becomes a claim from which I do not quite know where it comes from, for the Church must – fortunately – build on the same basis. Then it was nice that Marianne Aasen corrected the misunderstanding that still thrives in emails, but which was also actually mentioned from the pulpit here today, that one is born as members of the Church of State. It is baptism that is the basis for becoming a member of the Norwegian Church. So will it be in the Norwegian Church in the future, in the people's church. It is important to take seriously the individual's independent right to belief and to view life. Of that, too, we need to facilitate that the religious and life-view societies we relate to, and are members of, can operate without interference from the state. Today, we are taking important steps. I believe this is a good day for faith and vision of life in Norway. It's a good day for the Church, and I join those who congratulate the Church on the day. For me, it's a good day, because the basis of values is still clear in the Constitution – the Christian basis of values that we take with us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e689	I agree with Mr Harberg that this has so far been an interesting and wise debate, and we look at the list of speakers, it indicates that the debate will continue in the same way. Then I'm going to promise that I'll have a talk with Hallgeir H. Langeland after the debate, so that we can get it formally in place. SV also welcomes these constitutional changes. It is really high time that we put the law into reality, so that it is updated in relation to what is "fact on the ground": we want to further develop ourselves as a liberal and diverse society in terms of faith and outlook on life. Then it makes sense that we're just making the changes that we're making here today. I would also like to express all my honour and thanks to all those who have contributed to the proposals for decisions that we are going to vote on later today. I think that we, who have not been involved, hardly know how demanding this has been. In a modern society, it is the fault of the state to rank one religion over another. It's not worth a modern state. But it's just as wrong of a religion or a view of life either to use the state to sail a position of its own, or to be led and controlled by the same state. We don't want it like that anymore, they're far, far most of us. It's going to be a mistake for the state, and it's going to be a mistake for the individual religious and life-viewing community. Therefore, it is important and very essential to note that the Norwegian Church is so clearly stressing this. So, as several speakers have been about, it's mildly debated how dramatic this sense and the decisions we're going to make here today are – from triggering/accelusing doomsday, or giving us a new April 9th, as it stood in a couple of the emails that I got, to the opposite, being a little bit more of a touch on existing legislative formulations. I belong to those who believe that there is a historic decision we are making here today, which is well announced, which is very well investigated and debated – which has been discussed by many – and which can hardly surprise anyone. We're making important changes to our seas, and we're not least making changes that show a good direction that I think will eventually lead us to the SV position in the matter in a few years' time. Case No. 3 later today marks a cautious step in the right direction. Then I want to link some direct comments to Per Olaf Lundtigen's comments and arguments. One of the main approaches for Lundtigen is that if one is to succeed in the realization of the People's Church, the Church of State is needed as an instrument. I disagree, but I understand the argument, the fact that it stands out to me as very selfish on behalf of my own religion – that is, my religion deserves by definition to have a position that no other belief and outlook on life can and should have, just to realize what is the goal, my own religion. Another main approximation in Lundtägen's argument is that the state needs to choose a particular belief and outlook of life for, as well as ethically not to be confused. I just don't understand that position. Firstly, we have clear wording within the proposals that are before us today. I'm really pretty sorry that all the non-Christians are viewed almost as something ethical or moral secondary that a neighbor has to secure by continuing a church system. What surprises me most, however, with the position that Lundtägen and his opinion hold in this debate, is the lack of trust that a giver to his own church, the Norwegian Church; that it will not survive if it does not receive the special attention of the state. It's to show a little trust in one's own religion. In modern societies, issues of belief and life shall be high on the agenda. I am convinced that the Church in the future will contribute heavily and interestingly in this way. That is why I do as many others have done here today: I wish the Norwegian Church good luck and would like to congratulate you on the day. The same congratulations and congratulations I would like to address to the State, which now has exciting change work ahead of itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e712	When Trond Gishe presented the Church Agreement in Stortinget, the word ‘historic’ was used. Because that's actually historical changes we're going to take a look at today. The changes we are about to deal with today are likely to change both the Norwegian community and the Norwegian Church. It is always serious about changes in the Constitution, and it is our responsibility as representatives. Especially in these issues, we need to see what kind of consequences decisions and changes in the Constitution will have in the future – not only in two or five years, but also 20 and 30 years in advance. I fear that these changes are a first step towards a complete distinction between state and church. That is why I will be voting against the amendments that are being discussed today. There's no popular commitment to a change in today's system. It was also confirmed by the hearings of the Gender Committee, with a total of 57 pst. by local church councils and municipalities wanted the Church of Norway to be continued as a state church. That's why it's interesting to gather so to say all the representatives of all the parties behind changing a well-functioning system that has great uprising in the people, and that it's not a popular demand to change. We also see that the Church's leading bodies are in favour of a division, while the ordinary member wants to continue today's arrangement. The results of the hearings on the separation of Church and State at the beginning of the 1900s and of the majority in the Sivertsen Committee in 1975 show, on the one hand, that we find an elite, both inside and outside the Church, who, for very different reasons, are eager to separate Church and State. On the other hand, we have a majority of people who don't want this. At the conclusion of the church settlement, it was important for the Central Party that the elections should have a stronger democratic legitimacy and anchoring with the members of the church before the Stortinget finally adopts arrangements for elections to the Church Meeting and the Council of Bishops. So the question is whether the assumption is met. The evaluation concludes that there are ‘significant weaknesses in real choice after the implementation of the democratic reform’. I disagreed with the agreement on the day it was concluded, and nothing has happened that changes my view of the matter. For me, the election result was not decisive, but it both confirms and strengthens my belief that the proposal we are going to vote on today is going in the wrong direction. The Church has a great uprising among people and is there for us in different stages of life. It also gathers us collectively as a nation when we experience joy and sorrow. I think the broad upshot is about the close bond between the people and the Church today. Although not all members of the Church have a close relationship with the Church in their daily lives, the Church is nevertheless perceived as an important institution. We also know that such a large proportion of the population are members of the Church of State. Fortunately, the proposal for a membership fee in the Norwegian Church has been put to death in this round, but I will not be surprised if it is a proposal that will come back. This will be the first round of many. I don't think we need to wait for very many years until someone says that the system that the majority of people are voting for today is a poor medium-term solution. It confirms to the extent that the statements we have heard today. Then there will be suggestions for even greater distance between state and church and removal to an even greater extent of the Church's anchoring in the Constitution. In that case, it would be natural for many people to have the issue of membership fees raised again. It will be a church that is quite distant from the open and popular church we have today. To date, the state church system has taken care of many of the interests of the silent majority. The King of the Church Council of State has ensured that the great majority of the Church has been taken into consideration, and that smaller groups have not been given free reins. It helps many to feel at home in the church we have today. Then I see that someone reacts to that, among other things. I get to vote in line with my convictions, and against this agreement. I have to say, to me, it would be more serious if individual representatives were to be forced to vote against their convictions in such a serious and historic matter, a matter involving a constitutional change. I was against the agreement at the time it was concluded, and I believe it is not contrary to our party programme to vote as I do. It's actually said that the center part will be important, among other things. participation in the election in its assessment. Then it is clear that it is easier for those who initially want a distinction between church and state, to vote in favour of a compromise proposal that goes in that direction than it is for me to vote in favour of a proposal that, in my opinion, goes in the wrong direction. The articles we have heard today confirm that this is the first step. In a few years' time we will have a new debate going even further in the same direction. It will not be possible to reverse the choice that will be made today. That is exactly why this is a proposal I cannot accept. We have a living people's church in Norway, with the King as the top leader. There's something I want to keep in the future. It is not with a light heart that I choose to break with the rest of my party group in this matter. But I have to follow my convictions, and I can't vote for what I see as the first step in shutting down the Church of State. [[Applause from the gallery]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e750	The President is asking for peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e753	It is true, of course, as many representatives have already said in this good debate, that it is constitutional history and church history that are written in the Stortinge today. In my opinion, we are making a necessary change to the Constitutional paragraphs that deal with the relationship between the State and the Church. The status of the Norwegian Church is changed from being the religion of the state to becoming one of several religious communities supported by the state. Is this a weakening of the Norwegian Church? It is, of course, a question that is very relevant for Stortingen to ask. I notice the commitment in the debate that someone means it. For my part, I would say – and I would also allow myself to say it on behalf of the Norwegian Labour Party – that if it had been the case that it had been a weakening of the Norwegian Church to make this constitutional change, we would not have done so. On the contrary, we do it because we believe that this is a strengthening of the Norwegian Church, and it takes on board something that is absolutely necessary for us in a modern state today, namely the terms 'democracy' and'religion freedom'. The representative of the Højbrätten held a very thought-provoking post. He probably has a very strong commitment to himself and is very inside of his doing. His entire posts bore the mark of it. And he highlighted something that I mean the whole Norwegian community – but let me say in particular what we can call Christian Norway – should notice, that this Constitution now strengthens the entire free-church movement in Norway. It's very important for those who are committed to Norway being a Christian society. For the People's Church, it's also going to be in addition to this, and it's hard to understand how to comment on the counter-arguments. But that what we say – that it is said as if it were to be established as a truth – that through the constitutional changes we are probably making in an hour or two, we would mean some form of dechristening, or that the Norwegian Church would almost be dissolved, is unfounded and wrong. I can't say it stronger, I don't know what other words I was going to use, but at least that's what I mean. However, what we need to realize, and I think we should all realise – both those who are paving the way for the previous article, and for all of us – is that this is about the development of Norway as a democratic society. That's what the most profoundly and in many ways is about, precisely because we can keep the value paragraph, while continuing a church system that takes care of many of the factors that today's church system has established. This is important, because not all churches are full on Sunday. But it's not about that. It's about the importance of the Norwegian Church to all of us in everyday life, all of the days, all the weeks and all the years. And it's about the traditions we apply when we go to church, when important traditions are to be cared for in our families. We note – as others have also said, and as the rapporteur said in a very good way first in the debate – the importance of the Church as a cultural bearer when we are hit by disasters and major difficulties. It is no coincidence that the Church is then able to place itself in an image that gets great popular support. And from my point of view, I want to take the opportunity – although it has nothing directly to do with the matter, but nevertheless it has quite a lot to do with it – to express a direct thanks to the Church for their commitment to the great national tragedy of July 22. It's a people's church with a large F we're adopting today, insofar as it's possible to adopt a people's church. I have followed this debate from another political point of view, namely when I was a party secretary in the Norwegian Labour Party. And I see that many of the Church's representatives are present here at the lodge. I have nodded and greeted many of them because today we are putting a finishing line for a long dialogue that we have had, because this dialogue helped to lay the groundwork both for a very good understanding and also the basis for the position that the Workers' Party has taken at the end of the day, which is the background for us to join the Church Agreement, and for us to vote as we vote today – of course for the Committee's proposals and for constitutional changes. I'm just using one sentence or two on what's very important, the one that comes later today about the further handling of democracy reform in particular. And it's very important – and it's almost been a prerequisite for implementing the constitutional changes – that we get a process ahead of democratisation of the Church. Through this article, I am asking the Church's representatives and the Church as such to note the expressed willingness of the Stortinge to really ensure that the process of democratization becomes the good legitimacy of the further activities of the Church. I think that is one of the important prerequisites for the decision that is being taken here today in the Grand Duchy to be an effective and good decision, and for the people of the next generation to end up in a good way about the activities of the Church. So also a brief comment from my side on these sharp and clear voices that we have all heard during the later weeks – also outside the Storting today. So this is called some form of dechristening. The comments here have already come. There's reason to say, in the extension of what I've already said, that's a very unreasonable consideration. I think that's the best expression -- that's an unreasonable consideration, because the Basic Law's value paragraph is changing to, as it's been said: “The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage.” In addition, it is stated: ‘This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’ It would surprise me very much if these words were to be called unchristian. With all due respect, I would say to all those who believe these things – then I am not talking about those who are wondering or questioning, but who mean these things: Of course, they have the right to believe it – they have the right to express themselves in every way, they have the right to send the e-mails and messages to us as they wish, that is quite in order – but they should really concentrate on having faith in what they believe. That is what the Stortinge opens for today – that they should have the right to believe what they themselves believe in. It is the important message for everyone involved. So a comment on Lundtigen's articles. Lundtigen says something that I very disagree with. He says that through the decision that the great majority of the Great One is supposed to take, we will remove religion from public space. That's a sentence I don't understand the content of. It's not like we're doing through what we're doing today, removing religion from the public conversation. It's almost the opposite – precisely because the Church is given the influence it gives, because it gets a independence that is greater than it has had. His colleague from the South Dream Team, who had the floor before me, said exactly the opposite. That the state should have an involvement in the Church, as it was, was better for the big public conversation – I don't understand that. I don't understand those arguments, because I don't think they carry them. It is precisely the democratization of the Church that can give Church and Christian exercise a greater democratic place in Norwegian society. I don't understand what Lundteg means. Perhaps he will explain it later in the debate. Anyway, I want to highlight a disagreement with him in this. The Labour Party acknowledges that belief and vision of life play an important role in Norwegian society, both for individuals and for the community. Religion should be and is a private matter in that way that you are free to believe what you want. At the same time, religion and faith are a matter for the community, because we are whole people, and we do not put our beliefs back at home. The state should not itself have a religion, but the state should support what the inhabitants think is important. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have an active supporting religious policy that contributes to the functioning of the different religious and life-view societies, thus contributing to the community. All of this is also the will and active desire of the Norwegian Church. We are adopting a system that is a compromise between many opinions and wills, as the Council of State has said, with its strengths and weaknesses, as she has also said. But the most fundamental thing is to adopt the new wordings of Section 2, as the Church itself will – as the Church itself will – and as a practically total magnification will now do. What is it? It is a strength for our democracy and a strength for the position of the Church. But nothing in today's decision is what is crucial to the Church's position. It's whether the Church's representatives are able to be relevant to the population and represent their faith and humanism in such a way that it expresses trust. My wish is that all Christians, and in particular our people's church, should be involved in fighting intolerance and injustice, and for justice and solidarity. Respect for other religions and the genuine freedom of belief are, as I see it, the most important task and prerequisites for the legitimacy of the Church in the Norwegian population in the coming generations. The Labour Party is pleased with the compromise we are putting into effect today in the decision of the Stortinget. We are proud to continue a legacy of the Christian and humanistic values of our country is built on. And we know ourselves happy and safe when in such important matters we are able to gather such a large political breadth. Today, we lay the foundation for a future based on the best in our Norwegian humanist traditions. In the end, if the Storting had not adopted the proposed constitutional changes today, I find that the Church would enter a difficult time. We don't want to. Responsibilities, withdrawal and a rigid organisation could have been the result. It would be very regrettable and unfortunate for the Church and for the Norwegian community. For this reason too, it is important that the Storting adopt the proposed constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e808	This is a historic, important and joyful day. The power struggle over who will rule has been going on for a long time in our nation – and perhaps it started already when Jesus overturned the table of money changers at the Temple Square more than 2,000 years ago. It was not primarily because he was against shopping, but it was because money gives power, and power determines who should be master of the Lord's house. That was the cause of one of the few painful moments we saw in Jesus' life. On 10 April 2008, the parties at Stortinget made a major step towards the liberation of the Norwegian Church as a religious community. They will now have to choose their own spiritual leaders. There has sometimes been overrun by the state of the Church as a religious community. After intense negotiations here on the house, the seven parties on the Stortinget came to a final solution. I want to go through some of the points in the agreement – seen with our eyes. I also think it is gratifying that there is a great deal of consistency between the position of the Christian People's Party and what has been achieved. The greatest and most important thing we do is to ensure that the Norwegian Church becomes a religious community and is given the appointment of its own spiritual leaders. The Christian People's Party has always had the position that freedom of belief and life, together with freedom of expression, are fundamental in a democratic society. This means that the state should not interfere with the beliefs and beliefs of individuals. It also implies that the internal affairs of different religious communities must be respected by the State. The State must not interfere with the inner life, function and organization of religious communities. Learning and human resources issues — including the appointment of bishops and prosthetics — should not be determined politically but by religious communities alone. This must also apply to the Norwegian Church, and the Norwegian Church must be respected as an independent religious community. Therefore, we are pleased that the agreement says that the parties to the agreement agree that a process is being initiated, where the joint objective of the parties is that the appointment of bishops and prosthetics be transferred from the church council to church bodies, such as the Church Meeting or the Council of Bishops. This is done by removing the word «spiritual» in the Basic Law § 21 and 22. The agreement stipulated that a democratic reform should be carried out in cooperation with the Norwegian Church, as the Norwegian Church itself has called for, by 2011. The agreement established the elements to be implemented. There was increased use of direct elections, church elections along with public elections, and real choices. This was thus a reform to be assessed on the basis of structure, not as a percentage of turnout. It is gratifying that the Church – with little time and relatively little resources – has already managed to implement two choices that essentially satisfy the democratic points of the agreement. Then to Section 2. The Christian People's Party's position was that we cannot participate in a change of § 2 as a result of the state-church reconciliation, without it representing the Christian ethics and cultural heritage as an important historical heritage, and as a common value in our Norwegian society. Christianity has shaped our human vision, our values, our laws, our history and our culture, and this still has to be an important part of the core wall of Norwegian society. A new arrangement of the relationship between the Church and the State must mean that these values are retained in the Constitution. Therefore, I am pleased that Section 2 is now being changed to: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’ We have managed to secure a new value paragraph that clearly refers to the Christian and humanistic values. In addition, ‘remains’ underlines that it is what has happened that will continue to be. Then §§ 1 and 2 – after the vote today – hopefully will look like this: A. On the State Form, § 1: «The Kingdom of Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and inalienable kingdom. Its form of government is restricted and hereditary monarchy.» And § 2: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’ The position of the Christian People's Party has been – and the title of our national opinion was – that we want an ongoing people's church enshrined in the Constitution. But I very much agree with Martin Kolberg's words here, that this is not a promise we can make sure that this is a people's church. It is up to the Norwegian Church and its members to ensure that it ‘remains’. We can only free a religious community from state domination. It is the Church itself that must do its job to preserve its relationship with the Norwegian people. After all, a natural consequence of the state-church agreement is the abolition of the church council and the church system. We'll come back a little bit when we're going to discuss the church law later today. But let me already say that even if you remove the requirement for church membership, it may be wise that the person who is to have the formal responsibility for a constitutional church still has a membership in and knowledge of the Norwegian Church. Then I will come back later to why we support that it should not be a requirement for membership. The King’s situation has also been in the discussion – The King’s obligation of confession. It changes, so that the King's role in enforcing and protecting the Church is removed. This is a necessary consequence of the abolition of the Church Council of State, but the King, in the new proposal, will continue to profess the Evangelical Lutheran religion. It was also important in the conciliation to talk something about the financial instruments. There has been an important part of all the investigations that have taken place before the conciliation was concluded. The Christian People's Party has always believed that the public must continue to finance the Norwegian Church and at the same time grant grants to other religious and life-based communities according to their membership, as well as land grants to church buildings. The question of any future membership quota has been said by the Christian People's Party not to be a political issue. The agreement stipulated that the current financing mechanism for the Norwegian Church should be continued, including the financing mechanism involving other religious and life- views. According to the agreement, this also means that no membership fee should be imposed in the Norwegian Church. Let me also comment on some of what the Central Party has said here in the Chamber, namely the Central Party's attempt to ride two horses – or we'll say two cows, since we've heard cubes as background music for this debate today. Everyone defends the right to stand up for their own convictions, but the question is whether one can first sit and negotiate and influence the outcome in its direction, because then – in retrospect – to say that one does not want to vote for it? I think that's some of the background for some of these reactions, not if you're going to be allowed to vote for your own conviction. In my view, the Centre Party has now played out of the role they could have had, by continuing to influence with its positions in the future discussion in this matter. You can't both sit and negotiate and pull things in their direction, and then reserve yourself afterwards to vote for the whole. That's what some of us have tried to highlight. Then to the quota. The safest way to avoid quota in the Norwegian Church is to ensure that there is a generous funding of religious and life-view societies, including the Norwegian Church. Then it is strange to hear representatives from the Central Party, who have been sitting in this government and who have failed in the financing of e.g. The reform of faith training, and which has not financed democratic projects in sufficient amount to enable them to function, are those who are anxious. Yes, yes, perhaps you know yourself best and thus warn about the future. I guess I'm also going to have to pay a visit to removing religion from the public space, for which Lundtigen was anxious. It's probably an argument that would have been better without Ola Borten Moes being punished last week by a church that just participated in the public space, and that was punished by the Vice-Central Party's Vice-Chair because they interfered with what they thought was the political spheres. I think we need a discussion about religious and life-viewing societies and participation in public space. I look forward to the investigation that is now taking place through the Steelset Committee, and I think we're going to get back to these discussions. Many people are concerned about what we're going to do today. I have said that it is a concern that I welcome. It's important that people care about how our society evolves. Many people have been concerned that this can reduce the position of Christianity here in our society. I have not been upset about getting feedback from the concerned voices, but I have questioned the motives of some of the leaders who have deliberately been misinformed about what is actually going on, and what is actually going to be adopted. I also put a question mark on the motive, because this did not come at the conclusion of the state–church agreement, which was very well known and which was advertised far and wide in 2008, but came now after Christmas in 2012. Then it must be allowed to ask about the motive, and whether it was motivated by a desire to collect people into a political or religious context for itself. The Norwegian Church has shown us who have participated in the Church Meeting, that they have a broad, democratic debate. They have shown that through faith training they take responsibility for educating their children and young people. They are impatient to have this fully financed and take responsibility. We have a church that meets its people in joy and sorrow, and that is a place of room for faith and social exposure. What will happen then is that when people have a commitment to how they want the Norwegian Church to be, they can no longer come to the Stortinget and to the politicians to seek to resonate with their commitment. This commitment must now go to the Norwegian Church and participate in the debates and be in the development of the Church as they want it to be. Finally, I would like to thank the negotiators who were present at the time, when the decision was taken on 10 April, and when the debate took place in Stortinget on 13 June: representatives Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, Anders Anundsen, Odd Einar Dørum, Inger S. Enger, Rolf Rekovam, State Council Trond Giske – and signed – who managed to arrive at something we believe in through night and day, through compromise and tough negotiations. It is a pleasure to see the Storting joining the proposed changes that we made in 2008. This is a historic, and a joyful, day. This is going to be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e874	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a very good review of the Committee's position, an attitude that I fully support. Changing the Constitution is a big and important thing. Today, when we are going to make as many changes to the law, the matter becomes even more important – if possible. The way in which Storting deals with such changes is therefore also essential. The decisions we're making are not happening overnight. It is not that the changes go unnoticed either. The background for me to start my article in this debate in this way is quite simple because, like very many other representatives here in the Chamber, I have received letters and, not least, emails trying to create the impression that today's treatment is not democratic enough. I was on the Church, Education and Research Committee at the Stortinget last period. There was a great and important debate between state and church. This debate did not last one day, not one week, not one month, not one year – no, it lasted several years. The debate resulted, for my part, in the fact that I had to travel to several places in the country and participate in debates, in public meetings, in school debates, etc. It resulted in large and important investigations, both in the ministry and in the Church, and meetings were very often referred to in newspapers and other media. Not least, the debate resulted in the agreement of all the political parties on the Stortinget on a settlement. During the discussions that were held in the preparation of the conciliation, there were of course also many internal discussions in the various political parties, so that one was sure to have the party in his back when one came to an agreement with the other parties. The agreement takes on board the necessary changes in the Constitution, changes that we are dealing with today. As I participated to a great extent in the debate in the previous period, and at the same time opting for a new period, it was a good opportunity to refuse or to support my candidacy in the last elections. That's how democracy works. So we're not changing the Constitution in one parliamentary term. Proposals for amendments are promoted for one period and adopted in another. In the nature of a settlement, it is a compromise, that most of the conciliators both give and take. By showing the will to find solutions instead of putting things at the head, where it is clearly a majority and a minority – or a winner and a loser – this creates a fantastic foundation. The foundation shall operate as such. What we have agreed on, the compromise that has been created, the foundation that now lies here, supports the important principle that the state should be an organizer so that each of us, as citizens of this country, can choose to practice religion/sight of life. The right to freedom of religion is fundamental and inviolable to the Workers' Party. At the same time, we recognise the place the Norwegian Church has had, and will have, in Norwegian society – as a traditional, cultural, value and believer. Proposals to amend the paragraphs governing relations between the State and the Norwegian Church will provide these important elements in a very good way. Not least, it is important that there is a strong political consensus on these changes. The relationship between state and church as it is now formulated in the Constitution, confirms that we live in a multi-religious society, and where we want to make visible that we cannot discriminate against any religious and life-view society. The change we're making is also supported by the Church itself. I welcome the completion of a long process, in which it is concluded that the state is not going to engage in religious activity, but is going to have a value anchor. I want a people's church that is safe and democratic and with broader anchoring and better democracy than before. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e903	The Constitutional Assembly at Eidsvoll design the Constitution at a time when it was quite natural that the different nations clearly anchor their constitution on a certain basis of trust. The background for this was, of course, the strong ties between religion and politics, which shaped all the countries of Europe at this time. Norwegian society has fundamentally changed since then. Religion is still an important part of a human life, but in a multireligious society like the Norwegian, the Evangelical Lutheran threat must have a completely different place in central government than it had in 1814. The constitutional changes that are being addressed here today are changes to the constitution of the state of Norway and the Norwegian Church. The Norwegian State shall no longer be associated with the Evangelical Lutheran religion. At the same time, it is important to take care of the fundamental values and traditions that shape and develop our country over a thousand years. The basis of value – and that is the important point here – will still be our Christian and humanistic heritage. Religion, as everyone knows, is a powerful force. It can be a resource to build communities and values at a time of change. It is therefore important that society facilitates an active supporting religious policy that produces important values, such as tolerance and respect between people with different life views. The changes presented have a major impact on the constitutional basis of the Norwegian Church. The principle of freedom of thought and life will lead to limitations in the regulation of the Church's internal life by the Storting. These changes represent a new basis for further development of the Norwegian Church as a threat society. State's task in the future is to support Church under the same conditions as other belief and life-view societies. In order to ensure this, a gradual further development of the legal basis for the Norwegian Church is essential. A natural first step could be to carry out an evaluation of church law from 1996. Church, with its close to four million members, is an important provider of value in our society. I believe that changes strengthen Churcha's role in society. In meeting different cultures and religions, knowledge of one's own tradition and identity is the best starting point for meeting others with respect and tolerance. Church is an important social institution for very many people. It is an important political objective of the Labour Party that Church is present in all communities and available when needed. We can rejoice that Churcha today provides services of high quality, both in joy and in sorrow. A nationwide and qualitatively good performance service is very central here. For the Labour Party, it is important that the changes in Grundlova take care of the Norwegian Church's goal of being an open, inclusive and democratic people's church. But in order to achieve this goal, I, from Stortinget, will, on an important day for the development of the Norwegian Church, make it clear and clear: the Norwegian Church still has a way to go when it comes to internal democracy in what is to be an open and democratic people's church. I am not now saying that democracy is unacceptable today. It is acceptable in relation to the criteria, as they are formulated in the church agreement. But I say it from the understanding that building a culture of democracy and building democratic processes is necessarily taking some time. In this way, we hope – or we may believe – that the representative Skei Grande will be heard in prayer, given that democracy will be strengthened when no Church is given the necessary freedom. In order to clarify the challenges and point to important democratic parameters, I would like to mention the choice of choice, the choice of choice, the ability of the voters to influence the nomination processes, the fact that real choices will be made and, of course, the design of easily understandable voice methods there is agreement on. You need to have it to avoid a high number of discarded voice sets, as we have seen in the last video. There are individuals who today think that these fundamental laws will abolish Christianity in the Kingdom of Norway and introduce paganism – whatever it may be – in both the village and the city. No, it is a strong undertone of the strength and power of the Norwegian People's Church. There is also a lack of trust in the Norwegian Church. One does not liquidate the collective, inclusive people's church; these constitutional changes strengthen the open, inclusive people's church, to which everyone has a close and good relationship. I am sure that the constitutional changes – which most people support here today – will strengthen the Church, they will strengthen the relationship between the people and the Church, and they will definitely strengthen the development of Norway as a democratic society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e929	I was the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee in the previous period when this agreement was concocted. It was a great pleasure both to participate in those negotiations and to participate in discussions on very many other religious issues right in the last big period. Among other things, we had: The question of new school and kindergarten subjects, we also had questions about the CRL subject, or now the RLE subject, up – at all, there was a good and broad dialogue on religious issues during that period. Our point in both the state-church agreement and the purpose-paragraph discussion, was to secure our anchoring, to know who we are in order to be open to others, it was to give a picture of our society today, but it was also pointing forward. It's a historic day, when we untie the ties between the state and the church, but we bond more closely between the church and the people. It is also nice to see many from the negotiating delegation, or large parts of the negotiating delegation from then on in place in the hall or in the diplomat lodge today, and that also others who played an important role, such as. The Council of Churches is also present today. When we negotiated the case, and when the decision was taken in 2008, there was great enthusiasm around it. I think all the parties felt that they got a lot of feedback from many teams about the importance of what we had adopted. We are now making the final decision related to a reform that in many ways recalls some of the Swedish implementation from the year 2000. We're making changes that are clear in line with what the Gehenna Committee presented in its time. So you go a historic step towards abolishing the state church system, at the same time you want a strengthened people's church. To the right, it was then, as now, important that we had a broad political consensus in the Stortinget. All the games went, all the games went. I would therefore like to stress very strongly what Dagrun Eriksen said in his main post, namely that in such a situation, where everyone gives something and everyone takes something, it is so important that that consensus also remains when a new big deal is being brought together. That was the foundation of what we agreed on, and I can't exactly say that I think it's positive that some of the representatives of the Center Party now choose to go away from that consensus and the reconciliation we're all behind. The question of the relationship between state and church, or perhaps in particular the relationship with the Church, means a lot too many. I can't imagine that we'll ever have a society where the importance of religion is not present. Rather, on the contrary, we see that both in Norwegian society and in many other societies around the world, religion plays an increasingly important role. For the Right, this process, both now and before, has had two sides. It's not just about what church order we're going to have, but also what kind of state we're going to have. Faith is a very personal matter. That is why a state religion is quite unnatural. At the same time, we are of the opinion that it is quite natural that the Norwegian Church has a special position, given it the legacy, the Christian humanist heritage and the tradition of Norway, and the place Kirka has always had and will always have in society. For the Right, a very important and absolutely decisive point was also an overall point in the agreement we agreed. So there had to be a relationship between what we did in relation to the Basic Law § 2 and the other provisions of the Basic Law. To the right it was e.g. It is totally inappropriate to imagine a situation in which we abolished the Constitution § 2 but retained the other paragraphs of the Constitution of the Royal Church Government. In other words, it was totally irrelevant for us to remove the paragraph on state religion, but still retain a state-run church. It was a logical flaw we didn't think it was possible to live with. We are therefore very pleased with the agreement. There has been a clear feedback from the other parties in the hall here today, that you are very satisfied with the agreement and the agreement we got. There was also a very central point for us in the negotiations that what we agreed to change was to end up saying that Kirka sail would have to choose its leaders. For us, it was important to respect the Church as a religious community. That means that the Church must, of course, have great seasmanship in its internal administration – especially in matters of learning and the appointment of its own leaders. It is unnatural for a religious society to be governed by the Constitution and by the state, as today. A strong state government of the Church as a religious community puts in many ways a notion that the state can create a better Christianity than the Church can. It's a show we from the Right's side deeply disagree with. Nevertheless, there has been a development over time in the Church. In particular, as regards the appointment of bishops, the candidates appointed in the church processes have also been the ones elected at the end. The right has always thought that a strong government of the Church is holding the Church back. The process of democratisation and liberalisation in the Church has never really progressed faster than they have in recent years. There is also an increased maritime governance in the Church through the three-level model, where one has congregational councils, episcopal councils and church meetings. I think that the developments we're going to see in the years to come after the decisions we make today are a church that takes on even more of its responsibilities and role as a church of the people. We're going to see congregations that are more liberal than today, and we're going to see congregations that are more conservative than today. In that case, it is a rash of the influence of the people of Kirka. That's the positive with the changes we're now making. In everyday, in practice, we common churchgoers will notice very little difference. It's Kirka's members who are Kirka, who make up the Church. That's the way we exercise our faith, express our doubts, or are gathered together in sorrow and joy, forming the framework of the Church. It's the meeting between the Church and the people, that the Church is able to give relevant answers to the questions we're facing, which determine the place religion has in our society. It is not that the Bible is a legal document to be enforced by the Constitution. On the contrary, it is our experience of faith, of doubt, of joy and sorrow that determines whether the Church is able to be the frame of our life that gives us a meaning. That's what determines the position Christianity has in this case, or religion in general, in our lives. There have been some feedback in the past few days. I am also, like many here in the Chamber, amazed that the feedback has not come before – when we really negotiated what was the basis for this. But I'm recording that they're coming now, and I have to say in general that I think it's hard in those feedbacks to recognize the next-loving Christianity I know or the open people's church I'm part of. I believe and am absolutely convinced that the changes we are making today are going to work for the best of the people's churches and for the best of us that are part of it. As one who was baptized at his own desire as a teenager, I can sign that the important thing for me has been the openness and closeness and the fact that the Church has been able to answer relevant questions in my life and in my time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e963	On 21 May 2012 is a historic day, which we hope – and I am convinced – will look back with pride. I'm at least very happy to be here today and participate in the debate, and I'm also going to be happy this afternoon when I'm going to vote on this matter. It's been said very much reasonable by many speakers, so I'll try to be brief. One of those who, not surprisingly, said something reasonable, was the committee leader, Anders Anundsen, when he said that what actually happens to what we are doing today, is that the ties between church and state are weakened, while the ties between church and people are strengthened. It's a statement I'm sharing completely. As a liberal, I believe that faith is a matter between a citizen, the religion of which the citizen chooses to be a member, and the gods of which the citizen and the religious community choose to adhere. I've lived that after the seven years I've been here. Today I'm going to do two things I've never done before. To this extent, I must confess my faith from this pulpit, and I must quote from the Bible. Then I have to start with the last one. Many of us — probably all of us — have received relatively many Bible quotations by e-mail. I can't see that the Gospel of Matthew has been frequently quoted, but I want to quote from there, from chapter 22. When Jesus is challenged to pay taxes, he says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t “Then give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, and to God what belongs to God.” It's a Bible quotation I like, and I think it fits well into today's debate. I do not know whether quoting from the Bible is entirely in line with the rules of procedure in Stortinget, but it is now done. I don't agree when the representative Skei Grande says we're moving power down to the Church, because that's not true. We're moving power out to the members of the Church. I think that's a more precise concept, which I'm very familiar with voting for. Then it was the creed. I have been a member of the Church since I was baptized as a child, and have been active in this church for many years. I am pleased and proud that today I am involved and lay the foundation for the belief society of which I am a proud member, to have the same rights that all other religious communities in this society take for granted, namely the right to rule themselves. That's all. This is a historic day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e990	The last article was an example of the fact that constitutional debates can lead to much positive results in this room! We have had a long debate. I'm not going to bother summing it up. We've also seen some dividing lines, for example. that the Socialist Left Party has maintained its proposal to take out any reference to our Christian heritage in the Basic Law Section 2, but fortunately they are at last involved and support the state-church reconciliation. Then we've also heard a couple of dissidents – to use that expression, since I belong to them, but not in this context – in the Central Party that actually wants, and that's what it says, that politicians' right to override the Church's organs in the bishop's appointments is to stand by. The church reform and the related constitutional changes that we are adopting today also bring together broad support from the leaders of the Norwegian Church. It is not least – and we have to – at the request of the Norwegian Church itself that it now becomes more independent. Both bishops and the democratically elected Church Council welcome the reform. They see it as natural in their work – to preach and to be faithful to the gospel, yes, to be a vibrant Evangelical Lutheran church with broad popular appeal. We've met a lot of reactions. I have received many text messages, e-mails and telephones from many who are concerned about the changes that are going to happen today. We've also had a lot of people outside of Stortinget, and I'm also assuming a part of the gallery right now. Of course, it is perfectly legitimate to express concern about what is to happen now. But let me remind you this: when you claim to change Section 2, which is at the heart of this, it is contrary to the provisions of the Basic Law itself, as stated in Section 112, that something that is contrary to the spirit and principles of this law cannot be adopted. That's what has given reason to accuse some people here of being coupmakers. Then I would like to remind you that if it were such that Section 2 would be immutable as it stood in 1814, it would actually have been as follows today: “Jews are still excluded from access to the Kingdom.” That was the text of the original section 2, and would thus have to stand today if Section 2 was unchangeable. I have hurt to think that those who claim that Section 2 is immutable can actually join in what stood at the time. It therefore rests, I think, also a responsibility on those who today say that what is adopted is illegal. There are strong accusations, and strong accusations should demand a solid, factual justification. We haven't seen it yet. Basically, this type of argument against the constitutional changes implies a subordination of the importance of living Norwegian Christian life around all the local communities of the country and the lasting value of Christian culture for the nation and our people. From a long cultural history perspective, it is easy to see that Christianity has been and is a blessing to our people. It is passed on by far more than a constitutional provision that the basis of value remains our Christian faith. It is carried on, above all, through the dissemination of God’s Word, the dissemination of Christian values and traditions, even through vital Christian congregations and congregations throughout the whole country. Reducing the power of the Gospel to depend on secular paragraphs seems to me to be a totally alien Christian understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1012	I have also received many e-mails on today's Constitutional Proposals in the last few days – much more on this matter than on farming – and I am, without having been systematically involved, that many of those who have sent e-mails and who ask us not to make today's changes, sail is not a member of the Church of the State, but of other religious communities. One wrote that the road now becomes open so that Jens Stoltenberg can introduce state communism in Norway. As I know that guy quite well, I am quite sure that I can reassure both those who have sent e-mails, and others. Another – I think I'll call him a well-known religious activist – wrote that if I vote for the constitutional changes, on the day of the judgment, I will end up in a certain place. If so, we can continue the discussion there, because I'm pretty sure I'm going to the same place as the one who wrote the e-mail. But luckily, only one person is judging these questions, and he's not here today. Norway shall not be dechristified. I rather feel that there is a great deal of excitement about the Church today. To take a personal experience: When our youngest daughter was to be baptized last year, there was such a long waiting list for baptism in our church that I had to thank the neighbouring church – in that parish it only lives old people, about, and there are far fewer births. That's a good sign that a lot of people are looking for Kirka. Moreover, whether Norway is a Christian or not, there is no Stortinget or the State can decide. There's something each one has to do with their sails. I feel a strong commitment to the Norwegian Church and today's church system. We must take this seriously, and we must continue to do so in the new system. Many say it's a historic day today, yes, it is. Changing the Basic Law is always historic. In addition, it happens on the birthday of Jakob Jervell himself. But it was also historical, what happened in 2008, with the church agreement, because that's when we actually agreed on what we're going to do now. I believe it is a matter of course that what we said on the part of all parties in 2008, we are also on today. But I have some critical comments, and that is the process of democratization in the Church. I believe that it should get far beyond what the case is. Several participate in elections to church organs, yes, but it's clear that from a starting point of almost zero there shouldn't be so many increases until the numbers in percent sound dramatic. So we have to continue the democratization work in the Church. Some here have talked about when the first steps towards holding elections in church organs along with other elections were taken. I remember those debates. There was, in fact, great resistance in parts of the Church to doing so. Such things, as we carry with us, make me a little worried about the further process we're going to have. I also attended the last time, as I have done so many times before, in the election of the council and the council of bishops. For more than 20 years, I have participated in nominations and elections to local government, county councils and big business, and I have participated in election elections in other countries as an election observer. But I didn't understand the rules for choosing a bishop's council, and since I didn't have any special preferences, I delivered the list as it was. In retrospect, I have been told that the list was rejected, because changes had to be made to the list. It must be the only electoral system in the world where the list is rejected if no changes are made. Then I ask the question, how is it possible to do something like this? In my most conspiratory moments, I've actually been thinking that it's because many in the Church don't want more democracy and participation. But I don't think that's the way it is. At least I hope it's not like that. This is what the Church must take seriously – in the deepest seriousness. Should people participate more in the Church, it must be practical to participate more. The test piece of the new church system is given to us by the upcoming additions of prosthetics and bishops. In my opinion, it is very important when the Councils of Bishops are going to add pros and the Council of Churches adds bishops, that we focus on: do we get a wider or narrower church? What kind of bishops do we get now? Will we be able to have bishops like Berggrave, Schjelderup, Køhn and Stålsett – otherwise, I will add – bishops who have stood far from all those who have sent us angry emails lately. But then I also thought: Maybe not the Church today is as broad as we want to make it? Because if I'm not mistaken, we're actually in the situation that all of today's bishops are educated at the Faculty of Society and no one at the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oslo. Otherwise, the theological faculty is a faculty that goes all the way back to when we got our university in 1811 – the University of Royal Frederiks. It is quite thoughtful that we have this biased distribution with today’s church system. So finally, I have expressed some critical views on how far – or rather briefly – the process of democratisation in the Church has come. Unlike the Center Party, I believe there is no reason to break the 2008 church settlement. It is rather an inspiration to further work to make the Church more democratic. The Church must take this most seriously. It's only people's uprising about the Church that shows if we're going to get a people's church, or not. I am going to vote for the constitutional changes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1033	The debate about the historical changes we are about to make today seems to me – both outside and in this room – to have been about a few key things. One is the fear that the state — or rather society — will go wild. I don't think there's any reason for that. The State's anchoring in a particular Norwegian church community is replaced by a value paragraph, which many have pointed out: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’ In many countries where there are upheavals, we fear that one will have a religiously based state over a secular state. A state cannot have a belief, it is people who have faith. The role of the state is to protect the freedom of belief and religious practice of its inhabitants. But a state must have a value base, and so we are ensuring that today through a new section 2. Then there are also some who express great concern for the Church. I do not think that is the basis either. I believe there is greater cause for concern for a church that is not master of its own church – a church that must have a state to rely on to fulfill its mission. The Norwegian Church remains a church that will stand in a special position among Norwegian churches and religious communities. Its employees shall continue to be civil servants, with the pecuniary advantages it entails. But being a civil servant must also involve certain obligations, obligations that do not go to the church in which they work, but to the state for which they are civil servants. I think that is really a weakness of the conciliation. In return, the Church receives a commission from this great thing, which is still a people's church. For further information in the section on civil servants, it is stated that it is to be ‘supported as such by the State’. So the state still wants to keep an eye on the Church, so to speak. But it's probably going well, both with the state and with the Church. Even I am a Methodist and belong to a church that has no state to keep an eye on. It has, however, been successful. It has not evolved in that direction — that the Norwegian Church should become too snowy, and that the door into it should become too narrow and too low. The Methodist Church is still an open and socially liberal church. I believe that everyone who fears a development that is heading towards the Norwegian Church becoming too snowy – to use that expression – must engage in the development of this church, and especially in forums other than this. On paper is the Norwegian Church until now the state church. It's basically just on paper, because in reality the Church has been the members' church. It is only the members of the church who can care for the Church as the open, inclusive church we all want, and in which people feel at home. Lundtigen said we should have a church that also has room for them with little faith and great doubt. I want to turn it around and say: I have great faith and little doubt that this is going to go really well, both with the state, with society and with the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1060	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1074	Language renewal of the Constitution is a long-awaited reform. That is why today is important when this is dealt with here in Stortinget. I will first commend the initiative, and the work that Carl I. Hagen and Finn-Erik Vinje have taken with them the document on linguistic renewal of the Constitution. The proposal is not adopted now, but in the work they have done, there is a good basis for decisions at the next major stage. It is an overall committee which shares the views of these proposers that the 1903 Constitutional Danish-Norwegian language theme is difficult to read today. The Constitution should be modernised in a purely linguistic manner in order to become an even more living document in the Norwegian People's Republic. An overall committee points out that the Norwegian Constitution is the world's second oldest institution in continuous use. It has been changed many times since 1814, but has nevertheless been a stabilising force in Norwegian history. A continuous linguistic upgrade to the Constitution has taken place once before, and the Committee stresses that this type of modernisation is not contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. For periods of time, linguistic changes have been a purely administrative matter, while the Storting has recently treated any linguistic change as a constitutional change case, according to the Constitution § 112. The members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Government Parties believe that the Constitution must be available in both of the two official forms of objectives in Norway — bookkeeping and neo-Norwegian. For this reason alone – I stress alone – these members therefore reject the proposal from Hagen and Vinje. It is unreasonable that the Constitution exists only on one of the official objectives in Norway. It is not a serious argument that the Basic Law, with versions of both target forms, could lead to legal interpretation disputes. A number of countries have formulated the Constitution in different languages. Canada, Finland and Switzerland are examples of multilingual countries in which the constitution is available in a maritime and legally unproblematic manner in the different official languages of the countries — languages with significantly greater differences than between book and newcomer languages. The members of the Government Parties ask the Presidency to facilitate the drafting of the Constitution in a timely writing language on both target forms – one version of book goals and one version in neo-Norwegian. The members of the Government Parties argue that the Storting considers the two versions as equivalent in all respects, that the linguistic modernisation does not change the realities of the Basic Law, and that the two new versions should relate to the exact same constitutional interpretation tradition. The members of the Government Parties assume that both the necessary legal and philological competences are used and that the up-to-date versions are promoted as constitutional proposals before the deadline for the promotion of such proposals expires on 28 September this year. In this way, the constitutional changes can be addressed early in the forthcoming enlargement period, so that the linguistically renewed Constitution can be available on both objectives for the 200th anniversary of the Constitution in 2014. The members of the Government of the Parties believe that the current system of compulsory language assurance of constitutional proposals should be continued and adapted to the new system of the Basic Law on both objectives, so that one is able to ensure that all new constitutional proposals are subsequently formulated in correct bookkeeping and in new Norwegian. These members – i.e. those from the government parties – will not support the proposal in Document No. 12:16. I therefore support the following proposal: Amendment No 1 by the members of the Government parties. Both the Progress Party and the Right report that they vote in favour of this proposal. This is joyous and shows the broad understanding of the importance of the Constitution in its own official writing languages. On 12 May 1885, when the Stortinget decided that: «The Government is requested to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Norwegian language of the People's Republic is assimilated to our common language of Scripture and of the Book»; This led to an official writing language in Norway, since national languages became, at present, a new one, which the authorities have had as a policy to facilitate its implementation. Now that we're making it possible for the Constitution to be available both in book goals and in new Norwegian, it will help to make the Constitution much easier for people, and therefore strengthen the foundation of our people's government. The fact that any Norwegian citizen can read and understand the content of the Constitution, on which our nation is founded, will be important in order to help strengthen our democracy. It will be much easier to make the Basic Law and its content known to young people and older people when the Constitution is available in our two official writing languages, new Norse and Book objectives. So in 2014, we're going to celebrate our own constitution through the 200th anniversary. This is an obvious time for decision on the linguistic modernisation of the Constitution – which will remain radical – in accordance with time and conditions. Finally, to me, it is a sighting that the Christian People's Party and the Left cannot vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the government parties. The Christian People's Party believes that the current language form should be maintained, briefly and well. The view of the Christian People's Party will make the Constitution less and less understandable to our youth. The left agrees that the Constitution should be modernised. At the same time, the Left believes that the challenges are not just a heavy language, but that Norway has slowed down substantially in relation to the constitutions of other countries. Therefore, the Left believes that linguistic modernisation will exacerbate a situation that already exists: that our constitution appears as an immature symbol instead of a legal source of highest rank. We in the Center Party fundamentally disagree with this, for us, illogical conclusion. In the future, the centre party will continue to develop the Constitution paragraph by paragraph, in line with the requirements of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1109	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg took up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1112	Let me first refer to the rapporteur's excellent contributions, and join me in what he said. I would also like to thank Mr Lundtigen's representative for the excellent work of the rapporteur. First of all, linguistic change to the Constitution is a difficult and delicate matter — and it has been for a long time. It also shows the history of this matter. When then Vice President Carl I. Hagen raised the question in the presidency last time, the case was rejected, against Carl I. Hagen's voice. What was the background for that? Justly uncertain about the possibilities of modernising, or translating, the Constitution for more modern language use without significantly changing some paragraphs. Language is also about nuances, and it may be difficult to translate languages from time to time. There may therefore be reason to consider some of the reasons that proposers Hagen and Vinje actually provide. They say that the Constitution is available in an obsolete language, and that for that reason the text can be difficult for many people today. Let me add: not least for schoolchildren and students, there may be a need to get involved in the provisions of the Basic Law, at least in some fields – which means that there is a need to look at how to make the Constitution more modern. There is nothing else in the Basic Law on the language in which new provisions are to be drafted, although it has been common for all new provisions to be adopted, all new decisions – for example: The decisions we are making here today – also promoted in the existing language form. An update of the spelling of a number of words was carried out in 1903 in the Constitution. At the same time, some grammatical inconsistencies that had been incorporated into the legal text of the 1800s were removed. We can also read this in the document. In some cases, the 18th century Constitutional Law had introduced forms that were more modern than those found appropriate in 1903, and then restored the old forms. This also belongs to history. Since then, the language form of the Constitutional Law of the United Kingdom of Great Britain of 1903 has been regarded as the norm for the design of new constitutional provisions. Then, in 2006, a unanimous constitutional proposal was made, Document No. 12:8 for 2003–2004, which contained linguistic corrections in 15 paragraphs. That means that it's not that we're sitting with a constitution that goes back in language to the original Constitution of 1814. Nevertheless, there has been absolute scepticism towards linguistic renewal due to problems of interpretation — not least the Workers’ Party’s group has initially been skeptical about this. We've also been in the process of discussing the possibilities of keeping the Constitution in today's edition, but making two so-called school books, one in bookbooks and one in new Norwegian. On this basis, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee found reasons to consult on this document, where prominent lawyers and philologists were called in addition to the Language Council. The hearing definitely subdued the arguments against linguistic modernisation and supported the view that linguistic updates should be both in bookkeeping and in new Norwegian – with the exception of the Language Council, which considered Document No. 12:16 for 2007-2008 was not a language quality assurance and therefore wanted a public inquiry. The document was approved at the hearing in so far as it is not clear that there is no need for further legal quality assurance, as it was said. As the rapporteur stressed, the government parties, i.e. the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, have intended – and believe – that if we are to take the step of modernising the Basic Law, making it linguistically modern, it must be done on both goals. It is simply not possible in 2012 that the Basic Law is simply translated into book goals – or modern national targets. We have to have the Basic Law on both goal leaders if we take this step. The majority of the Committee does not consider this to be the case in the first place. The Right Party and the Progressive Party support the original proposal, while the Christian People's Party is simply opposed to linguistic renewal. It might be interesting to draw parallels to the Bible, which is well modernized quite many times, without apparently having dramatic consequences for its content. What is important to us from the government parties is that we produce an up-to-date translation into both book goals and innovate, and that we ask the Presidency to see that it is done, so that it will be possible to submit a constitutional proposal by the deadline of 28 September, which is the deadline for the promotion of constitutional proposals for the next period. This is because we have a 200th anniversary of the Constitution in the next period. So finally, first of all, the two versions have to be equal, i.e., book measures and new Norwegian. Secondly, in order to reassure all those who are very sceptical and conservative in terms of language use in the Constitution, linguistic modernisation should of course not change the reality of the old Constitution. I guess that's what's really important in the premise for what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1142	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good and thorough work. I know that it has taken a lot of work to get to this setting. I would also like to say that I agreed not to everything, so at least in most of what the rapporteur said in his statement. The proposal we are discussing today has very broad support, both in linguistic and legal environments. The background is, of course, that even the most interested person from time to time can go wild in the Constitutional Language Theme of 1903. For a long time after the Constitution received its final stamp in 1814, it was a very important document for the people. It hanged, among other things, framed in many of the country's classrooms, it gave instructions on our fundamental rights and obligations, it explained how the government should function, and it provided insight into power-sharing principles and democracy. If one today hung up the Constitution in a frame or brought it out on a so-called smartboard – which I think it is called today – it would give students very little sensible guidance, not because the content is poor, but because the language for them would be completely incomprehensible. It is important to keep the Constitution up to date, and in recent years many important and major changes have been made to the Constitution that have ensured better consistency between the actual legal and constitutional situation and what is enshrined in the Constitution. In this way, the Constitution is reformed in many areas of substance, and all indications are that several important changes will take place in the Constitution, both today and not least in the next period. Then it makes no sense for a language theme to prevent citizens from understanding its content. The Progress Party is concerned that the distance between the Constitution and the people should be as small as possible. Then, as in 1903, the language has to be renewed when it is needed, as was the case in 1903, when the previous major language reform was carried out. The difference in language theme from 1903 to 1814 is significantly smaller than the difference from 1903 to today. Some claim, even in this setting, that there is a risk of substantive changes in such linguistic reform, including: has the Christian People's Party a note on this. It is a matter that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has taken very seriously, and we have, as the rapporteur and the previous speaker said, held a hearing on this issue. I allow myself to add that we worked part to find dissenting voices within the legal environments of this country, but we did not find any, so an almost collective legal environment fundamentally rejected this claim. I have now noticed with a certain interest that the Christian People's Party Group has considerably more legal competence than the one we can find in the university environments. I take it for guidance and look forward to the presentation of the Christian People's Party here in a little bit. Another rather strange matter in my opinion is that the Left believes that the language form of the Constitution must be old-fashioned and incomprehensible until a major substantive reform takes place. It is also not so easy to understand, because even if a wish for substantive changes to the Constitution could have been an advantage for citizens to read and understand what is already there today and understand the need for the substantive reforms. There has also been a bit of a strange construction on the part of the government parties, but there is a significant positive change, as the representative Nybakk also explained instead. I think it is good that the parties to the government have promoted the proposal in the vote that the Progress Party will support subsidiaryly. The Progress Party believes it is important that the Constitution should play a role in people's lives. It's even more important if you're going to incorporate more human rights into the Constitution in the next enlargement period, and that's what it's all about. It is not an argument against linguistic reform that one is a constitutional conservative. I hardly know anyone who says that they are not constitutional conservatives, because everyone is constitutional conservatives until a proposal they think is good enough for it to be adopted. Then you're not necessarily so constitutional conservative anymore. That's good, because we need a living foundation. It would have been even better if citizens could also read and understand the content of the living Constitution. That is why the Progress Party wants this proposal to be accepted. There is a thorough work done by Finn-Erik Vinje with linguistic changes that should satisfy most people. We believe that this change can be made now, that we don't have to wait until the next magnification period. Even after a while, the Language Council even thought in this hearing that the language theme of the proposal was preferable to today's, despite the fact that they had not been heard in advance. On this basis, I allow myself to take up the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right in the vote. I would also like to point out that we will support the second best proposal, which in this case is the minority proposal from the government parties, which hopefully will give us the opportunity to change and modernise the language of the Constitution of the Constitutional Jubilee in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1170	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1173	Let me start by giving tribute to Professor Emeritus Finn-Erik Vinje, who has written the draft that is now in existence, and all of whom in Stortinget – at least in the committee position – agree on a good proposal. But it is not to be adopted now. It may make you wonder about some kind of linguistic conservatism that may be a little bit widespread in political life, but at least it's weird. There is an overall committee that writes that renewing the Constitution linguistically, absolutely is in line with the spirit of the Constitution. It is at the expense of an overall committee. There is an overall committee that also says that, despite all possible searches, they have not found a single person who says that the present proposal opens up new interpretations of the Constitution or changes the content of the Constitution. It's just the Christian People's Party that's seen it. The other of us have not seen it, and there is not a professional who has so far signed up, who has seen this. So I look forward with excitement to the contributions of the Christian People's Party group. However, in its work on the matter, the Committee has not found a single point of view. So far I share the rapporteur's comments, which were entirely in line with the Committee's position on these points. The right agrees that the Constitution should be available in a neo-Norwegian manner, as proposed by the government parties, but we can now adopt the present proposal. We've done without a new Norse version for almost 200 years, and the question is, can we wait a few years to adopt a new Norse version as well? I actually think we can do that. We shall then vote in favour of the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party and sub-stitutively for the proposal from the Government Parties, which will initiate a process for a new Norwegian version which will not open up any interpretation problems in relation to a bookkeeping version. It's a demanding process. I hope it can be implemented so that the proposal can be adopted in the next period – that is, delivered by 28 September this year – but it remains to be seen. However, our proposal is that we adopt the present proposal – a proposal that is, in fact, good for everyone, should also be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1180	The representative Per-Kristian Foss was involved in this topic, which has been very central to the plurality, namely that if we are to do this, we must treat the target forms we have in Norway and get new and new books at the same time. It's very tidy, I thought, by the Progress Party and the Right subsidiary to support that proposal, but that they mainly go for the starting point of Carl I. Hagen and Professor Vinje. But there's no doubt that these two, Vinje and Hagen, have helped us get started faster on the process that is now leading to this renewal of Grundlova. One must just admit that had not the doctor led, it would certainly be problematic to come as far as we have come today, where a broad majority goes to renew the Constitution in both forms. There is no problem around the world when it comes to interpretation possibilities, it turns out, and the legal environment does not point to this as a very big issue. In Switzerland, as many people know well, there are many different languages that are very different from book goals and new Norwegian. French and German and several other languages that they have in Switzerland cannot be painted the same way. The interpretation methods must be more open than the relation between the new Norwegian and the book target. So we're going for this -- not least based on the earring that we had, where many hearing aids were crystal clear that it's possible to get this within the time horizon that the plural proposal is now adding. It is clear that it is much easier for a nation to celebrate a 200th anniversary, where one has the Constitution in two equivalent target forms, than to celebrate it with a book target version – and only that. It goes without saying that it would dispel reactions in some environments around Norway. When we run this scheme as the red-green ones suggest, we avoid it. The case-speaker Lundteg has done a brilliant job and how we have come to the conclusion that we have. I just want to sum up by saying that I also like to listen to the Christian People's Party's statement about why one goes against this modernization. In the past, a church settlement can be used, but when language is involved, a language settlement cannot be used. It will be exciting to hear what the representative of the Christian People's Party says about this. I also expect that the representative from the Left will do the right thing for why a language settlement is different than in a church settlement, when there is a possibility of getting such a wide multiple, as summarized. So there are two equal-minded target forms that we can celebrate in 2014, and that doesn't change anything about the realities of today's constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1198	It is good to record that expectations are expressed as to what the Christian People's Party should say and why we mean what we mean. I think it's very nice! I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough work on this matter, although we have concluded differently. A considerable amount of work has been done, and I thank the rapporteur-general for that. The Constitution is the highest legal basis in Norway. The rest of our legislation should not be contrary to the Constitution. Both laws and other decisions taken by the Stortinget can be tried against the Constitution, which is also done in some cases. The basic law also has a symbolic value and is a kind of national clenodium. This is probably also due to the fact that the Constitution is so closely linked to 1814 and Norway’s independence. The language of the Basic Law is old-fashioned, and at the same time it is a peculiar and solemn language to which a tender feeling is attached. Although a full linguistic update of the Constitution was carried out in 1903, the language and some words and expressions are difficult to understand for people today. This creates problems in the promotion of proposals for constitutional changes. Often, there will be linguistic errors that may take several years to correct, due to the procedures around how the Constitution can be amended. I think this is a problem we all agree with. However, despite the arguments for linguistic renewal, the Christian People's Party has come to the conclusion that we want to keep the current language theme. In some cases it may be a question of judgement whether a linguistic change is only linguistic, or whether the content of the opinion may also have changed, because even minor linguistic changes may change the meaning and content of a paragraph and thus also its interpretation. It is good to hear that the Workers' Group has also been concerned about this, and we are concerned about this, even though we come to two different conclusions. The Christian People's Party will oppose the adoption of the present proposal, and will also vote against the proposal to develop new, up-to-date language versions of the Basic Law in book goals and new Norwegian. As far as the investigation proposal is concerned, I have some considerations about that. There is now a short time left until the last deadline for the delivery of constitutional proposals for treatment during the next major period. Although I understand that adopting the changes in 2014 has a symbolic value, I think it is more important that lawyers and language experts who are going to do this work get the time they need. The proposals to be made may be – if they are adopted – our Constitution for the next 100 years. That should not make time, or time pressure, decisive. It must be more important not to alter the content of the sentence and to preserve the distinctive and solemn character of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1213	The left is a party that is for conciliation. We were very much in favour of the climate agreement – we got an impact on many important things. We were very much in favour of the church settlement – we got a lot of important things done. We made a proposal on linguistic renewal and content renewal of the Constitution here in Stortingen a short time ago – and we got nothing. The debate almost ridiculed the promotion of such a type of proposal. I guess we're a little surprised by the enthusiasm for this proposal here, when it goes only in language and not in content, while you almost ridiculed that you would also look at the content when you first looked at the language. We think it's a little pointless just to have a linguistic renewal without also modernizing the content, and going through that point by point and seeing if it's related to both the statehood that we have, and to the other elements. Therefore, the Left felt no obligation to vote in favour of this proposal. We do not regard it as a settlement, nor do we consider it to be a process in which our proposal was included in it. Our main point of departure for the proposal as it now stands is that we should now act with three basic laws: we should have a new version of books, a new version of the book, and if we disagree on the interpretation, we should go back to the old constitution. It's giving us three constitutions, and I'm skeptical about that. If you first adopt a new constitution, you have adopted a new constitution. You don't have the old basic law to go back to in interpretation. The left is also very positive about making a new Norwegian version, so if you're a little bit skeptical about saying that you have to do it before you try to do it. So that's how the Constitution is a law. We're being judged by law. The Bible does not judge anyone. There are entirely other powers vested in judgment. So using the Bible as a comparative basis in relation to the Constitution, I think maybe I'm a little bit sought after. Our constitution had benefited from a linguistic renewal, but it had benefited from a proper revision of content as well. That proposal by the Left was defeated almost without debate. We don't see any reason to do just a linguistic renewal, if you don't also have a major revision at the same time that makes all the points and all the parts of our state custom also come into such an revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1228	The Constitution must be a living document of the Norwegian People's Government. The Norwegian Constitution is, as the case-speaker so well said, the second oldest constitution in continuous use in the world. The Government configuration of the Control and Constitutional Committee is to ensure better access to the Constitution, and believes it is important that it undergoes a linguistic change. Nevertheless, as the representative Nybakk said, we are opposed to the proposal on the table, and it is for the simple reason that when we are going to renew the language of the Constitution, it should be done on both objectives. The goalkeeper is equal in Norway in every way, and therefore we believe that it is unfair to adopt something that has the consequence that a goalmaker gets his basic law long before another. It is not strange, as the representative Foss said, to mean it. That's right. The proposal we are proposing suggests that the new versions be presented as a draft constitution by 28 September 2012 and that the Stortinget seek to adopt the two new editions in the anniversary year 2014. After so many years with a basic law in a language theme so far from the official writing languages, it is more important to maintain equality between the writing languages we operate with than to adopt a change that could undermine that equality. During the hearing, none of the experts could say that there is a real danger that the content of the Constitution will be altered by a linguistic revision based on what has been proposed. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party uses this as a basis both in its article here and in its note form to suggest that the current language form should be retained. Since that foundation has been rejected by experts as an unnecessary concern, what are the other reasons why the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal? Lawyers and language experts have said that the translation can be done within the deadline. Lawyers say it won't bring about a change legally. That's some reason why we held a hearing, that we had that concern. Now we got proof that there was no need to worry. So I wonder if the representative Bekkevold can come and tell once again whether the Christian People's Party bases its view on concerns that have been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1242	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox As Stortinget has agreed, we go to voting in case No. 1 and 2 before we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1255	We're now ready to go to voting. We'll start by voting on case number. 2nd@item: inlistbox The reason for this is that, with that case no. 2 relates to the linguistic change in the Constitution, if we did it in reverse order, we would actually be in danger of changing the Constitution right after we had adopted changes. That's why we first establish the language form and the content afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1265	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, from Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘Document No. 12:16 Constitutional proposal by Carl I. Hagen and Finn Erik Vinje, adopted to produce Carl I. Hagen, on the linguistic renewal of the Constitution – accepted.” [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1287	It's voteroed by name-prop. The name ring shall start with Representative No. 1 from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1305	There is still to be a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy is asking the Presidency to contribute to the development of up-to-date linguistic versions of the Basic Law in book goals and new Norwegian. This work shall take into account that the two versions shall be equal and that linguistic modernisation shall not change the reality of the old Constitution. [[somewhat]] The new versions must be available in order to be promoted as a draft constitution by 28 September 2012. The size should aim to adopt the two new editions in the 2014 anniversary year.’» The President stresses that we are not voting on a constitutional proposal, but a proposal for further follow-up included in the vote. The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they subsidiaryly support the proposal, while the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1329	We are now going to vote on proposals for amendments to the Constitutional Law on the State Church System. Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Alternatively, between the I and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 from the Socialist Left Party reads: ‘Document No. 12:2 [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be replaced by the Committee's recommendations for I.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1366	Proposal No. 2 from the Centre Party is as follows: ‘Document No. 12:25 [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be replaced by the recommendation of the Committee to II.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1387	Proposal No. 3 from Left sounds: ‘Document No. 12:20 [[on the State/Church ratio]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be replaced by the recommendation of the Committee to III.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1408	We're going to vote on option IV, and since the acceptance of this Roman number means that changes are made to the Constitution, it's going to be voted on by roll call.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1416	The name ring shall start with Representative No. 11 from Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1444	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no change of line. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Mr Svein Harberg, who is the rapporteur on the matter. The President asks that there be peace in the Chamber, so that we can hear what the President has to say on the occasion of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1455	It's an exciting day of exciting debates, and it's right and important that the decisions we make in the United Kingdom today are the subject of debate. The issue we are dealing with now is essentially limited to a concrete follow-up to the constitutional changes we have just adopted, but it is also important as a follow-up to that part of the agreement between the political parties of 2008, the State-Church settlement, which is not clarified in the Constitutional Decisions. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for their very constructive and good cooperation. The underlying agreement is a good basis, but there is clearly room for different emphasis and clarification. Today, when the Committee makes a common comment and setting, it is the result of everyone’s contribution – fighting for some points and being voiced at others. This shows that there is a relatively large consensus on the consequences of the adopted changes for the organisation of the Church, and on the relationship we politicians should have with the Church. I hope so. The Norwegian Church sees this as a declaration of confidence by a group of political colleges. At the same time, it helps to underline a strong order to the Church in terms of internal organisation and democracy and the task of the people's church. It will be exciting to follow that development further. Now, when the Church is to be clarified and given a freer position as a religious community, it challenges both the Church and the political environment on how to engage in dialogue in the future, and with whom. The Church shall no longer seek answers from the Ministry, the Council of State or the Grand Duchy on questions relating to the development of the religious community and internal affairs. It must establish good, strong and democratic arrangements as a basis for its own opinions and decisions. Politicians can no longer jump to the Council of State and complain when they are not satisfied with the Church's decisions, but must use the ecclesiastical authorities to address such questions. I guess there's no doubt that both parties together have to find the good balance. However, as politicians, we have a responsibility, independent of this, to facilitate and give political signals in the politics of life, towards the Church and towards other religious and life-view societies. The Committee agrees with the amendments proposed in the case and is pleased that the arrangements now proposed are in line with what the Church itself has wanted. An important change is that the appointment of pros are added to the Council of Bishops, and the appointment of bishops is added to the Council of Churches. The Church must establish good and democratic arrangements around this. One consequence of the Church as a religious community taking responsibility for recruiting its leaders is that they are given full responsibility in learning matters. The requirement that the Council of State should be a member of the Church falls thus also naturally away. However, it must be clarified that it is fully possible for the Council of Churches and other Councils of State to be members of the Norwegian Church. One of the main challenges the Church has faced is to create a real democracy in the organization. The Church welcomes this and has laid the foundations for its work. However, there is no concealment that elections to the ecclesiastical bodies remain a challenge. New arrangements for the election of members of the Council of Ministers have been tried twice, and so has the arrangements for the election of members of the Council of Bishops. There seems to be a great deal of agreement that these choices still do not work well enough. The positive thing is that the turnout has increased considerably. There are still too many votes rejected because of errors in the ballot box, especially as in the election to the Bishops' Councils in 2011. This has to be arranged before you can say that a satisfactory electoral system is in place. The same applies to the need for a much greater degree of real choice in elections to the Council of Ministers — a choice that many places had lists that did not allow candidates to be elected or removed. The Committee is clear that these challenges need to be addressed in order for the settlement to be met, and therefore supports a concrete proposal to establish a dialogue between the settlement partners, the Church and the government in order to put in place a new and good arrangement as soon as possible, so that this can be addressed during this settlement period. A real and living democracy is also dependent on a day-to-day life in which the members of the Church experience the opportunity to address matters they will have dealt with, and the opportunity to express their opinions. The Church should therefore build a culture to this end. It's also important for the function of the People's Church that the Church is present where people are. This is an important day both for Norway as a state and for the Church as an organisation. In the individual community there will be no major changes, but I hope and believe that the Church will be inspired to further develop a living, active and clear religious society, that they will develop themselves in dialogue with the inhabitants, and that they will create a living and active people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1481	As the rapporteur recently said, this is a follow-up to the decisions we made a little while ago. Mr Svein Harberg briefly explained the consequences. I want to start by thanking him for a solid job, both in order to bring about the necessary legislative changes as a result of the constitutional changes, and – not least – to ensure unanimity in the committee. That's where the representative Harberg did a good job. But I would also like to thank the rest of the Committee for good cooperation, and for everyone's commitment to achieving goals. Everyone has been constructive in the changes to the law that have been necessary. There were elements that were not clear from the previous bigotry, because contrary to the church, education and research committee that were in the previous period – which did the main job when it came to the church settlement – we have had little room for action on the constitutional changes, but we have had a room for action on this church law. But we have managed to achieve a good goal, I think, and then everyone has worked very well together. What we have not yet concluded, but on which we have a proposal, is a new electoral system. We're not in the goal; we don't know what exactly it will be. But everyone wants increased turnout, everyone wants fewer rejected votes, and we all want people to experience that they have real choices. That is why it is important for us to show that, when democracy reform is to be completed, we need the government to come up with a new proposal for a electoral system. It is important then that both the Church itself and the conciliators are included in that work. We are then following, as the rapporteur said, the Church Meeting recommendations on the appointment of bishops and the appointment of prosthetics, and also this about the termination of the church council. In crises – situations may arise where the Church disagrees with itself, there is disagreement, there is a large organization – the Church itself decides how to deal with theological questions through bishops or other organs, whether through the subject of learning, if necessary. Then I look forward to working on this further on the question of democracy next year. I think that the Church's success in the future will be closely associated with that, because this is where the legitimacy of the Church lies, in addition to the important job done for all the members of everyday life and at a party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1494	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. This is still a historic and, for many, a joyous day. There is a great deal of agreement between the various political parties that the preconditions underlying the so-called church settlement are largely met. One of the prerequisites of the agreement is to amend the gravitational code, so that different minorities are met in concrete terms in the context of burial, while at the same time continuing the current legislation in the field. This has been met. Democracy reform in the Church has been largely implemented. The challenges lie in the electoral system to be practised and how the system is to be practised, in the implementation of church elections. There is a need for a thorough review of how this can be done better than after the present system, which resulted in the rejection of many votes. The conduct of church elections is therefore to be clarified together with church bodies, and further work is to be done on the design of electoral rules. The Storting asked to have the matter dealt with during the spring of 2013. The Progress Party has expectations that all parties involved will act with an open mind and arrive at a democratic electoral system that is enforceable and that will respect the votes of its members. The Progress Party believes that the constitutional changes that we have adopted today make even more sense to the term "people's church", which we use in many contexts about the Norwegian Church. In this context, we are to adopt changes to the Church Act as a result of the constitutional changes. From today on there shall not be politicians who shall decide who shall be the Bishop of the Church. The Church itself, through democratic processes, is finally to employ its leaders. The religious content of the Church shall no longer be the task of the State. The agreement is clear that it is still the responsibility of the state to finance the Church as a religious community and to support other religious and life-view societies in the same way. To the last point, it's saying that other religious and life views have been supported by the state for many, many years. This non-discrimination is now enshrined in a new Section 16. The new paragraph also stresses that the basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. It is not going to come from the fact that the Church has been subjected to political override in the appointment of bishops and in the case of other church affairs. This override is going to be almost over now. Finally, as a religious community, the Church will have some of the same opportunity as other free-church religious communities to be masters of their own house, while at the same time maintaining our Christian basis of values in the Constitution. The Progress Party looks at these historical changes that are being made today, as important and good steps on the way to further liberating the Church. The party of progress does not share the view of those who believe that these changes weaken Norway as a Christian nation, and that the cross will have to disappear from our flag. With the debate that has been in front of this, and what we are now adopting, the Progress Party has, on the contrary, believed that what we have until now known as the State Church will be transformed into an even more open, inclusive, independent and democratic people's church when the new law is put into effect. It is also worth noting that the Church itself agrees and wants the changes that we have adopted today, and those that we will adopt later today. This citizen that the Church is conscious of its responsibility to further develop the Church of the People.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1520	It's hard to belong to a party that likes to call itself the kindergarten party, because if a representative says that now I have to bring my kids into the kindergarten, we who have no kids to pick up in the kindergarten must participate in the debate here in the Stortinget. Now I have a past in the church, education and research committee that makes it nice to stand here and be able to participate in this important implementation of the changes in the Constitution that we made just a few minutes ago. This has been, and will be, demanding, for the starting point is a settlement, a settlement with a text that is very political. Then there are problems of interpretation, especially when many of us who are going to interpret this have not been able to write the same text. So I'm also impressed that one here was able to come to an agreement. It is so important that all that doubt and perhaps the unsolved and contradictory content that was in that text have been interpreted in such a way that one has retained the consensus. The price one then paid is perhaps that one has come out a little cautiously and conservatively. Had one gone a little bit tougher at the work and – let's say – highlighted some of the debates you probably had here in their time, when a snowcret until the agreement, the price we had paid here today would probably have been disunity. It's very nice that we don't start with just disagreement in the important work that is now ahead of us. It is important that we politicians do not let go of the roof. There are some implementations and changes that we're going to continue with. It is very important, as many stressed in a good way earlier today, that in a modern society issues of faith and life play a major role. I think society is very well served with that. It's important to most of us as members of society. It's a very important part of the cultural infrastructure of a modern society we're talking about here. I also want to add a third element, which is that belief and life-vision organisations can contribute in a very good way in social debates, which means that they are far more ethical and moral than just when we ordinary politicians are running social debates. Not least I've been very impressed with the Church lately, about how it participates in many important debates. As I am now a little on the outside, I may be able to congratulate those who completed this race and came up with the proposals that are available here. Then we shall all wish each other happiness for further implementation – towards a greater freedom for the Norwegian Church to rule in its own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1535	The changes we are now making in the Church Act come as a direct consequence of the constitutional changes that we have just debated and adopted. It was a prerequisite for the church settlement that a democratic reform was carried out that would give the members of the Norwegian Church greater influence. The evaluation committee reviewed the reform and concluded that three out of four points in the reform were met. What was not satisfactory was the electoral system. It did not work well in 2009, and it actually worked worse in 2011. Several aspects of the electoral system failed: For the Joint Council, there were extra candidates, i.e. more candidates than those to be chosen as permanent or temporary posts, in only 48 pst. by the congregations in 2009 and in 42 pst. by the 2011 Associations. For voters' choices, this is clearly a significant weakness in church elections, and developments have gone in the wrong direction during the reform of democracy. There were also fewer candidates in total who were nominees in 2011, compared to 2009. Lack of real choice was greatest for the Episcopal Council. The most obvious weakness was the high proportion of rejected votes in the Episcopal Council, at a total of 9.2 p.m. Such an extent cannot exclude that this has affected specific groups of voters, which have thus gained less influence on election results. Among other things, the proportion rejected is much higher in small socks than in large ones. The preference choices were difficult to understand. There was a lack of information about the candidates, it was difficult to understand how to cross, and the result was that over 30,000 votes were rejected. Those who were elected to the dioceses last year have mainly surnames beginning with the letters from A to D. So if your name was Wøien, it would be a good thing to be elected to the Bishops' Council last year. That also means that the Church Meeting gets a composition that's alphabetic. For the Central Party, this has been particularly serious, since it is the Council of Churches that is now to take over the function of appointing bishops. It is therefore essential that the vote behind the body to appoint the top leaders of the Church reflects and maintains the majority and breadth of the members of the church. In addition, the church agreement states that it is a prerequisite for ‘implementing a democratic reform’. Not enough, but the electoral system had to be adopted before the constitutional changes were due to take effect. This has not happened – precisely because the electoral system has not been good enough. This has been one of the Central Party's main appeal points, as I explained in my article earlier today. When the Central Party is still in favour of changes to the Church Act today, it is because the majority of the Central Party Group has voted in favour of the constitutional changes that were in the Church Agreement. Another leading point for the Centre Party is therefore that it is the Stortinget who will adopt the electoral system in the Church, but this happens after the constitutional changes have been adopted. Should we have followed the church agreement to the point and point, the electoral system would have been strictly in place now. As mentioned at the outset, the changes in the Church Act are a consequence of the changes that are now being made to the Constitution and that change authority and ties between the Church and the State. It requires the transfer of authority and arrangements to the new church system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1571	This is the follow-up to the historical decisions we just made. I would like to congratulate the whole Biggest both on the process leading up to the Constitutional Decisions, and also on this follow-up in the Church Act, which is a necessary consequence for not creating a legal space. Democracy and electoral arrangements are one of the main elements of this matter. I would like to remind you that it was not the electoral system itself that lay as a criterion, but it was having real choices. When some representatives, both in the previous debate and in this debate, use a little strong words that some votes were rejected, I would say that it was precisely because the Church tried to add up to having real choices, that the voters had to make changes and get involved in who the candidates were. Then there was someone who had misunderstood it, who had not made changes, and thus the voices were rejected. It gave us an experience, because it was to satisfy the political environment after the church elections in 2009 that changes actually came up, and those changes did not result in good solutions. That is why it is today that we do not adopt an electoral system first. Now it is important that the Church's organs have peace and time to think through how they can practically solve this with electoral arrangements in the best possible and appropriate way, so that the arrangements adopted have a greater robustness than the one that the Church was recently forced to implement quite quickly. I want to give tribute to the Norwegian Church for how they have managed to implement two choices in a short time with quite extensive regulatory changes and extensive systems that were changed. The other matter, which is also a natural follow-up to the church settlement, is the addition of bishops and prosthetics. It is natural – and the Storting joins the Church’s recommendations – that the democratically governed bodies are added, i.e. that the appointment of bishops is added to the Council of Churches, while detailed rules are laid down by the Church Meeting – and prost is to be added by the Diocese. Here I would like to remind the Council of State and others that there is quite a lot of expertise in the department that has carried out these appointments until now. And the Council of State needs to see whether it is necessary to provide both the competence and the means for this to be carried out in a good and proper manner, which ensures the Church's own authority of destination, but also that there is a competence for these jobs. So to the last point that's been important, and that's about demands for the Council of State's church membership. Some will find it nice to have the Storting say that you don’t want to. It's about the fact that in case of a dispute, especially in the case of removals, there could be learning issues that are implied in the matter. Then it will be the State Council that will implement that case on behalf of the State. It is important for the Committee, and we have stressed this, that in case of a question of learning, it is the Church itself that has to come up with advice – either the local bishop, the responsible church organ or, if necessary, the subject of learning. This means that the Norwegian Church has to make more decisions on learning issues than before. That is the reason why we want to loosen the requirement for membership of the Council of States, so that there is no doubt about where the mandate to decide on learning is to be laid. But the fact that a government council has church membership and responsibility for the Norwegian Church may not be so wise. This is about how great a mandate is to be given, and a requirement makes it a larger mandate. I recommend the unanimous vote, and I recommend the Christian People's Party Group to support it wholeheartedly. I record that we are going to have a great deal of support in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1593	That's one reason why in the last debate we had 30 minutes of speaking time, and in this debate 5 minutes. We've brought up all of the big, principled themes. I just want to comment on some things. One is about democracy. As I said in the previous debate, I think democracy will work when power enters the structures of democracy, because it will mobilize. What's important, as I think is the Church's challenge, and not the challenge of politicians, is to create electoral systems that both mobilize and make it easier to be elective, without wanting the Swedish system of partyists, which they have in church elections. What is our task, together with the Church, is to make sure to have electoral arrangements that guarantee the breadth – the broad people's church that the majority of the Stortinget wants to have, that may have opinions, but that also have a large width, and that makes it possible for me to be a member, but also for those who have sent me e-mails in the last few days, which I feel that I may not be closest. What is important is that the electoral systems do not allow one wing to overturn the choices. The point of democracy, as we all know, is not that the majority has power, but that the minority has something to say at all times. That could be a good point for today's government, yes. So to the last point, that pertains to the Council of State. I believe that this point is one of the points that shows that we are not in the goal of what we are doing today. For us in the left, this was a very important step in the right direction. But the relationship between government councils, employees and the fact that we can get into a situation where government councils are going to sit and decide doctrines, that there's a thoughtful situation with today's law, means that we're not in the goal. This means that the Left is likely to promote legislative proposals in this area in the future as well. I think it should be sunny that it's not a government's job to settle learning questions and to dismiss priests who break those learning questions. So it's a political task to find good systems for it. It's also a constitutional task for us to continue working with a constitution that makes us not get government councils that can get in that situation. After today it is not only important to have a church policy, it is no longer important for the parties, but it is important for the parties to have a church policy and a religious policy in their programmes. I think maybe the political programmes are going to be different after the votes in this Chamber, because there are other challenges political parties have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1608	The last time the Stortinge dealt with church order issues on an almost as broad a basis as today was in 1980. Then the Stortinget discussed the report on state and church, which was drawn up on the basis of the Sivertsen Committee's investigation, which came in 1975. In 1970, the size of the population had itself reduced this sample ‘to assess the whole of the state church system as it was designed’ in Norway, as stated in the mandate. In 1980, as a signal for the forthcoming Church Order Reforms, the Storing Committee joined the government's recommendations in St.meld. No 40 for 1980–81 on state and church. The conclusion was that one would not then have such a basis or need to amend the constitutional provisions, as proposed by the Sivertsen Committee, but that one would instead go to the ‘outer limits’ for a proper understanding of the possibility of decentralisation and delegation’. The signal was clear: the Constitutional Framework would be standing, but within these frameworks the Norwegian Church would be given greater autonomy and right to rule. Treatment at the time thus provided a basis for major reforms in the church system, and important reforms were carried out in the years that followed: the church meeting was established. The awarding authority for public performances was transferred to the Councils of Bishops. The church bodies at central and regional level were given the State Financial Management Authority. And the liturgy authority was delegated to the Church Meeting. Today, the Stortinget has given a new signal in the area of church policy – a signal that the step-by-step reform line in the Norwegian Church is to be continued, and it can now be continued within more open frameworks, as the new Constitutional provisions lay down. There might be a difference of opinion about whether we are now at the outer boundary of the Stortinget in 1980. What is clear, however, is that the new provisions of the Constitution provide a new basis for further independence from the Norwegian Church and that the provisions provide a less bastant framework for such further development. As in 1980, the Storting is now laying a foundation in the form of some leading principles for the future church policy, and for belief and life views policy more generally. The decisions that have also been taken today do not immediately trigger major practical changes, but there is a need for some changes in the Church Act in order to transfer the adding authority of bishops and pros to the Council of Churches and the Councils of Bishops respectively. It is the most obvious and practical new arrangement, but it is a system with which the Norwegian Church is well known. They have given their settings for many years. I want to cooperate with the church bodies on the design of the new electoral rules. I have noticed that the church committee is making a proposal and a request decision on that very matter. This means that a case on electoral arrangements for the Norwegian Church will be promoted in spring 2013. As I had in mind, I believe that the new constitutional provisions lay a new fundamental foundation for church policy. There are four pillars that I think will be important: First of all, what is mentioned in the Basic Law Sections 2 and 16, which states in Section 2 that «the basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage.» And what is written in new Section 16 «The Norwegian Church, an Evangelical Lutheran Church, remains the Church of Norway...». It shows that we take care of what has been, while also pointing forward. The second pillar of church policy is the new section 16, which reads: «More detailed provisions on its system are laid down by law.» This means that at least the basic provisions on the organisation of the Church continue to be laid down in the form of law. The third pillar of church, religious and life-seeking policy is the new constitutional provision, which says that everyone must be "supported on the same line". I read it as a signal that the state should continue to pursue an active and supportive policy of faith and life, and that the state will take financial responsibility for the Norwegian Church's ability to carry out its tasks as a church of the people. The State shall do so in accordance with the character of the Church of Norway as a religious community. The fourth pillar is not mentioned in the Constitution, but then I think that we must have broad political settlements also about what comes later. I think that'll be important. I would like to take this opportunity today – from this pulpit – to thank for a good and constructive cooperation with the parties on the Stortinget and the Norwegian Church on this matter. Some things deserve to be lifted above the political divides – the relationship between the state, the Church and the other religious and life-view societies is such a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1641	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1654	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1663	Nearly 300 meters from here, the trial is under way following the terrorist attacks on 22 July. Today, more young people are witnessing. It has experienced – worst-case – that political extremism is not an abstract but a real threat to individuals and to fundamentals in Norwegian society. The attacks on 22 July did not come from the outside. The businessman grew up in Norway — his worldview and his attitudes are from here, and they are not unique. The opinions expressed by Anders Behring Breivik can also be found elsewhere, not least on different websites. At the same time, his extremism is just one of many forms of extremism in Norwegian society. All hatred, all extremism must be prevented and combated. Before going to the vote, I would like to thank the members of the Municipal Committee for the way in which this proposal has been dealt with. It could easily become a competition for who is most opposed to hate and extremism, but fortunately it was the opposite: we are largely united in understanding the challenges, and when we point to possible measures. An overall committee believes it is a problem that we do not know the real extent of hate crime in Norway. We also agree with the assessments made by the Special Committee of the need to strengthen the work of people who want to leave extreme and radicalised environments. We also agree that knowledge of hate and extremism is important, of the need to identify attitudes to different minority groups and of highlighting the important work done by non-governmental organisations and religious communities. The proposers originally put forward ten proposals. I do not go into everyone, but I find that the Right today maintains two of these, and that the Christian People's Party supports one. So when the evening post today says that the Right asks the Stortinge to adopt ten proposals, it is wrong. The proposal on which the Right and Christian People's Party stand together calls for a ‘clearer mandate’ to public institutions to make facts about immigration available to the public. The IMDi, UDI and UNE publish regular information on immigration and integration. The same is true of the Central Statistical Office. We have recently received two public investigations in the field: the Kaldheim Committee and the Brochmann Committee. The Labour Party agrees that the facts are very important in the debate on immigration and integration, but we believe that the call for a clearer mandate is unnecessary and that responsibility is misplaced. The challenge is not a lack of information. The second proposal, on its own, concerns the establishment of a 22nd July centre. There is no doubt that what happened last year will shape Norwegian society. There will come monuments to remember what happened, and those who were hit. It will be researched, and it will be conveyed to new generations what an open democracy is, and what ideals were attacked. Perhaps established research institutions are best placed to see contexts? Maybe there's other ways to communicate than through a new center? We do not support the Right’s proposal today, but the way Norway should be remembered and learned from July 22 will be the subject again, and from the Labour Party we are open to considering how best to do so. Terrorism and violence can never be prevented by judicial action alone. Preparedness is important, and we're not going to be naive. But we cannot defeat extremism with barbed wire fences, bulletproof windows and barriers. We must respond to what is the motivation for terrorism: extreme attitudes. Not all extremists are terrorists, but all terrorists are extremists. Combating actions without compromising attitudes is impossible. Censuring, waving away, making fun of or demanding that people put ties on is not the answer. If extremists only discuss with extremists and otherwise excluded, they get their reality pictures confirmed. There'll always be a hook that's darker, where people can find like-minded people. It can go wrong. Extreme statements cannot be uttered; they must be uttered. Killing myths and conspiracy theories is about participating in the open, and sometimes unpleasant, debate with factual arguments. I would like to thank the proposers for helping us to have an important debate on how best to combat extremism – into the staging room. The debate will not end here today. It has to be re-used and re-used – here and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1686	As the rapporteur was involved, there has been a great deal of agreement on the matter and on how to look at and address this matter. The case rapporteur was also involved in the events that took place on 22 July, and the trial that is going on right in the street here. It is also important to note that this case involved an individual. It will be easier to combat such environments if they have grouped and if there are groupings that stand out publicly with their views, and that we know in advance have attitudes that can be extreme. In the case of individuals, it will be much more difficult to discover, it will be much more difficult to find out in advance, and it will be much harder to take action against it. Police do a job — a good job too — to keep track of what is happening in society, and have a lot of the extreme environments under control. This applies to the right-hand environments, but also to those of extreme Islamists, who have positions that we would rather not have in Norway. But as I said, individuals may be a lot harder to do with and get done in advance. What is important, and the rapporteur was also involved, are the hateful statements made in public space. Then the question is, what causes hatred and extremism? Why is there someone who hates so much, and who hates so much that they resort to extreme actions? What makes this violent hatred and the extreme attitudes to end in such actions that we saw on July 22nd, but that we have also seen have been carried out by others around the world? I don't think there's any simple answer to that. It may be easy to conclude that those who have these attitudes are, as we say at totning, 'trouble-loving', but I really don't think that's what does it either. I think they have some basic attitudes that are far from what is the established normal among the population. Then it is also important, as the rapporteur was also concerned, to take that debate, to be part of that debate, and to debate it in public space. It doesn't help to keep it in check. It will never help us to get rid of it and get control of it. The Progress Party is committed to combating racism in all its forms. When we go into the concept of racism, it means attacking someone, for example. on skin colour, ethnicity, nationality, religion, etc. – the provision of comments, the treatment of some who are worse off in relation to the general population. It is also important to note that racism has a slightly different aspect. When you give some advantages and special advantages to others, there's also some kind of racism, because you give some special advantages, there's someone who doesn't get these benefits. Then we are also concerned with the concept of ‘racism’, and this is equally important to combat and not least to oppose. The Progress Party does not agree with what the majority of the Committee has said about a multicultural society. Yes, in Oslo we have a multicultural society, in Drammen we have a multicultural society, and in some larger cities we have a multicultural society, but in the very most municipalities in Norway we don't have a multicultural society. There are some individuals who have arrived and some immigrant groups who have arrived in some municipalities, but it is far from all municipalities that experience being multicultural. That is why the Progress Party is not included in this comment, and we do not agree that we are a multicultural society. Nor do we agree that combating multicultural society is a form of new racism. We have more cultures in Norway, we're going to have more cultures, and we're going to have more people with a multicultural background. What is important is that they are properly integrated into Norwegian society, so that they become part of Norwegian society and can contribute positively to Norwegian society. Finally, I would just like to give an explanation of vote on the proposals that have been put forward. As regards proposal No: 1 from the Right and Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement supports that proposal. As regards proposal No: 2 from the Right, the Advance Party will oppose it with the same justification as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1703	On the right, this proposal was promoted in the light of the cruel terror we experienced in Oslo and on the Utøya July 22. It's naive to think that preparedness and security are just about barriers, grids, closed streets and window bombings. There will always be a street in our cities that is not blocked. There will always be routes that can be broken, and there will, hopefully, always be young people gathered under the open sky to discuss what kind of future they want. Therefore, one should also dare to discuss how such a violent hatred as that of 22 July may arise in some people, and why this leads some to use violence to achieve their political objectives. Political disagreements about immigration and integration policies and criticisms of religions as well as cultures are legal, legitimate and desirable in a liberal society. The discussion must therefore also be based on the fact that there are hateful statements and extremism which are harmful to our society and which must be countered, and that all forms of politically motivated violence and terrorism must be combated. Response times can be improved, procedures can be intensified and equipment can be replaced. It becomes even more important to work so that people can live peacefully together even if they are different and disagree, and to create a society based on equivalency, diversity, freedom and opportunities for everyone. How to limit hatred and extremism, reveal myths and build bridges rather than sow disunity between peoples and religions, must be among the most important questions you will have to face without prejudice in the time to come. Norwegian research on terrorism has been largely concentrated on terrorism committed by extreme Islamists. Such environments are also a threat in Norway, and one must avoid a foothold for extreme Islamists. Therefore, it is obviously important to have knowledge about these environments as well. At the same time, it seems that knowledge of terrorism and violence with xenophobic motives has been a low priority. This despite the fact that the politically motivated violence in Norway has, for the past decades, been largely motivated by various forms of xenophobic motives. For example, I can. In February 1981, Hadelandsdrapene mentioned the racist attacks that ended with Arve Beheim Karlsen drowning in Sogndalselva in 1999, and killed Benjamin Hermansen in 2001 as the most serious before the attacks on 22 July 2011. In addition, a number of serious violence episodes have been reported, including shots against asylum recipients. Only in 2007 did the police record 257 reviews of hate crime. Recent numbers have been difficult to obtain. The rapporteur, Håkon Haugli, has given a good account of the position and how the various proposals are being followed up. It is positive that the Committee is integrated in most of the evaluations of the various proposals. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, who has done a thorough job and who has really worked on the various proposals, in consultation with – I expect – the department. As for what was originally proposed, the proposal was No. 8 and 10, which are now the proposals Nos. 1 and No 2, Right wants to maintain these – and promote them. Proposal No. 1 we promote together with the Christian People's Party. We believe that the agencies working on integration and immigration must be given a clearer mandate to make facts and documentation on immigration and integration available to the public. They may have that opportunity today, but I think they at least exploit this potential poorly. Both the IMFI, the UDI and the UN could have been clearer in the societal debate and be clearer about the facts about immigration in Norway. We also want to maintain what was originally proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox We believe that the government has concluded too early that the need for a documentation centre is not present. It's okay what the Government's answer says, that this should be cleared by April. But the trial is now in progress. We know there's a lot that's still open. The 22nd July Commission is also not close to giving its position. I think it's a little early to conclude that this is something that a just should dismiss, and say that this has not been evaluated by the government. We would like to give the government the opportunity to continue to assess the establishment of a centre that can conduct research and dissemination, space exhibitions and receive visits from school classes – in conjunction with a July 22 monument. I am pleased that we can have this debate now. But like the rapporteur, I expect that many of the issues raised will come up again in different ways, both in the coming year, and in the following years. Finally, I would like to say that the debate on a multicultural society is interesting. Of course, it does not belong here, but it belongs to the representative Ørsal Johansen: I would have recommended him on a committee trip we had to Nordland, where we met the rapporteur in Herøy, who explained that in this municipality, with approx. 1 000 inhabitants, there are now more than 50 nationalities who are migrant workers. It says a little bit about how multicultural society is spreading all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1726	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1729	We live in a time of strong globalisation. Distances are getting shorter, and more and more people are moving across borders. The emerging digital society also makes it easier to share culture — even with someone on the other side of the globe. There are many positive effects of a more globalized world, but at the same time, evolution gives us some challenges. In meetings between cultures, religions, different people and different perceptions, a person may feel that dialogue falls — to the benefit of hatred and prejudice. I am pleased that this government is taking this seriously. On July 22nd last year, we experienced a tragedy that is at the bottom of just hate and extremism. Unfortunately, this tragedy also shows that hatred and extremism are not something reserved for specific groups. That's what we find in several environments. Unfortunately, it has become clear afterwards that there are many around the country spreading hate messages and supporting the ideology of the terrorist. We in the Center Party are concerned about taking this seriously. We're concerned that this is a problem we can't just regulate away from. Here, the whole community is required to do a job together. But we as big-time politicians are responsible for the fact that there is always enough knowledge about this, both in the police, in school and in society. We need to facilitate the use of knowledge to refute and refute various hate messages. We can't keep it to ourselves, but we're not going to make new laws to restrict freedom of expression. We're going to make sure that society has what it needs to do to make hatred and racism harmless in words. We have a strong awareness that this is work that must start already in kindergarten and in school. The Minister of Justice has previously stated that efforts to limit racist and discriminatory attitudes will permeate all school activity. In 2010, the Ministry of Knowledge set up a working group to look at how the school could work systematically and globally against anti-semitism, racism and discrimination. This report has been presented, and there are several professional environments that are now working on a new training offer, targeting teachers, school leaders and pupils at the youth level. I would like to stress the importance of precisely this kind of prevention work. I am pleased to read yesterday's Evening Post that the police are publishing several new posts in the department that fight crime on the Internet. This is a bet area both for us and for the police, and it is good that this work is strengthened even more. I must say I am amazed when the starting point of the Advance Party on this matter is that Norway is not a multicultural society. I don't know what's behind the violent resistance to accepting that we're a multicultural society, but I'm having trouble following the logic. They write that in some areas it is about ‘integrating a majority into a minority’, ergo we are not a multicultural society. They suggest that this can be difficult to achieve. My impression is that the Progress Party poses a problem for a multicultural society, which their references to European Heads of State support. I would like to remind you that the new cultures and immigrants are the basis for much of the music we listen to, much of the food we eat, and – not least – they contribute greatly to our working life, which is reflected in the statistics of the SSB. When I travel around the country, I get the impression that both small and large places have benefited and often depend on the new workforce and the new cultures. A multicultural society is not a bad society; it is a diverse society. That being said, this debate should be based on how we should ensure more tolerance and respect, and build up under a common responsibility to stop hatred and discrimination. Then I have to say it disappoints me that the Progress Party is once again trying to turn the debate into a for or against a multicultural society. Integration and becoming a more multicultural society is, of course, a challenge and a demanding work, but it is a work that is not facilitated by letting extremism or hatred unfold. That is why I am pleased that we now have this debate, and I am proud that we have a government that prioritises the work against hatred and extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1752	I would like to begin by thanking the representatives who have promoted this proposal for a representative to step up their efforts against hatred and extremism. That this is an important topic, we all agree on that. The last year has so painfully taught us why. Then the proposal also begins with that: ‘terrorism struck Norway with force on 22 July 2011.’ The ongoing trial is a daily reminder of the need for a reinforced response to hatred and extremism. But other events in the last few days also remind us that the fight against hate and extremism is so much more than speech. In four days, Norway will say goodbye to Gunnar Sønsteby, the Rjukan boy, the war hero, our highest-decorated citizen. The man who spent the years of the war in the fight against hatred and extremism, and who, after the war ended 67 years ago, spent so much of his time and power reminding us of what it was about that time, and what it was about now: that democracy, peace, freedom – it doesn't come of itself. Four days ago we celebrated 17 May, the day of the Constitution, a celebration of our peace and freedom. In a study before the national day, one in three said that this year it would be extra special due to 22 July. I think even more than that knew it this way when the National Day came. I believe and hope we acknowledged that the fight against the forces that gave us July 22 is something that not only requires of society, of the state, of others, it requires something of each of us, of me. We as individuals must stand up for the values we want to preserve and defend when we are challenged. I am therefore also pleased that there is a great deal of consensus to be found in the vote on this proposal for a representative. I choose to draw that out, among other things. the priority and strengthening of research on all forms of extremism and terrorism. It is also good that research projects are sought to identify the scope and content of hateful public spaces. That survey should, as far as possible, provide answers to how the scale has evolved, how these environments are, how radicalisation takes place, how it is argued, what claims are made, what myths are, what facts are and who are the vulnerable groups of our time. More knowledge is needed to move on. The Committee notes that there has been little research into attitudes towards minorities, discrimination and hateful expressions. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State has inter alia: Reference is made to a study currently carried out by the Centre for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities — the HL Centre — on the attitude of the Norwegian population towards Jews and Judaism, Muslims and rum. I look forward to an opportunity to get an insight into the HL Centre's study of the Norwegian population's attitudes to Jews and Judaism, Muslims and Rome, looks forward to its completion. We have to hope it can bring knowledge that helps to take more steps forward in the struggle for an open and inclusive society for all. Perhaps the HL Centre's study could provide us with a better basis for further research into the attitudes towards minorities, discrimination and hateful expressions. I'm hopeful in that way. Improving knowledge is one of the most important tools we can get into the ongoing and intensified efforts against hatred and extremism. Increased knowledge will make it easier to talk together, make it easier to prevent, and in simpler ways we can also fight hatred and extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1768	This proposal for a representative has a tragic background, it came about because of the terrible terrorist attacks on 22 July last year. Let me therefore first of all say that I think both the representative proposal and the vote are a good reading. It clearly shows how consistent we are across party boundaries on the importance of prioritising prevention work against hatred and extremism. A broad, preventive response at an early stage, before extreme attitudes become violent acts, is crucial to our security, together with a targeted strengthening of preparedness. The representative proposal was addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion, the Minister for Culture and I. I reply on behalf of all of us, and in this respect I have also consulted the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister of Defence. Cross-sectoral efforts are necessary in this field, as referred to in the proposal for a representative. The main objective of the Government’s action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, Common Security – Joint Responsibility, is precisely to ensure a more holistic and better coordinated effort to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism, and to increase knowledge in the field. As part of the action plan, the website radicalisation.no was launched on 6 December last year. This page is intended to cover, inter alia: provide information on radicalisation and violent extremism, which may be useful inter alia. for employees in municipalities, schools, child protection and police, or for others working with young people, parents and young people themselves. Through cooperation, we face the challenges much stronger. Police and SLTs, Coordination of Local Drug and Crime Prevention measures, are two areas for cooperation. The Ministry of Justice has commissioned the Police Directorate to assess the use of the police councils related to local terrorism preparedness and prevention, with a deadline of 1 June this year. The Directorate has also been asked, in cooperation with relevant bodies, to examine the SLT-cooperation reward scheme by 1 December of this year. The size will be properly briefed on the follow-up to this work. A great deal is being done within the responsibilities of several departments to prevent hatred and extremism. Many non-governmental organisations also make an important effort. And as the committee has been informed in my letter of reply, the government is committed to following our commitments in the field with various international bodies. I have received new information about the strengthening of anti-racist work at school. The Directorate-General for Education shall issue a mandate on the development and implementation of a training offer aimed at youth, the purpose of which is to prevent anti-semitism, racism and undemocratic attitudes. The mission shall be carried out in the autumn of 2012 until 2015. A fact-based public debate is important. The Police Directorate will in future include reported hate crime in the six-monthly review statistics. Furthermore, the IMDI, UDI and UNE are key societal actors contributing to a fact-based immigration debate. Knowledge and information are necessary for the effective prevention of violent extremism. The Ministry of Justice will consider supporting new projects that may provide relevant knowledge for prevention in this field, including the need for more knowledge of the scope and content of hateful public spaces. Freedom of expression is a fundamental value in Norwegian society. We don't want a society where we're going to monitor ourselves to safety. Rather, such a society would create new insecurity. Therefore, I would like to stress that we all share a shared responsibility to avoid simplifications, fears and generalisations linked to the threat that someone will use violence and terror to achieve their goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1790	As I was in my post, there are groups that have some extreme attitudes, and there are individuals who have some extreme attitudes. My question to the Council of State is: how is the police's ability to capture what is happening in known extreme groups, and how is the police's ability to capture individuals who are developing extreme attitudes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1798	There is a lot of good police work also in the prevention field. So it's still the way that we stand together and work well with these issues, we're getting stronger. There is some background to the action plan we presented in this area before Christmas 2010. We have done a lot to ensure that we also know more about this field in the police, and also invested in new skills – this is true both in the PST and in the ordinary police. Of course, the goal must be that we get better and that we get to know the different environments well, so that we can also better prevent in the groups we already have in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1805	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1810	I would also like to thank you for the debate. I support the 100 pst. when they say that safety is not just about lattice and barriers — rather the opposite. The Norwegian welfare society with small differences between people is much more important – Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's emphasis after 22 July on more transparency, more democracy, as well. We must reveal, but even more, protest against hateful statements and actions – no matter who they are directed to. As elected representatives, we have a special obligation. I fully agree when the proposers highlight the clear voices of youth organisations in the debate. On April 11, this year, the head of the AUF, Eskil Pedersen, said on his blog: ‘Many of the debates started after 22 July are far from complete. We need to talk about how we keep an open society with confidence and transparency." [[...]] This debate is not specific to Norway. The Council of Europe's report on living together, and how to combine diversity and freedom in the 21st century Europe, is a product of the work of Secretary-General Jagland to increase the Council of Europe's concentration on human rights and a Europe that is perceived as free and democratic by all. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. The report goes straight into our debate today. It sees one major threat to our values, namely the increasing upsurge of xenophobic populist parties around Europe. It demonstrates a clear link between increasing intolerance, xenophobia and extremism, discrimination, religious conflict, the development of parallel societies in the wake of rapidly increasing immigration in the last few decades on the one hand and the loss of democratic freedoms on the other. Europe has seen the consequences of this before. Another danger signal is described as a widespread lack of political leadership. What we have to ask ourselves is, what kind of politicians are we? Are we leaders, are we going ahead and taking the difficult debates, or are we keeping our mouths shut because it is more convenient? I think that the debate here today shows that we want to contribute, as well as politically. Then we also have to show it in practice. The Council of Europe believes that it is possible to live together if certain basic values apply in what we say and what we do – in fact, concretely in 17 recommended guidelines. The entire Committee wants such recommendations from international organisations to be followed up. We can start with these 17, for example. when notifying the notifications of integration and refugee children shall be debated in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1828	On July 22, last year, we experienced a cruel terrorist attack on Norway. The businessman is Norwegian, and he has attended Norwegian school in Norway. This is that he's Norwegian, I think he put a punch in us. It shows that there is not necessarily an external threat to be combated, but also attitudes and actions from the Nordics in Norway. I think what's important in the future in the fight against hate and extremism is along two lines. The first track is that the important thing is what we, each one of us, do, what we do when we hear that others express hatred and extremism. Do we say so? Do we take a clear and clear distance? Are we the veiled neighboring kerchief that is being demanded? One thing is the conversation face to face, but what do we do when the statements happen on the Internet? Here we also have to tell you if we discover something, and report it to the police when we see things that are not good. We as individuals have a responsibility as well as that teams, organisations and religious communities must be involved in this work. There are several football clubs that play with advertisements on the themes where it says ‘MOT’. That is a good initiative. Schools and kindergartens have an important role to play in the mind-creating work. At the same time, we must be concerned about protecting freedom of expression. The fact that we can have an open vocabulary is a prerequisite for an open society and for understanding and responding to extremism. Such statements must be contradicted, and any prejudices and factual errors must be argued against. The second track is the task of the authorities in such work, inter alia: through the PST, the police, the Stortinget, through legislation and the State budget, and the government through work on, among others. Action plans and follow-up to the work of the 22nd July Commission. I wonder at the Progress Party, which is so afraid to say that yes, we are a multicultural country. People from over 200 different countries live in Norway. Some are refugees, some are students and some are work immigrants. It's not only in the big cities, but also around the small municipalities of the country, it's a mixture of several nationalities, which the representative of Greece also had a good example of. It's an example in itself that we can live in coexistence. Then it's that we have to keep looking at how we can focus on how we're going to work together, and as the committee says in the comment, 'not if we're going to work together.' Now we've just celebrated May 17th, and the pediatrician is just the collective proof that we want to tolerate each other and combat hate and extremism. We called for our Constitution and the values at the bottom of our values in Norway, equality, democracy, respect for human rights, freedom of religion and expression. We must bring this with us in the further work that must be ongoing against hatred and extremism in the Norwegian community, but also in the world around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1845	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 4th@item: inlistbox After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1850	Then we are ready to go to voting on the matter no. 3 and 4 on today's map. Case No. 1 and 2 are already over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1965	It's going to add up to A.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1974	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1983	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. It's over B.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e1997	Two proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Trond Helleland on behalf of Right There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess the establishment of a centre that can conduct research, dissemination, space exhibitions and receive visits from school classes in connection with a July 22 monument.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e2022	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess whether any of the public authorities having an influence role in the integration field should be given a clearer mandate to make facts and documentation on immigration and integration available to the public’.» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-21.ana.ud1850e2129	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
