ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e41	Representatives Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, Jon Hunter Gåsvatn and Vigdis Giltun, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the county of Hordaland: Filip Rygg For Northern Ireland: Kari Storstrand For the Westfold province: Heidi Ørnlo Two permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group on the welfare permit of the representative, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, from 27 November to 30 November from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative, Henning Warloe, from 27 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the province of Hordaland: Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad For Oslo: Afshan Rafiq Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad and Afshan Rafiq are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e103	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 23 November 2012: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 23 November 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is decided: Prime Minister's OfficeState Secretary Svein Fjellheim will be dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg with effect from 1 December 2012. Vice-Chairman of the Trade Union Mette Nord is appointed State Secretary for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. State Secretary Jan-Erik Støstad is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for the Council of State Anniken Huitfeldt. Advisor to the Joint Undertaking Norvald Mo is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Anniken Huitfeldt.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e127	The representative, Knut Arild Hareide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e130	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I am delighted to present the proposal to modernise Norwegian aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e135	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e138	On behalf of Knut Arild Hareide, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and I signed, I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on measures to increase physical activity and improve public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e143	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00. Case No. 1–4 is a financial debate and, at the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e192	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over a day with a total speaking time of 6 hours and 40 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 140 minutes, Progress Party 90 minutes, Right 70 minutes, Socialist Left Party 30 minutes, Central Party 30 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes and Left 15 minutes. It is proposed that the changes in the Rules of Procedure should be arranged as follows: six replies will be made to the speeches of the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and four replies to the speeches of 10 minutes or more, as well as to the speeches of the other state councils – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e203	When I have the honour to present the financial position, there is the last big financial debate in the Storting before the voters next fall will go to the polls to choose who will lead the country further, and which direction Norway will take after the 2013 elections. It is an important reminder, not just for government and the Storing, but for business, for workers and for people most concerned with safe economic governance, good predictable framework conditions and work for all – the voluntary, small children’s families, yes, most in Norway who are concerned about Norway being a safe society with small differences, where we share fairly and want Norway to move forward in that direction. Norway is doing well, much better than most countries in the world. Around us in Europe, more than 25 million people go without a job, without a belief in the future. The availability is well over 10 pst. on average in the countries around us. Youth unemployment is much higher. Many countries are struggling with high levels of government debt. Many countries need to build up their welfare. It hits primarily those who need it the most. In Norway, the situation is different. The UN dares us back to the world's best country to live in. We have good government finances. The share of jobs is among the highest in the world. In particular, the proportion is high among women. We have come through the severe financial crisis, which is the most serious economic downturn since World War II, with Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Under the red-green regime, over 330,000 new jobs have been created in seven years with employees and business. That's eleven times as many as under the previous government, where the Right was the largest party. And not only that – it is important for many and also important for me to say: the vast majority of jobs have come in the private sector. So this is the result after seven years with the government that former Minister of Industry from Right, Børge Brende, thought would pursue a doomsday policy towards business and the workplace. So it wasn't like that. Why is that so? Well, because the goal of working for all and good welfare systems requires that we have productive, competitive companies that create jobs and values. The economy needs a government that keeps the economy in order, which has the will and the ability to hold back the use of oil money when everyone else calls for it to be more beneficial, and which facilitates increased value creation through good, stable framework conditions. That is why we have kept the tax burden unchanged at the 2004 level after we went up to that level in 2006–2007. The strange thing when you hear Norwegian debate is that you should not think that more, including international, actors also consider Norwegian tax policy to be relatively competitive, at least in Nordic context. Not only that – we have also eased the burden on business by removing costs. When we implemented one of the largest measures for small businesses – removal of the audit obligation – we were boasted by the NHO President, then Bernander, who called it the time simplification measures for small businesses. We also focus on active labour market policies and a more inclusive and decent working life through a wide range of thousands of action areas, strengthening a job strategy and a renewed and strengthened youth budget. We focus on research and knowledge. So the research effort in Norway has increased by 32 pst. in real terms in seven years. It makes us that country in the OECD area with the second highest public research effort per capita. We train more students. We're building study places to make room for people to also take education and contribute to business in the future. It's bet on roads and railroads over a low shoe. It is not possible to escape the fact that the road appropriations and the railway appropriations have also received a completely different rate change after the red-green government took over. We have provided full babysitting, which means that very many young children's parents can be at work while the children are safe in kindergarten. To end this history description, this is not unreservedly international either. This is one of the reasons why the World Bank ranks Norway as one of the best countries to run stores and businesses. I'm glad to hear that. All this is continued in the vote by the majority parties. In the 2013 budget, we continue to work to secure Norwegian jobs and expand Norwegian wealth and well-being. I wouldn't say that, but I think some people who had looked at Norway and were going to comment on Norwegian policy, would say that the black paint from parts of the opposition appears to be a bit parochial with these results as rugs. The right side, and then I believe that the Progress Party, the Right and the Part Left, has for seven years signed – and continues in this setting that we are debating today – a picture of Norwegian enterprises and jobs in the process of falling short due to, for example, taxation through the property tax of 1,1 pst. of taxable assets. When the fasitium shows that in these years of taxes on wealth, more than 200,000 new jobs have been created in the private sector, that more than 20 000 new enterprises have been created that make good – and increase their profits – and that the owners are more optimistic than in the long term, I think it has been mildly said quite specifically. So we've done all of this together with business and employees within a framework where we're still going to have a tax system where everyone contributes, where the richest also over the tax bill contributes to the community and the fissure layer that the welfare state is. One of the sharpest lines of adjustment is precisely the fiscal policy — and the wealth tax in particular. There is an explicit measure from large parts of the opposition that the property tax should be removed, and it should be removed in the form that today's government will be replaced by a new one at the next elections. At what pace, however, there is great ambiguity around. The Progress Party proposed earlier in our own proposal for a representative – there were actually two proposals – but the sum was that the entire wealth tax should be removed from 1 January 2013. In their alternative budget, they put about. 1 billion. kr to remove taxes on wealth. Now I'm not a math professor, but it says itself that it takes about. 15 years to eliminate taxes on wealth if you're going to add up to that rate. On the other hand, right-hand kutter 3 billion. kr in the taxes on wealth in its budget and are therefore better placed to remove it during a period. My hypothesis is that they believe this when they say they want to remove it, and that they will manage to prioritize it. But it's going to be special and exciting to see how they're going to find the money to do it. The removal of taxes on wealth not only means that there will be less money in the single fund to pay for schools, care and roads, but it is the recipe to reintroduce zero-tax or minimum-taxors in Norway. I see in today's newspapers that there is once again a suggestion that the Right, as the largest opposition party – at least on the polls now – is unable to answer how to find the recipe for how the richest will also contribute over the tax bill next year. It's almost as if you don't think what you see, when the Right, which likes to be a business party, is now asking the Minister of Finance how to introduce new taxes for business, whether it's protective deductions or increased tax on dividends, i.e. anti-business proposals, which will contribute to strong lock-in effects in the capital of business. When Today's Business writes about that, I understand that it has made an impression on the representatives from the Right – how the removal of the property tax will turn out. Removing that tax is also a recipe for increasing differences in Norway. There's something outrageous about that. In Norway, we value, it's its own Norwegian value, that there are small differences between people. In Norway, it is a value, almost a matter of course, that everyone has to contribute. I therefore think it is completely unreasonable that we could risk getting a large number of new people who pay zero or little taxes, and that more than 150 of the 1000 wealthiest in Norway will pay less taxes than an industrial worker by removing the tax. I also think that people think it's unfair when, for example. On the right of its alternative budget for 2012, with the wealth tax embedded, they receive the highest incomes 40 times as much tax cuts as ordinary people, and that young children’s parents and others receive the bill in the form of increased child care prices and increased taxes. The property tax is only one of the taxes that the right-hand side has promised to eliminate. The Progress Party has confirmed, through the budgetary procedure and the publication in the media and others, that it is up to 100 billion. they aim to reduce Norwegian taxes and taxes, while the Right has limited to 25 billion. kr. With the budget proposals and the position we are discussing today, they are both on track to achieve this goal. What the result is is not certain. It will depend on the strength ratio between the lots – if they win the choice. In a Europe that builds up well-being and, for the first time since World War II, is in a situation where the next generation does not get better than the previous, we build up well-being in Norway. We have been able to do that because we have chosen to prioritize the big money for the right problems and say no to tax cuts. Therefore, several international research foundations rank Norway as the best country in terms of wealth, as well as economic development. I have mentioned a number of the main initiatives in the government's draft budget, which were presented earlier this autumn, and which, of course, are supported by the red-green parties. Many of the proposals are also widely accepted here in the storeroom, also in addition to the government parties. I'm very happy about that. But the government parties have also made a good budget proposal even a little better through some changes during the reading here in the Stortinget. I hear someone saying that we are not listening to what is being said and heard, and what people think about the draft budget. I do that with the greatest seriousness. But it is not fair to say that one can make major changes after having worked for such a long time with the draft budget and has a majority for a policy two consecutive choices. But some changes have been made. Among other things, we have reversed a cut on so-called treatment trips abroad, we have given the Maritime Church more money to strengthen its work with children abroad, and increased activity support to different defence-related organisations. I would just like briefly to point out that there is a typographical error in the majority comment under the Health Ministry Framework, where the correct net framework is 145 155 570 000 kroner – otherwise a quite fresh figure, which might say something about how it is also being put into the health sector here in Norway. It's a number you don't really understand, but everyone understands that this is extremely big money. So to give you one little example, it's going to be 75 pst. Of what the Progress Party says they should cut taxes and taxes – which are then two-thirds of the health budget. Finally, it is becoming increasingly clear that next year's choice will again be a direction choice. An overall opposition disagrees about very much: the use of oil money, the rule of action, climate, assistance – the rope is drawn in different directions – yes, most of all. With the exception of perhaps the Christian People's Party, they agree on two points: they want to use a possible new majority to cut Norwegian taxes and taxes, and they want to replace the current government with another alternative. What this option implies is still unclear, but we look at the outlines from the debates, from the various parties' draft party programmes, the alternative budgets and the vote that are being discussed today. For the first time, perhaps next year, we will have a settlement between a red-green government, which has shown that they can rule Norway safely over many years, and a government option that means that a large party on the right will have a significant influence on what the government is going to do, and on which parties the government is going to assume. So for the first time, the power in Norway will be to the right of the right. I'll warn you against that. When I believe that the setting shows that the country is served by a red-green government, it does not mean – I repeat: not – that I mean, that the government means, I believe, and that the majority believe that all problems are solved after eight years of red-green government. That doesn't mean everything is perfect in Norway, it isn't. But we can see the voters in the eyes, also through the draft budget and the position we are discussing today, by saying that Norway is going in the right direction, that we are going to take Norway further along that track. When the opposition asks what is possible for us to do the next four-year period that we haven't been able to do in the years we've been running, it shows, in my opinion, a lack of understanding of how to build a society. The community isn't a static size, it's something that's moving all the time. Then we need a government that is willing to discuss new problems again, and does not come with old solutions wrapped in new paper. We need a government that's taking society in the direction we've been building it out in the last few years. We will do that by creating more justice in Norway, by contributing to more growth, more community, combating social inequality, and correcting the shortcomings that everyone sees in the care of the elderly, in health, in the housing market, in transport. We need to invest the big money in the future, in knowledge and in work. We have great ambitions on behalf of the country, and then everyone has to contribute. It's perhaps the sharpest line that goes through this setting, that not everyone agrees that there has to be a driving rule that we all agree on. With this I recommend setting in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e257	The Workers' Party is generally very concerned about giving the impression that only those who can conduct a responsible economic policy are the ones. At the same time, when we challenge the government on the details, we see that there is a lot that is very irresponsible – at least in the light of the Progress Party. In one of the budgetary issues raised by the Progress Party to the Government, budgetary question No. 705-- we're asking how much we're lending our oil wealth to. When, for example, lends money to Denmark, they pay 1 pst. interest on loans of our oil assets. When we are going to build a bomb road in this country – which the government is making for almost all road projects – we are going out of Norway to borrow money. Then the government says we're on average paying 2.23 pst. interest rate. So we're borrowing the money we've already earned, to 1 pst. interest, and then we borrow back the money from others to 2.23 pst. interest rate. Any company, any bank that operates like that, will see that they lost money quickly. Can the government see that this is not a responsible economic policy, borrowing cheaply and borrowing home expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e266	Yes, at least I can, and I'm sure the government will, because we understand that ruling a country is different than controlling a bank or a single company. In Norway, we have a little too much money coming out of the ground in the form of oil and gas, in a little too short a time. That's why the parties on the Storting, except for the Advance Party, have decided that we should have a rule on how to do this. I understand that this is a difficult question for the representative of Solvik-Olsen, who disagrees with the Right in the matter. So they're at a level where they agree on what they're going to give in Christmas presang, but not how much they're going to give in terms of oil money to the Norwegian economy. The reason why we lend money to other countries is not because we think it makes more sense than building roads. It is simply because we have decided that if we spend too much money in the Norwegian economy, it goes beyond – we can put interest and jobs at risk – and that putting money in e.g. Danish bonds are a place where we get money back, while toll companies help finance roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e273	The next representative is Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e276	President, I'd like to take over that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e281	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, cannot do that. When the representative of Tybring-Gjedde has asked for the floor, he may have to withdraw from the list of speakers, it may not be taken over by another representative. Tybring-Gjedde doesn't want the word. Another line goes to the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e286	Thank you, it's possible to make it easy. What I'm taking from the answer here is that Norway has so much money that it actually makes sense for the Norwegian economy to borrow the money cheaply and rather turn us around and borrow the money back home expensive when we're building a toll project. I can't see that being rich means you're going to waste your money and actually lose money in the banking market. That's what this government is doing. When we have an oil fortune, we should at least allow the toll companies to borrow money from the oil fund at the interest rate that Denmark receives. Instead, when you build a toll road – and most of the roads this government is building – you are forced to go to the private market and borrow money. A lot of people go to the Kommunalbanken, but the Kommunalbanken thinks it's 97 pst. abroad, and that means that the pressure in Norwegian economy will be exactly the same if you take home your own oil money, or if you go to City of London and take money from them. The pressure in the Norwegian economy is going to be the same because you're adding foreign currency in both cases. The difference is that what the government is doing is making sure that some banker in the City of London or some other financial market sits and makes money on this, instead of using our own oil assets that we have created, to build the roads that give a positive return for this country. So we've seen that if you build highways in Norway, you get three and a half heads for each of the heads you invest. It's a good investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e293	Firstly, I believe – and not just myself – that it is a fact that railways and roads are being built at a very different pace than it has been before. We've done that because we've been lucky enough to spend money on it over the state budget. Then we have also said that this is a full opportunity for the local politicians who want it, to build roads even faster through toll companies or bombings. The difference in what Solvik-Olsen suggests, and what I'm suggesting, it's that I recognize that when you start increasing activity in the economy, for example. by the fact that toll companies can borrow money, this leads to increased activity, which means that purchasing power must also be withdrawn. And while I'm honest enough to say that those companies must have their own revenues in terms of tolls, Solvik-Olsen says that you can get that money from the oil fund. I find that irresponsible, and that is not a policy I want to support. There are also very many people who borrow money to pay for investment in Norway – municipalities, businesses and individuals do. So it's going to be very interesting to see what the Solvik-Olsen range here really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e299	I'm pretty sure we're going to take the tax debate all day, so I'm more inclined to draw attention to what the representative Micaelsen presents as a success story, the development of the labour market. In fact, the SSB figures show that the employment rate in Norway in the third quarter of this year is lower than that of the Bondevik II government in 2005. We also see that the proportion of people with disabilities in the labour market has fallen dramatically. In addition, we have seen throughout the year that labour disputes in the labour market have exploded. There is one side to the red-green policy that Micaelsen rarely talks about, and I wonder, therefore, whether the Micaelsen agree that new ideas and better solutions are also needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e306	I think it must be the first time the representative Gundersen does not ask me about taxes in a line change in the finance debate, it says a little bit about where on the heels Right is in the tax debate by day. I agree that there are also some disturbing features in the Norwegian labour market. There is no doubt that we have got tens of thousands of new workers from the Eastern European countries, who come to Norway to seek work and contribute to the Norwegian community, also put some of the Norwegian traditional ways of thinking about working life under pressure, partly because there are people who are willing to work for less money than many in Norway are, and partly because there are some cultural features that make it change. I am also concerned that there are too few people with disabilities entering the labour market. I recognise that, but I do not understand why we are going to try out the old-fashioned, immature solutions that we have tested before in the labour market policy, which is now proposed by the Right. Increased use of temporary employment is clearly an incorrect step to take. I think it is strange that the Right now does not recognise this, when they have also recognised that fiscal policy is a little immature.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e313	I have some doubts as to whether I heard correctly, namely that the representative Torgeir Micaelsen blames the foreign labour force for the fact that fewer disabled people are working in Norway – that is a very strong claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e318	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e323	No, I hope it was wrong. Because the question raised by the representative Torgeir Micasen was related to the employment of disabled people today being lower than it was when the Bondevik II government went off. Employment among people with disabilities has fallen sharply in recent years. If we look at young people, the proportion increased by a total of 10 pst. Just last year. Does this not really show a government without executive power? They talk about having some ideas about what to do, but the results speak for themselves: employment among people with disabilities is falling sharply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e330	I did not mean to suggest that it is the fault of foreign workers that there are too few disabled people working in Norway, but I just think it is a little difficult to understand that it is not possible to admit that we have very good results in the field of working life. More people are now in work than in 2005. Then I recognize that there are challenges, that there are too many people with disabilities, young people with disabilities, who are on the outside of the labour market. But what I don't understand is, when the Right is talking about doing things in a new way, why are all the old proposals in the field of working life recycled? Why can't the right parties instead support the government's work on a job strategy, with a new, strengthened youth guarantee to help young people enter the labour market, and a wide range of other proposals? I have no faith that more of those on the outside of the labour market will enter the labour market and participate in Norwegian society by making working life more precarious.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e335	If we have then been told that it is not the fault of the foreign employees, there may be something about the government, but I did not hear anything about it in the answer. My question is what the Micaelse invited me to do, which is to look a little further. What are we going to do with a society that's changing? What are we going to look at to get an even better society? I fully agree that much is good. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, a welfare society is much more than a welfare state. It is therefore alarming to us how this government has systematically built up cooperation between the public and voluntary organisations operating in the area of health and social care in our country. Obviously, the value of this has not gone up for the government. My question is then: why do you put down another sample to make sure that the cooperation between volunteering and the public is on track?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e342	First, I just want to say to the representative of the Syversen that I fully agree that society is based on far more than a comprehensive welfare state. It is based on safe growing conditions in the family and in the community. Voluntary organisations may also play a very important role in this. Therefore, I do not think it is right for the government to depriorize the work of voluntary and other private ideas to contribute to the health care system. For example, in the care of a drug, there's still a big part of this, but we see that it's demanding, that it's challenging. This is why a new review has now been launched to look at quality and how the interaction between the state and the private ideals can be achieved. But I also want to add: it can't be that you're inside, for example. care has a right of way even if you are a private non-profit, when we see, unfortunately, that we do not get good enough quality either in the public sector or in part of the private ideals. Therefore, this should be thoroughly reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e347	When I hear the representative, Micaelsen, everything's fine. There is hardly one thing that can be done more optimally and better than what the sitting government does, except for the treatment trips and a little bit to the Seafarer Church. Me and the Left are of the opinion that there is a lot that is good, contrary to what the Micaels blamed the Left for in their post, namely black paint. But a number of things can be done more optimally, for example. within the tax system, so my question is: why do governments and the Labour Party not want to use the tax system more to stimulate innovation, to research, and not least to environmentally friendly behaviour? In fact, the opposite is happening today, according to the government's own figures. Environmentally hostile tax subsidies total 6 billion. kr, according to Table 6.4 of the 2013 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e352	I share the view of the representative Trends and the Left that we can even more contribute to a green tax exchange where we stimulate environmentally friendly behaviour, but then we also have to dry down a price for the polluter to pay. But I probably don't share the view of the representative Tendens and the Left that a lot of this is going to be done within the tax system as well. I just have to say that I am surprised when I read the alternative budget of the Left and the position, where they have now gone completely wild in a number of tax proposals. There are three densely written pages with all possible variants that tax will solve all the problems in Norwegian society, in my opinion. The left also goes quite far in some of the tax cuts, but they save themselves by salinizing their budgets with a sharp increase in some environmental taxes, which I think ordinary people will be shocked if they get presented. I think maybe instead of discussing this with me, which is very much in agreement with some of the intentions, the representative should deal with Solvik-Olsen, Siv Jensen and some others she has been planning to work with in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e357	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e361	The Progress Party has put forward a good alternative state budget, focusing on security, freedom and action. We show that one with the enormous economic space that the state of Norway has can spend money in a slightly better way and provide better services and a better everyday life for most people. The Progress Party will use the action space in the Norwegian economy to reduce the level of taxation and reduce red tape. We will stimulate greater investment in business and greater investment in infrastructure. We will conduct a responsible economic policy with greater respect for taxpayers' money than the government has shown. The results of our proposals will be an increase in the growth capacity of the economy, a safer well-being, and safer jobs. Statistical central agency has done calculations of our budget this year. They show that our policy is positive for the country. We believe that the government has not understood what creates values, when it travels abroad and boasts of high taxes and a large public bureaucracy. One creates a false security when one shifts the rule of action rather than discussing what taxpayers' money is used for. There will be major problems when one has the wrong cause–effect analysis in relation to the situation in Norway. We've been very good, but primarily, says the SSB, it's due to big investments in the oil sector. If we don't understand that context, we're not able to do anything on the day oil prices might go down. There the government makes a fatal error. Our main priorities are to increase employment, reward efforts and make people live on their own income. It will stimulate entrepreneurial investment and knowledge. We want to make better use of the labour force by building infrastructure to remove cows on roads and in health care. We will get people to work rather than leave them in a condition of health and social security, and get young people into work rather than having them on Nav. We are committed to security, security and preparedness. We take better care of those who have built the country by reducing the tax on pensioners, reducing the curtailment of married pensioners and starting work on removing the withholding tax. Our budget follows up the proposal for a new and better anchoring of the economic policy that we have promoted. We want to distinguish the consumption of the state from the investment of the state. We will limit the growth of the public sector. At the same time, we will accelerate socially profitable investments. The government's draft government budget has a record 1065 billion. kr in expenditure. We miss clearer priorities with so much money. We can have greater power of action and more respect for the management of taxpayers' money. In what the Progress Party proposes, we cut the government's spending page by 18 billion. kr. We're reducing taxes and taxes by 23 billion. kr and re-priorities from bureaucracy to services, from consumption to investment. Then we balance the budget with 5 billion. kr more than the government proposes. Here I ask the Minister of Finance to listen, because he has written a number of chronicles in the country's newspapers in the last days where he later feels as if we don't recognize it. Well, I say it openly and honestly: we use 5 billion more oil crowns than the government does. We are proud of that, because it will improve the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy and make our children and grandchildren feel better than if we save that money at low interest rates abroad. In addition, we set up two investment companies for road and rail according to the model that the Minister of Finance himself proposed in the Evening Post four years ago. We're adding 15 billion to those companies. kr in equity, just as the government gives money to the House Bank, to Petoro, to State Power, to Statnett and others. These companies will be able to invest in better roads and better railways, assuming that they are socio-economically profitable, i.e. that they provide a better return than the oil fund receives from lending its money to Denmark. We assume that approx. 5 B.C.E. kr of this will be invested in 2013. We're not hiding these numbers, Finance Minister, so you should stop lying in your chronicles. The central statistical agency has calculated that even if we spend 10 billion dollars. In total from the oil fund into the Norwegian economy, the consequences for the Norwegian economy are higher GDP, higher employment and lower unemployment, but also lower inflation and lower interest rates. All of that, I think, is a positive development for the Norwegian economy. It shows that the rule of action and the chalk line the government has drawn is not the optimal goal of getting the best possible well-being and the best possible situation in this country. We can spend the money a little bit differently, and it can actually go better than the government wants. But it's about removing some ideological and pragmatic barriers that this government has put on itself. The government believes that society should be changed through bans, increased fees and strict restrictions and more laws. We believe in positive changes. We want to stimulate people's behaviour through positive tax relief. In this debate, the Labour Party has already tried to say that all tax relief is tax relief to the rich. Yes, yes, yes. The progress batch increases the minimum deduction of income by NOK 20 000. That's $5,600 in tax relief for each person, regardless of whether you make $2,500,000 or $250 million. kr. But in the government's world, there's one who makes 250,000 dollars, among the rich. We remove the property tax for 100,000 people by increasing the minimum deduction to 1 million. kr. So the minimum pensioners with paid housing are among the rich in this society, says the government. We increase the credit card limit from NOK 40000 to NOK 60000 to stimulate students to work a little more in vacations. Then you're a student, you're among the rich. We're increasing the tax deduction for pensioners, so that the pensioners who have a pension of $200,000 get 4400 kroner in tax relief. But then they're obviously among the rich. We want investment in the preservation of cultural memories to be written off on the tax. So you do energy saving, or you take care of your old buildings, you're also among the rich. We will give tax credits for training cards and collective cards paid by the employer. This has important effects on public health and on queues entering cities. We can remove problems in many areas. But then you're among the rich, the government says. We're removing the inheritance fee. If you inherit from your parents, you are among the rich. We disagree with this. We believe these tax reliefs targeted at ordinary people in order to improve their everyday lives and to improve the ability to live on their own income are positive. Starting a debate where one later, like any tax relief goes automatically to those who are the richest in this society, is completely wrong. In addition, it is important to stimulate business to invest more. It's important that we create values before anyone distributes values. We improve the depreciation rates for machines and ships. It is a little strange that this government warns against having too low depreciation rules, because then you can get overinvestments in different sectors, for example. in environmental technologies and renewable energy. While one in the oil industry depreciates an oil platform of six years, one windmill has to be depreciated for 16-17 years. It's no wonder you have a huge pace of investment in oil, while it's still hanging a little bit on some of the industry side. We set up several seed funds to stimulate innovation. We are creating a number of engagements in industrial research in green technologies, environmentally friendly energy technologies, the use of gas and petroleum-oriented research. We are taking action to reduce border trade in order to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian groceries. But in addition, we want changes to be made to framework conditions, such as: Norwegian industrial enterprises that will invest in the use of gas in Norway can actually invest in Norway instead of being sent to Qatar. We believe that our policy has an impact. We think it's better that people go to work than that they're in a hospital queue. We think it's better that they go to work than that they become a client at Nav's. That's why we're giving 1.5 billion. Dr more for increased patient treatment in Norwegian hospitals, both public and private, but we also purchase services abroad. We're increasing the appropriations for rehabilitation, for psychiatry and drug care. We remove the employer’s fee for apprentices. We're strengthening the Nav job strategy by 600 million. kr, measures for jobseekers with 450 million. kr. Permanent work will strengthen by 229 million. kr, work clearance fee of 300 million. kr. All of this we do because we want to achieve a goal, that is, that fewer people go on a daily allowance, fewer people receive sick pay. That means that when we have more people at work, they'll pay more in taxes. At the same time, they do not receive social security benefits from the public. So we're downgrading the appropriations for sick pay and day pay. And let me underline to those in the Workers' Party who have a little difficulty understanding it: we don't reduce benefits, but we make it possible to go to work rather than depend on transfers from the state. That is why we can downgrade the appropriations, because fewer people accept benefits. I guess the government doesn't think there's any such connection when we look at the red-green play in the last few days. In this case, it explains why hospitals are continually underfunded, because the government does not believe that more money is producing better results. Housing policy is important. The government has led a restrictive land policy. They intensify the possibility of financing dwellings in the private market and introduce technical requirements that favour housing. The Progress Party will liberalise land policy and give municipalities greater scope for action. But we're also doing steps that make the housing market better balanced. Especially within student homes, Stortinget can make active grips. The government has talked about the construction of 2,000 student homes, but maybe next year. The Progress Party proposes it in this year's budget. It will help the students, and it will help with the balance of the housing market. We want to expand infrastructure so that housing and job markets are better connected and commuter time is reduced. That is why we are betting on public transport and intercity trains. We're not taking dividends from the NSB, and we're betting on short sea shipping. We're going to spend $900 million. kr more to the public companies, so that they can build up material and set up several routes, and we suggest that employers' funded collective cards be tax-free from 1 July. The government itself has estimated that 175 000 of today's drivers will then travel collectively, not because they are whipped at it through the ban on parking and increased tolls and stuff, but because they get an economic stimulus. It will mean a lot to get rid of the queues that are in and out of the big cities in Norway today. We're setting up a state investment company to expand railway, primarily intercity. If you reduce commuter time, it will be more attractive for people in the eastern region to live in Hamar, Skien and Halden and the areas between them. But as long as we have today's funding method, this project will not be realized in many decades. We have to realize it in ten years. So we're betting a lot on the way. The government must be commended for having increased the appropriations – we will not put that under the chair. But it doesn't make sense when part of this funding is going to use tolls, where one is borrowing money that's expensive abroad instead of using the oil wealth that we already have, but that we're borrowing cheaply to the rest of the world today. It is an economic cost for our children that we expose road projects that everyone agrees should be built. The government itself has given figures that show that if we had spent money building one kilometer of road in 1998 instead of saving the money in the oil fund, and taken them out today to build the same kilometer, we would not have got one kilometer of road, we would have gotten 0.74 kilometers. This means that speeding up profitable road projects is not stealing money from our children, but giving them better roads and at the same time not spending extra money on our children, as today's government does. So the government boasts that they spend 100 billion dollars. kr more in a 10-year period for road investments than one previously provided. That's very good. But there is no one in this room who has protested against it. The problem is that one has a rule of action that was initially to go to infrastructure, research and framework conditions for business. During the same ten-year period, 1644 billion will be available within the action rule. kr according to the government. Only 100 of them are used for infrastructure. I think the government should focus on that. This means that they are far from fulfilling the intentions of the rule of action that they themselves implemented. Then the Minister of Transport has been out last weekend boasting that a person spends more on road investment than the previous government. Yes, a total of 27 billion has been used. kr more on road investments of eight years than the government of Bondevik provided. But in the same period, an investor has over 3,000 billion. kr abroad. Then one has to ask, where does one get the most for that money? We want to invest a little more of them on better roads in Norway. Then there are some technical things with the budget that I want to point out – not because I'm just going to enjoy the Prime Minister, who thinks everything with numbers and stuff is joyous, but to show how the government is self-contradicting in some of the things they do. The government has, for example: the reduced environmental movement by establishing a climate action fund, to be financed with debt interest. What they don't say is that in this budget they remove the Cultural Memory Fund, which is funded exactly the same way, and the reason why they remove it, is that there's no appropriate way to fund cultural memory. Last year, they removed the Research Fund with the same justification that having funding methods through funds based on interest income is unpredictable. But all of a sudden, there's an excellent way to fund climate action. For me, it's all about tricking someone into thinking that you're betting, while you're actually feeding them with little money. We have also seen that the Labour Party in this debate is beginning to stop talking about how important the rule of action is because it supposedly gives us control of the economy. The rule of action controls how much money you can officially spend on the state budget, with an estimate of about 4 pst. But it doesn't control how much oil money you can take from the oil fund to invest in the oil industry, in the wind power industry, in much of the other, as long as there are state companies with state governments. So the rule of action limits what the Storting gets to prioritize our oil wealth, but it doesn't limit if you only have a state government that does it in a state company. I would say that the Storting should be above the state governments of state companies in terms of spending money. The government boasts that they spend 26 billion dollars. kr less than the action rule opens. That means that even if the Progress Party uses 10 billion. more, we are also well within the rule of action. That's what the government should take over when they criticize us. But what the government doesn't say is that Petoro gets 28 billion. kr to invest on Norwegian pedestal. So we spend more oil money into the Norwegian economy than the rule of action initially allowed, and that at a time when most things are going well in Norway. It says a little bit about a rhetoric that's not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e448	First, it is true that Petoro’s investments are not within the framework of the rule of action, as are Norwegian housing investments made by individuals — such as: has increased strongly – nor is it within the rule of action – and a number of other factors. In the case of the use of oil money for the Advance Party, it is much higher than 10 billion. Solvik-Olsen had to go out and prossro this weekend, when the SSB found out that they had forgotten some posts, and that the oil money used was at least 8 billion. higher than they themselves had estimated. But now leave it. I want to ask about the wealth tax. In March this year, Solvik-Olsen and a couple of other prominent party representatives promoted two proposals which, in sum, contributed to the removal of all property taxes from 1 January 2013. The property tax is known for approx. 15 B.C.E. So it was a quite significant proposal that was made in a single representative proposal from the Parliamentary Chair. But at the rate at which it is now added to the alternative budget, Solvik-Olsen will use approx. 15 years to eliminate taxes on wealth. Can Solvik-Olsen explain why a proposal of 15 billion. Is this not part of the alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e457	I think it's interesting when the worst Workers' Party can criticize us for, is that we don't remove taxes quickly enough. It says a little bit about our budget being well balanced. The reason we promoted that proposal in ours was that there were signals from both the Central Party and the Workers' Party that one was willing to look at the property tax. Then we tried to make sure that Stortinget took part in that debate and made suggestions as we did. Unfortunately, it turned out that Navarsete's visit to Aass Breggeri, where she promised to remove the property tax on working capital, was only a matter for the media; it was not intended to be dealt with in the Stortinget. When we didn't get a majority for that, we go back to the plan we've always had, and it's gradually removing the property tax and making sure that no one becomes zero tax collectors. So there I fully agree with Mr. Torgeir Micasen: everyone is going to contribute to the tax system. In the case of Petoro, as the representative first mentioned, there is a certain difference between a housing buyer and Petoro, because no housing buyer is allowed to use oil money when they invest in housing. But Petoro uses money from the oil fund. We take from the cash flow of oil revenues and we turn the money in the door, and that's a certain difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e468	I agree with that, of course, but now it's like both Petoro and some other investments on the base are super-wage investments that both I enjoy enriching the Norwegian community through the allocation of oil money, and not least the Progress Party has a lot of fun when they blow up the oil money use in their alternative budgets. I record that Solvik-Olsen says that he goes back to his plan when he does not get a majority for proposals he makes in Stortinget, as the proposals no longer apply. This is part of the progress party code that I thought was over, because Solvik-Olsen was supposed to make the Progress Party more edible in economic policy. What about proposals made by Solvik-Olsen and others on GTL fees, or 7 March this year, when they proposed to reduce fuel prices, or to introduce a time-limiting system in the public sector this year, or by 11 June at the latest, when it was proposed to have tax-free allowances for employers-funded monthly cards – a number of proposals included in the alternative budget, but not the wealth tax. Isn't this a little strange from the country's largest opposition party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e475	I registered that the Micaelsen said that he agreed, and then I wonder why he asks about it initially. So it's also a little weird that using more oil money in the oil sector is okay because it's so profitable, but it obviously creates the same pressure in the Norwegian economy if you use it on a Norwegian base, or if you use it in the mainland economy. But why is it that we accept more pressure in the Norwegian economy as long as the state makes more money? It's just as irresponsible if interest rates go up, that the state becomes the rich, while it goes beyond the poor. So that's where I totally disagree. What we have to look at is how we spend this money. As far as the taxes on wealth are concerned, we have never proposed in any government budget to remove it in one year. But when we saw the possibility that we could influence a little bit from the Stortinget by doing what the Workers' Party and the Centre gave the impression in the media, we took the chance. However, when the Workers' Party and the Centre do not follow up, we follow our plan. Our plan on GTL and on collective cards has always been to remove it as soon as possible. That's why we proposed it, because it's in line with our plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e484	The Progress Party, as it is said, proposes in its budget to reduce taxes and levies in the order of 23 billion. kr. The calculations show that those who earn the least and have the lowest income receive at least tax relief and that those who have the greatest income and wealth receive the most. Part of this tax code shall include, inter alia: is financed by cuts in the amount of the disability pension of SEK 2.3 billion. kr. So those who have so much health problems that they can't work must be involved in financing this tax haven. My question to Solvik-Olsen is: Where in the disability pension is the Progress Party going to cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e491	I have to ask if the representative has read what we are proposing. Firstly, we do not propose tax relief for those who have the most of them. We remove the minimum deduction, which benefits everyone. We don't make any changes to the top tax, which would benefit those who have the most from before, if you assume that those who have the most from before are those who earn about half a million dollars. In the case of property taxes, everyone who has assets today will receive $1,400 in tax relief with us. It is too bad with company owners in Norway who like to work because they have to take dividends from their companies to pay taxes on wealth to the state. It's unfortunate. But there are 100,000 fewer Nordics who have to pay taxes on wealth. So they're the ones that make the least sense. We don't start removing the wealth tax for those who earn the most. As far as daycare and disability benefits are concerned, we are not cutting the rates on disability benefits, but, as I mentioned in my speech, we are providing many billions of dollars for labour market measures and job training and that kind of thing. We believe, of course, that means that fewer people go unemployed and thus need disability benefits and daily allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e500	The centre party and the government want the elderly to have a real choice about where to go, even when care and care are needed. It requires flexibility and local knowledge and skills to follow up, so that individual elderly people who want to do so can live as far as possible, and that institutional space is ready when needed. A good community economy is crucial here. The government is now building up, together with the municipalities, a flexible care for the elderly, year by year. The party of progress will have a state-owned care for the elderly. According to certain medical criteria, the elderly should be equipped with a check for the purchase of services. Solvik-Olsen speaks contemptuously of public bureaucracy. How many annual works of those who today make an invaluable effort for the elderly will he have for oversight and control?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e509	I want the most of those who work with care for the elderly to provide services and care for the elderly, and that as few as possible move paper. This means that we need to use more ICT in the public sector. When today's government has made sure that one, for example, In the Oslo region, nurses who are on a fax watch are required because information from hospitals to old people’s centres and hospitals are being transferred on fax instead of digitally, saying a little about a government that is unable to use technology well enough, but that instead allows caregivers to be set to be IT hands. So the progress party is increasing the municipal effort on care for the elderly by 1.2 billion. kr. In total, we're strengthening the municipal economy by 3.6 billion. kr. We give commitment powers that allow you to build more hospitals than the government spends, and we spend money so that we can also operate them. Then it's true that we have a state-owned piece-of-the-counter financing on this. However, services are still to be provided locally by municipalities and by private actors meeting the requirements imposed by the State. So you will continue to have the local care of the Progress Party, but you ensure that you avoid discrimination between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e518	The representative of Solvik-Olsen began his speech by saying that the alternative budget of the Progress Party is a good budget – focusing on security, freedom and more action. That is good words, but it is the emphasis of these that is crucial, because it is so that freedom and security in some policy areas can move in their own direction. In alcohol policy, for example: security and freedom draw in their own direction. For the Christian People's Party, high alcohol charges are important — not high in themselves, but high because we know that it helps to reduce consumption and also harm to individuals, to the family and to society in general. The party of progress has a different view. In the 2013 budget, the Advance Party cuts the taxes on beer and wine by 14 p.m., but you don't do it on spirits. My question is: at least in the case of spirits, if you do not cut the fee by 14 pst, you can see that it has something to do with adverse effects. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e530	As an accomplice, I can say from my own observations that too much alcohol can do something about people's behavior beyond the evening. Too much alcohol can also have very serious adverse effects on a person over time, and it can destroy families. That's why it's a very serious area that we have to do something with. But the Progress Party doesn't necessarily think that higher prices do anything about the abuse. This means that you transfer consumers to other channels where they buy, especially border trade and tax-free. That is why we have said that we need to reduce some of the charges that encourage people to travel across the border today instead of shopping in Norwegian shops. But we're very focused when we say that we want to reduce the taxes on beer and wine, we want to reduce them on snuff, but not on tobacco and alcohol. We can say that this is a good starting point for cooperation for a new bourgeois government to move the country in a better direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e537	I see in the alternative budget of the Progress Party that it is proposed to privatise the NRK. The NRK shall no longer be the channel it is, but it shall be commercially funded and privatised. It could be tempting to ask Solvik-Olsen about what plans you have for the NRK. Does not the Progress Party see that it is of great value that we have a large non-commercial government channel in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e544	To be more precise: the Progress Party suggests, is to initiate a process where one looks at how one can privatize parts of, or whole, the NRK and split it up, preferably in different companies. This is to ensure the quality of the NRK, because it is very good in the NRK for both children and young people, for those who are politically interested or culturally interested, or for those who want commercial programs. So it's important to take care of the quality that NRK delivers. But the Progress Party believes that competition in the media market strengthens all parties. Having an actor that's guaranteed its revenues through license, no matter what they deliver, we believe that we're going to weaken the NRK in relation to the potential they actually have. There are an incredible number of good journalists – a bit too many of them are red, and it becomes visible in some of the reports they make – and overall very well from the NRK. But we think we can create even more values, even more entertainment, even more social debate if the NRK is organized in a slightly different way than today. It's not to undermine the NRK, but it's to enhance diversity. I also think that when you have channels like TV 2, P4 and others, it shows that you can deliver in a different way than under license.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e549	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e552	Late last night, I came home from Brussels. Meetings with other European politicians who are struggling with the debt and job crisis are a strong reminder of how privileged we are in Norway. Most of us have a job to go to and welfare schemes that catch us when we need to. As a nation, we have great natural resources, a resilient business and money on book, which gives us a good starting point and great opportunities. At the same time, you can quickly become blind if you just sunbathe. Also in our welfare community there are people who fall outside, such as children and young people who don't learn to read and write properly in primary school and fall from high school, young people who get untrained at an age when they should be on their way into work, people with drug problems or mental health challenges that remain in line to get help or never get the follow-up they should be entitled to. I don't think the government lacks good intentions. The problem is dry ideas and lack of implementation. If we are to ensure that all children learn to read, write and calculate properly, you must, as the Right, give priority to what is most important, namely good teachers, and not, like the red-green, anything else. If we're going to get the number of young people disabled, you have to, like the right, dare to make demands and make better sense, and not like the red-green belief that Nav can solve everything. If we are to help people with drug problems or mental health challenges, we must, as the Right, give priority to the care and psychiatry, not as the red-greens put down good places that could help many. Of course, one state budget cannot solve all the challenges. But all small and large measures must be part of a strategy to solve challenges and create opportunities. In the Right’s Alternative Budget, we present two main strategies – a strategy for a well-being that works, where more people can get treatment faster, where we raise the weakest and help more people from social security to work and a strategy for knowledge and competitiveness that can create and secure Norwegian jobs and build Norway as a knowledge nation. In our alternative budget, we present concrete measures to bring down the far too long health cows. We succeeded the last time we were in government. Then the health cows went down. With the red-green health cows have gone up. We set aside money for the purchase of private capacity, so that 20,000 more people can get treatment next year. The welfare sector depends on warm hands and competent staff. In our alternative budget, we propose increased means of empowerment so that unskilled people can become professionals and more generalists can become specialists. Russo and psychiatry are prioritised under the red-green. We maintain earmarked funds to ensure care, and we increase the appropriations to ensure more better help. Work is well-being for the individual, and work creates well-being for the community. Since 2008, employment among disabled people has fallen and only last year increased the number of disability pensioners under the age of 30 by 10 pst. The right presents a comprehensive strategy to provide new opportunities for young people with disabilities and to better facilitate the provision of services for people with disabilities in the workplace. As a society, we must make demands on those who receive support. This is particularly true of young social welfare recipients. If you have a right to support, you should of course get support, but you must also have an obligation to give something back. This is why the Right launches a project – work for young people on social assistance – in its alternative budget. Municipalities that have carried this out see that the cost of social assistance is falling, and that the number of young people who have returned to work is rising. The right has new ideas and better solutions to bring down health cows and get more from social security to work. After seven years of red-green rule, there has been no lack of political outbursts from the government, but implementation power. Welfare is borne by the labour force, and increased well-being must be financed by increased labour input. In recent years, the growth in our productivity has fallen, and it is now lower than in our trading partners. At the same time, we grant ourselves more well-being and higher wages. While other countries are being forced to change, cut costs and innovation, we are in the process of facing strange challenges that can make our jobs and our economy more vulnerable. Therefore, the Right considers that Norway needs a strategy for knowledge and competitiveness. When others get cheaper, we have to work smarter. We have to lift ourselves up and stretch further. For seven years, the Workers' Party has left the Swedish Labour Party to run the knowledge policy in Norway. The result is that the government has prioritised everything other than what we know creates a better school – that is, to make sure that our good teachers get even better. The good teacher balances social differences and lifts all students. Therefore, the Right proposes more than a doubling of the number of teachers to receive continuing education. We let the state take a greater part of the bill, and we set aside money to raise the quality of the training and the means to develop new career paths for the best teachers, so that we keep them in school. While the red-greens took a resting-point in higher education and have downgraded research for three out of four years in this ageing period, the Right will be investing in both latitude and peaks in higher education and proposing nearly one billion in research and development. The right has the ambition that Norway will develop some of the world's best universities, but then we must also be willing to invest in it. It does the right in its alternate budget. Increased investment in infrastructure – roads and public transport – and targeted tax reductions that make working and investing in Norwegian jobs more profitable are important measures in the Right’s strategy for knowledge and competitiveness. That's why the Right proposes 1.2 billion. kr extra for better and safer roads. We're opening up more OPS projects so we can speed up road construction. Today's tax system rewards consumption and penalties saving and investment in Norwegian jobs – it has been demonstrated in figures both from the OECD and from the Ministry of Finance. It is unreasonable that pensioners and others who have paid off the debt on the house and have some money on book have to use their savings to pay taxes on wealth. Equally unfair is the fact that owners of small and medium-sized enterprises have to cap their enterprises for capital in order to pay taxes on wealth to the State. It weakens the diversity of private ownership and Norwegian jobs. This has also been understood by LO leader Roar Flåthen, the Minister for Industry, the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Municipal Affairs. They've all talked about the adverse effects of property taxes. LO leader Roar Flåthen told Dagens Näringsliv in the autumn of 2011 that the property tax could threaten Norwegian industrial development and Norwegian jobs. Roar Fleethen spoke at that time almost like a Right-Man. But the right does something about it. This is why we are proposing reliefs that will motivate more people to save and invest in Norwegian jobs. Right have new ideas and better solutions to get more knowledge in school and to create safe jobs. After seven years of red-green rule, there has been no lack of government output, but implementation power. Ten months before the next elections, we can see that the bourgeois parties have gathered on more than what the red-green parties agreed in ten months before the previous elections. We actually see that part of what the red-green parties agreed before 2005, they're now breaking up. It concerns both the level of taxation and the EEA Agreement. In the autumn of 2005, the red-green parties were able to gather on a handful of comments and three-four proposals in the financial position, while the bourgeois parties have promoted a series of proposals to strengthen volunteering, to focus on research, to stimulate private savings, to modernise the public sector, and to raise the weakest in the health sector. Today, the civil parties in the Health Committee have promoted a further 13 joint proposals to improve the health system. With that, I would like to address the proposals on which the Right is the proposer or the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e598	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will take the view that the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, too, intended to bring up the proposals on which the Progress Party is or is co-sponsored. - Then the president will take it into consideration. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e605	The representative, Mr. Sanner, opened his speech by saying that priority needs to be given. I agree. But the right's alternative budget, above all, bears the mark, is the priority of tax relief. During the presentation of the Right Programme, Bent Höie stated that the Right intends to remove the property tax, to remove the inheritance tax, and to abolish the property tax – at the same time, Höie said that the tax principle should continue to apply. Last week, Erna Solberg stated that the Right will not remove the property tax until an alternative model is in place. The right has been in opposition for seven years. This is the last budget presented in the period, and there has been plenty of time to come up with an alternative model. It hasn't been done. Today we read that the Ministry of Finance has been asked for help, but it seems to be helpful. So my question is, When has the Right intend to clarify with Norwegian voters how to ensure that the richest also contribute over the tax bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e616	Let me just first say that the richest contribute over the tax bill. The right agrees that taxes should be taxed according to their ability. Those who have the most have to pay the most. That's why the Right Income Tax does not lower the highest income we're raising. Tax reductions are an instrument for the right – no target. It is a tool to make working more profitable, and it is a tool to strengthen Norwegian jobs. Then we have said that as we step down the wealth tax, which affects saving and investment in Norwegian jobs, we will also look at other instruments. Today’s Business Today, I have pointed out both the protection deduction and tax rules that promote tax planning, which must be looked at. The right has a responsible approach to changing the tax system. It must be properly investigated, justified on a professional basis. You saw how it went when the government was going to make changes to the shipping tax, without it being properly investigated. It ended up in the Supreme Court, and the government and the state lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e625	Removing the shielding deduction will hardly affect the number of zero-taxors in Norway. If you remove the property tax, the thousand richest on average will get a $3.7 million tax bill. kr. If you remove the shielding subtraction, that means an increase of $200,000 on average. But it is only to note that after seven years of opposition, the Right has not been able to come up with a model that will ensure that the richest also contribute. So the representative named Sanner's statements to Today's Business today – and they're interesting. He says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘But no such system changes are made in an office in Stortinget. All such changes must be the subject of a proper professional assessment.’» So the Right can't present a solution to how the richest are going to contribute over the tax bill because it's too complicated, but for example. To increase the cost of kindergarten for all the country’s young children’s parents, it is only possible to do – or reduce health businesses, which will affect more than 100,000 employees, that is not too complicated for it to be done in an office in the Grand Duchy. Can the representative Sanner explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e639	I don't think it's that complicated. I have, as I said, pointed out some of the measures that the Right believes we need to look at. We do not want to go into the same pitfall as the government and the state did, when they lost in the Supreme Court after they had not carried out a proper enough assessment of the shipping tax system. So tax changes have to be properly assessed. But it's not that if you step down the property tax, the money will be gone. It appears almost as if the Workers' Party believes that the money is being lost because socialist politicians are not getting their hands on them. On the contrary, this money is left in Norwegian companies. They remain in Norwegian enterprises and can secure investment and secure Norwegian jobs. Then I must say that I am amazed that the Workers' Party is only concerned with combating wealth and combating those who create jobs. Why is the Workers' Party not concerned with lifting the weakest? There have been several poor people while the Workers' Party has been running. The social differences in schools have increased while the Workers' Party has been running. The number of disabled people at work has decreased while the Workers' Party has been running. It should also involve the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e650	There are few things Norway can do that have global significance and with respect for the great work of the Financial Committee: there are also few things in the Financial Committee's position that have global significance. But I want to ask a question related to one of the few things that actually have it. The government's climate and forest project has left so big a mark on it and has shown so good results that it has global significance. Looking at Brazil, we know that the emission reductions resulting from Brazil's reduction in its deforestation are far exceeding the total emissions of the state of Norway each year. This is a continuous success that also means that we are able to take care of the rich plant and animal life that is in the rainforest. My question to Jan Tore Sanner is, why would the Right cut 750 million? kr in the world's most effective climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e660	Let me first say that I agree that conserving the rain forest is an effective climate action. But it's not just the government's project. I want to remind the representative Heidi Sørensen that it was the Right and the other bourgeois parties that pushed the government to lift rainforest as an important project. Today, this is a joint project, not just the government's project. We accept the commitments that lie in the climate agreement. When we have reduced the appropriations slightly to next year, it is because there are large sums that have not been used – almost 2 billion. kr – as a note of debt in the Bank of Norway. Let me put it this way: let's use the cash principle, so that we give the money as needed. But we agree with the climate agreement, and we are going to grant the money that will result from it – we will follow it up in the future budgets – but for 2013, we think it is possible to reduce something.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e667	It surprises me that the Right, which writes in its comments that we are in favour of results-based assistance, is attacking the most consistent results-based project we have. When there's money on notes, it's because Brazil has reduced deforestation. We follow up our obligations and pay in the form of bills. Then the actual disbursement is made to projects, which should not lead primarily to reduced climate emissions, but to development – because one has to do something other than deforestation. In my head, the Right is more concerned that the money paid in compensation is spent as quickly as possible, instead of bringing the emissions down as quickly as possible. The consequence of the cut of 750 million. kr is that we may not be following the commitments to Brazil, perhaps not to Indonesia, and at least it will be much harder to conclude new, further agreements to continue working on the world's most effective climate action. How do you defend it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e674	The representative may not have listened to what I actually said. I said that we accept our obligations regarding the conservation of rainforests. But when we find that there is money on the book, that the money has not been used up, we believe that next year's appropriations can be reduced somewhat in relation to the government's budget. It is not that where SV wants a little more money than the Right will, they attack, or oppose, the measure. No, we just notice that there is still money on the book, there are unused funds – well, then we can spend a little less. But we stand by our obligations under the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e681	The right focusses on the competitiveness of business, and that is important. Norway’s competitiveness at a time of considerable money is demanding – that is just the first letter. Many international experiences show that countries and people have eroded and lost competitiveness when one has been in Norway’s situation. The main challenge facing this Norway is that it should be able to bear good days. Experience has shown that the social position of the population is determined: to go into action — Cohesion Norway — and to stimulate long-term thinking. It is difficult to get an overview of the whole of the Right Budget, but what we see is that on crucial points it is against this social attitude. Why does the right do not understand that if solidarity is not guaranteed, the attitude one here adopts has consequences for people's behaviour and contributes to greater costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e688	The first introductory remarks of the representative Lundtägen's reply warmed me up. I fully agree that we must show restraint, and we must manage the great oil resources we have. But I'm responding to the fact that the representative Lundteg must be the one who defines what is the Norwegian community position. The right is in front of the Nordic model, and the Nordic, or Norwegian, model, represents some values we stand together in Norway across the political dividing lines. Maintaining relatively small differences is a strength on which we want to build. Tripartite cooperation in working life is something we want to build on. But then – and I guess that’s what the representative is responding to – we also have some proposals that stimulate saving and proposals that stimulate investment in Norwegian jobs. I really thought the Center Party agreed, and not disagree, with us that it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e697	Saving and investing is good. It's a trademark of a healthy society. What is the problem for the right, however, is that one says that, among other things. is for tax purposes by capacity. A broadcaster that is for tax by ability, but when you're going to practice it, it's the opposite. Right is the foremost party to attack the progressive income tax – the more income you have, the more ability you have to pay taxes. Right is the foremost batch to attack the property tax, which is one of two main pillars in tax according to the ability principle as introduced early in the 1900s. Do not understand Right that the signals you send out include: in the case of taxes on wealth, does one facilitate greater injustice? Injustice provides forces that require and require and require, and therefore the most powerful must go ahead. Why isn't that Right View?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e706	It is possible that there is disagreement within the Center Party, but I remember very well that the Council of State Liv Signe Navarsete was at Aass Brewery and spoke strongly against the property tax that affects Aass Brewery and the owners of Aass Brewery. When the Right wants to drop the property tax, it is for Norwegian — I stress: Norwegian — employment and private savings. It is not that the Right is in favour of tax reductions for those with the highest income. No, the Right represents the progressiveness of the Norwegian tax system. Those who earn the most also have to pay the most. But if we're to create a society with less differences, we also have to promise. Then we also have to make sure that we lift up at school, make sure that everyone learns to read, write and calculate, that we get more disabled people into work and that we get the number of young people unemployed. Creating small differences isn't just about attacking on top, it's also about lifting those that fall outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e713	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e716	The 2013 state budget is a radical budget, which is based on two pillars: that everyone should have a job and on the environment and justice. It's very good with the Norwegian economy. Compared to over 10 pst. unemployment in Europe, we have unemployment of less than 3 pst. in Norway. We have low interest rates, and we have high growth rates. This is a situation that is in stark contrast to the situation in Europe, and in particular to the countries of the south. They are facing several crises at the same time: economic crisis, euro crisis and not least a social crisis. The impact on the population is widespread welfare and high unemployment. And there are those who have the least from before, who have to bear the heaviest burden. That anyone who wants to have a job is the basic plan of the distribution policy. And in the distribution policy, that different people should have equal opportunities, is, to be a little solemn, the light and the way of the red-green government. It is important that the policy should work. The three most important indicators we have on the fact that it works — and I see that some parties are calling for implementation — are, first of all, that there have been 340,000 new jobs in recent years, many of them in the private sector, and, second, that differences in Norway have fallen. It is a development that is quite unique to Norway, compared to the rest of Europe. The third is that we are developing the welfare state, with more employees in kindergartens, more employees in schools, in hospitals, and in transport and transport. This is implementation. Therefore, other countries look to Norway. And so the right-hand side's proposal for billions of tax credits to those who have the most of it will end just this. When the bourgeois parties crashed last, the job growth was about zero. When you cut taxes, there are fewer hands in the care sector, and the differences are increasing dramatically. That is why I am pleased that none of what the bourgeois parties propose today will be adopted. The country receives a budget that is good for the country and for distribution, employment and development. I'll mention some areas that SV prioritize. The knowledge field gets an increase of 1.9 billion. kr 2013 and 3250 new places of study will be set up. More teachers are to be employed in high school and the quality of kindergartens is to be improved. It is a very important investment for the future. Our most important asset is not oil wealth, it's human capital. Therefore, it is so important to give priority to growth and education. We continue to prioritize research in 2013 to achieve overall real growth in public research efforts of 2.2 pst. In total, 27.4 billion will be used. SEK for research and development in 2013. It's a real growth of 32 pst. from 2005 to 6,7 billion. kr more than in 2005. The investment in children has been historically high during this period of government. We've got 60,000 new kindergartens. The next year will focus on increasing quality, more pre-school teachers and lower prices in kindergartens. In the years to come, SV will give more priority to kindergarten admissions this year. It means an additional and necessary boost for the kindergarten sector. Child protection is strengthened, with the priority of the children who need it the most. Two hundred ninety million. kr was strengthened by municipal child protection in the period 2011-2012. In 2013, municipal child protection is further strengthened by an earmarked allocation of 205 million. kr. It will give about 270 new jobs. Over the three-year period 2011–2013, we have strengthened municipal child protection by nearly half a billion dollars. That's the biggest promise in municipal child protection over 20 years of age. Next year's budget will have a good environmental profile. The climate message will be followed up. The appropriations for the railway increase by almost 15 pst, to 14.4 billion. kr. That means we've almost doubled the appropriations for the railway and tripled the railway investments during this government period. Public transport also has a significant increase of 250 million. to focus more on the reward scheme for public transport and less car use in urban areas. That's an increase of 64 pst. from this year. At the same time, we allocate 50 million. kr to bet on walking and cycling roads. It means less queue, less pollution and more environmentally friendly transport. The national road and rail transport plan is not only followed up to next year, it will be overfilled by 1.5 billion. kr. Most welfare policies are implemented in municipalities — in primary schools, in kindergartens, and not least in care for the elderly. The financial framework for the municipal sector is therefore one of the most important budget headings in the State budget. In the period 2005 to 2012, the revenues of municipalities have increased by 61 billion. kr, or 2,7 pst. every year. The framework is further increased by 6.8 billion to next year. kr, of which 5 bn. kr in free income. It will provide a basis for continued growth in the provision of services to the population. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world and is ranked the world's best country to live in. Our vast wealth also demands us. We must show solidarity with those who live and live in poverty, and it does millions of people. The aim of this government was to increase the aid budget to 1 pst. of gross national income. The allocation of international development assistance is increased by 2.4 billion. NOK, so we get to 1 pst. of GNI in 2013. That means we'll spend 30 billion on next year. kr on assistance. The objective of the Soria Moria declaration, what we promised, we have followed up. The allocation for climate and forest action is increased by 400 million. kr – the most important international climate action we can participate in. The economic effort made in this budget — growth in all key welfare areas — would not have been possible if we had prioritised tax cuts, as the Right and the Advance Party have done in their alternative budgets. What the opposition is proposing today is irrelevant to the future. The opposition is on its way into the past with horses and carts. Removal of property taxes, increased entry for the top tax: the Progress Party proposes a tax cut of 100 billion. kr – tax cuts that benefit those with the highest income and the highest tax capacity. It means greater differences between people, that means the risk of reintroduction of the zero-tax payers, as we had in the past, and less money for public welfare. It's a policy that makes the streets of Greece and Madrid burn. The parties cut into important well-being goods, such as sick pay and daily allowances. The advance party cuts the disability allowance by 2.3 bn. NOK 500 million and over 500 million. kr for lone dependants – very unsocial cut. It means increasing differences. In addition, the parties in agriculture, assistance and important measures for integration are cutting back, and we will receive fewer receptions and a much more inhumane integration policy. This is another course for the country – a policy for increasing disparities and for weakening important welfare systems, cutting aid and a more inhuman integration policy, as I mentioned. The opposition is on its way into the past with horses and carts. It is these parties, with this policy, the Left and the Christian People's Party have decided to ally with, and with which they will form government. Maybe they can slow down. But at any rate, the horse is standing and running and pointing in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e755	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e759	When the representative Hansen talks about Greece and the problems there, you should listen, because he's probably got some good advice from his socialist friends in that country. The Progress Party presents an alternative proposal based on security – security for those who have the least in society, freedom to choose which school to go to, which nursing home to use, and the capacity for action to expand this country, among others. on the road side, which is a huge need. We have sent this to the Statistical Central Bureau. Hansen has criticised the use of oil money from the Advance Party before. The central statistical agency says that the exchange rate will remain unchanged, that inflation will fall by 1.2 p.m., that unemployment will fall, and that interest rates will fall. Then my question is simple and simple: Do Hansen and SV believe in the Statistical Central Bureau?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e768	Yes, we believe in the Statistical Central Bureau, but the representative Svendsen forgets to say that certain assumptions have been made in the questions asked to the Statistical Central Bureau. The important thing is – he mentioned transport, transportation, which I know the representative Svendsen is concerned about – that we have more than doubled, yes, tripled, investment in transport during this government period compared to what was the case when the bourgeois parties in the Bondevik government cooperated with the Progress Party. We grant more to road and rail in one year than the Cooperation Government and the Progress Party did in four years. Investment in transport is probably the area that has increased everyone, most of all in this period of government, and we are very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e773	It was very strange here. Taxes for those who have the most from before: I actually thought you had learned more now, after reading the alternative budgets, but it obviously hasn't been done by the representative Hansen. Therefore I will recommend him to do so. Increase in minimum deductions, increase in the base rate for property taxes, tax exemptions for collective cards, tax exemptions for training cards: Is this what the representative believes is for those who have the most of them? Can he prove that it is those who already have the most who will be relieved by the Advancement Party? Has he read the alternative budget for the Progress Party? The earth doesn't get flat even if there are repeated claims about it all the time. I would ask and recommend to the representative Hansen now to provide evidence that the tax reliefs offered by the Progress Party in this year's budget are tax reliefs to those who have the most from the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e782	We need to document that. I can't do it over here, but we're going to show tables that document it. Clearly, the tax relief – the relief of property taxes, the relief of income taxes, the relief of inheritance taxes – gives tax relief to those who have the most of them. Once again, the Progress Party's policy of reducing taxes and levies in the order of 100 billion. kr for the next four years, is a priority of a completely different policy from that of the red-green government and will lead, namely to build up welfare services in the areas of health, care, transport, kindergartens and child protection – a completely different policy with a completely different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e789	I have a question related to the results that SV has now been in government for almost eight years. I am not in doubt that the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen wants us to have a health care system with equal access to everyone, regardless of the economy, but the fasitite after almost eight years of government SV is that we have never had a health care system where people have been more dependent on the thickness of the wallet. Over 300000 now have private health insurance, and 27 pst. by those who are insured in one of the companies, have used the insurance during the last year. We see that never before have so many paid directly to get the necessary health care. The government itself, in response to the Røjres Storingsgruppe, says that in the next year, one will now have a record 350,000 with private health insurance. What does it say about the government budget that has now presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e794	We are satisfied with the results of the health policies that have been followed in the years we have been in government. Treatment provision in all areas — in somatic settings, specialist health services,drugs, psychiatry, rehabilitation — has increased and more people are receiving treatment today than they did in 2005. The challenge is that needs are also increasing, in many areas even more than we can build up the supply. There's a challenge. Our goal with the policy is to expand the public health service across the country, wherever you live, and regardless of the size of the moneybook. We won't be able to achieve that if we had been committed to the policy that the Right does, namely, to prioritize the privatisation of the healthcare system. Then you get a good offer in the big cities and a bad offer in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e801	A large number of patients who are referred to public health care treatment today are also referred to private individuals with whom health care companies have an agreement. They are told that they must wait for one month, two months, a half year to receive treatment, because there are quotas on how many can be treated. They are told at the same time that if they want to pay themselves, they can come in within a week, because there is no capacity available. It is the day-to-day experience of patients as a result of SV’s health policy. Does Geir-Ketil Hansen think that the answer to avoiding a two-part healthcare system is still to rationalise health services and create allowances for people who have been granted the right to treatment of the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e808	I believe that the deadlines and deadlines for health care treatment should be maintained and maintained. If the public is unable to comply with those deadlines, they should be able to buy from the private. That's what politics has been like all along, and that's how it should be in the future. That the general picture is that people do not receive treatment when they are going to be wrong. Most are treated within deadlines, and in most areas waiting time is reduced. But there are exceptions, and what is mentioned here is not good enough. The time limits shall be kept and where the public cannot make offers within the time limit, the private person may be referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e815	The Christian People's Party today proposed a power cap for educational assistance. We're proposing to increase by 400 million. kr to correct a down-priority that has occurred since 2005, when the red-greens took over. Secretary-General Helen Bjørnøy of Plan Norway has aptly described it in the newspaper Dagsavisen on 25 September: ‘Children’s right to education provides in a very special way the basis for all other developments. Fortunately, therefore, the size of the population reacted in the spring of 2009 when education was not mentioned as a priority objective of government development policy. A unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs asked that ‘the proportion of Norwegian aid to the education sector should be increased’. The representative Hansen said he was pleased that nothing the bourgeois parties have proposed today will be adopted. I think there are many boys and girls in the poor country of the world who would be happy if the Christian People's Party's aid policy had been adopted, because it would have given them a future. Is this also irrelevant to the future, as the representative Hansen said in his statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e827	When I said that I am happy that the policies of the opposition party are not adopted, it is related to the considerable tax relief and the considerable amount of proposals for privatisation – a completely different course for the country than the policy of the red-green government. That is why I was pleased that it will not be adopted. On the issue of education assistance, focus is an important issue. What we have done with assistance is that we have increased the aid budget to 1 pst. of national income, i.e. 30 billion. kr. In this context, it is important to give priority to good aid policies. Education is, of course, an important part of this, and I fully agree with that. The Christian People's Party's problem is that it agrees more with the red-green government in aid policy than with its future partners Right and Advance Party, which will cut significantly. There's a big explanation problem for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e836	In the oral Question Time last Wednesday, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said that he was proud, but not satisfied with the efforts this government has made to follow up the promise to abolish poverty in Norway. Recent figures show that the number of children living in persistent poverty in Norway is 75 000 and has increased during this government. That's obviously proud of the Prime Minister. What is less reason to be proud of is that this state budget – for which Mr Hansen is voting today – does not have one concrete measure which means that the number of poor people will fall. At the same time, the Left promotes a number of proposals that we know will have an effect. That is what Mr Hansen and Mr SV are voting against. Is this something SV is proud of?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e844	I think I said in the debate on the distribution message in ours that the area relating to poor children is an area we are not satisfied with, and where there are major challenges ahead. Much has been done in this area, more money is spent on this than before, but there are still too many poor children in Norway. We're not satisfied with that. I just want to mention some of the important things we have done: the development of the kindergarten sector with over 60,000 kindergartens is of great importance to this area. The great effort we are making in the field of child protection will be of great importance in this area. In this area – as in other areas – the Left has an explanation problem when they choose to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party in the future, because the parties will cut in this area. Your tax policy will go beyond this area. They will prioritize those who have a lot of things already, and deprioritize those who have little. There's a challenge for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e853	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e856	Norway is on the right track. Make big changes in the political course. The red-green direction option that was launched in 2005 and passed on in 2009 is strong in the Norwegian people. However, the polls one year before the upcoming roll-up elections tell us that most people give more support to the direction than to the red-green parties behind the policy. Maybe it's so that many people believe the direction option is the same who's in government? That's wrong! The right hand side has e.g. warn them that they believe the privatisation of hydropower resources is more important than the preservation of the common ownership of these resources on which our society is built. The financial settings, which are the documents we are currently handling, refer to a number of examples in a different direction from that of the government of the day. The Right Party and the Progress Party will distribute billions in tax for the benefit of those who already have the most, and they will reverse the bias between groups and districts. They want a course conversion. They're going in the wrong direction. For the Central Party, the State budget for 2013 confirms that the decision to enter into mandatory government cooperation with the Labour Party and SV was correct. Through eight State budgets based on Soria Moria I and II, we have contributed year by year to the creation, work, well-being and smoothing of differences. We look forward to continuing the work through Soria Moria III. We're still insolent, we're going to reinforce and renew the course in a single area, but the direction is right. We believe that there is every reason to warn against alternatives we see will be difficult for too many in this long-term country both in the short and long term. Let me mention three points: Regional balance in construction and economic development is central to the Centre Party. We want to use the whole country. For us, it's good news that there's now population growth in 351 municipalities. It's in 50 pst. more municipalities than the numbers shown before the government change. The government has made it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. The removal of the audit obligation for smaller enterprises, the raising of the base deduction from property taxes and the raising of the capital ceiling for the establishment of limited liability companies are instruments of real estate. The agricultural message presented in spring, and not least the introduction of a percentage of the central agricultural product, provides for optimism and foresight in agriculture. Renewable energy investment through green certification and wind power provides, in addition to environmental benefits, new opportunities for work in many areas, similar to the tourism strategy. Secondly, education, health, care — community development. Eight years of targeted bets have produced great results. I had the joy of being a leader of the municipal committee between 2001 and 2005. I don't know one of the spokesmen who wanted the Right back in the Municipal Ministry when the Senterpartie took over there in the autumn of 2005. I haven't heard about it now either. Over 60 B.C.E. kr has been transferred to the municipalities, with the following for kindergartens, for the quality of the school and for 22,000 new ones added only in the municipal health service. Interaction reform is in progress, many more people are now experiencing treatment closer to where they live. Sickhouses today have 1.5 million more care and treatment than in 2005. We've gone from being a medium to being the best on multiple cancers. Thirdly, transport. It's a pleasure that there are now several parties that are taking the initiative to compete with the government for the highest licenses for transportation. While the increase in the licenses for transportation with the previous government was 6 pst., the corresponding number for today's government is 64 pst. With the facilities open or under work, 1000 km of new highway is the result. Once the railway facilities are completed, we will have 100 km of double tracks. More than 90 pst. by passenger train is now in route. The 2013 budget is responsible for the international and national economic situation. It is a new confirmation of the will to create value, renew, develop well-being and smooth out. I was a patient on the day the budget was presented. I followed the presentation on TV. With heavy international clouds as a backcloth it was strange to register that a few minutes after the financial speech there was a big question in the media: what does the state budget mean for the wallet of the individual of us? That's of course interesting. But many want the government budget to hold steps in the right direction for community and equivalency. We have a strong growth in the Norwegian economy. The target of 1 pst. GNI for development assistance thus requires a new 2.3 billion. kr. I am pleased that we can thus contribute to development among many who cannot even dream of our prosperity. The government is following up the plan for the escalation of the cultural promise and for the VAT compensation of voluntary organisations. It is encouraging to hear the positive review that is being given to the budget by the volunteers. The sport is satisfied with the conversion of the key. They'd expected a faster conversion, but they're not in doubt about the will and direction. Four games in this room say they will go to government change elections. The finance option is an exhibition window that shows how unbalanced they really are. The more they've written from each other than together. It's e.g. 20 B.C.E. kr in the difference between taxes. While the Christian People's Party announces an increase in taxes in relation to the government's proposal, and the Left wants green conversion, the Right and Advance Party will have large tax credits without green cutting. The most realistic government option, the Right Party and the Advance Party, gives the most prosperous in the country our reason to rejoice, at least if they prioritize own wallet. But the conversion of the tax level has its price. Adjustments to the bottom do not help for all when the tax level is reduced dramatically. These billions shall be covered by cuts that primarily weaken the distribution to those who have the least to live for. Government gets criticism for increasing the number of poor children. There is a strange feeling of criticism from a party that itself announces a policy that will give more poor people and a poorer distribution. Privatisation and postponing competition is an area that collects the Right and Progress Party. In the Center Party, we are not afraid of private solutions, but we don't think it's best in the health and care sector supply and private operations. On the other hand, we want stronger and more careful cooperation with non-profit organisations in this field. The government and non-profit sector signed earlier in the autumn an agreement to strengthen cooperation in the health and care sector. We think it's the way to go, both in terms of the services involved, and they add. The right-wing party's alternative budget shows that they want to reduce agricultural production and thereby weaken food production, rural areas and districts. They'll give the farmer greater freedom. What does it look like to mean? There's really reason to ask: "Freedom of what?" Well, to leave the industry, to abandon agriculture, and to sell the land to the highest bidder. It's so definitely another direction than the Center Party and the red-green ones. To sum up, it is that for 2013, the Centre Party had three main priorities in the budget. It was a strong community economy – we know what it means – in both small and large communities. Secondly, stronger transport. We'll hear more about what's going on later today, but it's good to know that while the previous national transport plans were not met by the government that was before us, the national transport plans that the red-green government is now taking care of are overfilling. And then, thirdly, the percentage – this customs duty, which means, in isolation, that one can base cost and price developments on the future also for certain agricultural products. And once again, it means increasing income on one side, but actually on the other side, e.g. that we can still have Jarlsberg cheese on the pizza.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e911	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e914	It's a little sad that one in his post spends so much time telling things about other parties that are not true. It's e.g. not true that the Right Party or the Advance Party wants to privatise the hydropower. We have not proposed that at this stage, it is not in the party programme of the Progress Party, nor should the Central Party give the impression that we mean it. Let's talk about something that's positive, for example. that the Progress Party wants to strengthen the local government sector by 3.6 billion. kr. So we both want the municipalities to feel better. The Progress Party also proposes that municipalities should be able to borrow money with the same credit claims and opportunities as the State is doing today. Today the state borrows money very cheaply, while the municipalities are not allowed to be under the wings of the state, although both are part of the public sector. This means that municipalities evenly have a much higher interest rate charge in the market than they needed. Will the Central Party be with the Advance Party when we work for municipalities to borrow money at the same interest rate as the State borrows money? It'll release 1-3 billion. kr in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e923	Firstly, further clarification is needed when it comes to the privatisation of hydropower. In fact, the party of progress has been out and airing something as essential as part-privatizing Statkraft. In the case of municipalities: the central party is to strengthen local self-government to ensure good local services, not only in cities but also in district municipalities. We have a good balance there today. The most important thing we can do is add additional resources to the municipalities. So here, 61 billion have been added over the last seven years. In addition, we distance ourselves from the return of corporation tax, which will make big differences between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e930	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa told me that when she was a municipal minister, there were no rapporteurs who wanted a civil servant back. That may well say more about the rapporteurs in the circle of the municipal minister than about what the rapporteurs want. The Progress Party has presented its alternative state budget. There is security for the weakest, for those who need the most help, for the poor, the freedom to choose what kind of nursing home you should have, what kind of school you should go to, and the power of action. Build up this country, in the form of roads, railways, etc.Oh, my God! As Minister of Transport, Meltveit Kleppa was constantly out there criticising the proposals of the Progress Party – they were irresponsible and would lead to one and the other. We've sent them in to the Central Statistical Bureau, which says: unchanged dollar rate, inflation down 1.2 p.m., unemployment down, interest down. Does Meltveit Kleppa believe in the Central Statistical Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e939	What the Party of Progress wisely failed to draw attention to is the fact that there are certain attachments attached to it. It is also the case that, on weekends, the Central Statistical Office has said that there are certain elements that they have overlooked. The important thing here is to set a direction for community and solidarity. I can't see that with the big taxes that the Progress Party will plan down here, for the benefit of those who already have the most. In the case of care for the elderly, the level to which the Party of Progress will apply shall be fine-tuned. It may mean – with the flexibility that exists today – that there are some older people who get a far worse offer with the Progress Party’s recipe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e948	In the Right's Alternative State Budget, we propose to change the tax on the sale of forestry property. The centre party contributes to the fact that a whole bunch of forest properties are simply unused and are not sold on, because the owners either don't make money on them or don't get the income they need. If you are going to buy a forest property from a farmer to run forestry, you are paying 50 pst at the worst. tax – thanks to the Senterpartiet – while for the neighbouring property, which is also forested, but which has a different regulatory purpose, you pay ordinary tax, 28 pst. What is it that will give priority to the Central Party in the context of the State budget to its proposal to increase forestry yields and the framework conditions for forestry users? What is it that just those who run forestry are going to have a completely different tax rate on the sale of property than those who sell neighboring property?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e957	Let me say two things. First of all, I have registered that the Right has committed itself very strongly and on a failing basis for a fee on sugary drinks. I have seen it as one of the most important things that Arve Kambe has ever faced in this budgetary process. I recommend he read the budget at that point better. Then he wants to see the health advice. Then to the forest. The Ministry of Agriculture has recently changed the rules for the sale of agricultural property. Forest is also part of the climate agreement and the solution there. And then we'll get back to the more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e966	I think it was a pretty bad answer, which bears the mark that the representative Meltveit Kleppa might have been the Council of State a little too long. My question was not about juice, it was about the sale of forest properties. [[Laughter]] It's something completely different. But as we're in on juice, the right has suggested halving the product fee on juice. It is as the representative Lundtigen says to Sogn Avis: juice should not have the same fee as sugar water and shower. There's something on the right that totally agrees. That is why we are following this in our budgets. It has no health effect; it only has a tax effect on behalf of the state. It affects large producers, such as Lerum in Sogndal, Hervik in Tysvær and other large niche producers, which may show that the centre party has been more eager to exempt the milk producers from the sugar levy than the fruit producers. It is poor district policy, it is bad health policy – and perhaps one of the reasons why it's crawling with centre party people who are now voting Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e974	What was important for me to say was that right here is wrong. When it comes to the proposal they have made, the product charges are already taken away for some products. The sale of less sugary products has increased following the submission of this charge — on health advice. But back to the woods. I don't want there to be a misunderstanding here, that I don't know the difference between juice and forest. [[Laughter]] There are single elements in all budgets that you can look at more closely. How the forest is to be managed in the future — including the hall of forest heritage — is something that we come back to. But in general when it comes to taxes, there are many points on which the Right Party and the Center Party disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e981	I'm not going to talk about juice or forest, I'm going to talk about school. To create the world's best school, it doesn't just keep spending a lot of money, you also have to spend it right. In recent years, the government has consistently prioritised errors by spending billions of hours of instruction for the very least, to introduce the full-day school. The Christian People's Party believes that the school's most important resource is the teacher. That's why we think we should spend the big money on the teachers. Increased teacher density, more ambitious efforts at continuing education, the launch of mandatory mentoring and better and more practical secondary education are some of the things that we use instead. My question to the Center Party, as a good centermate, is, what's the reason why the Center Party believes it's important to spend 1.7 billion. kr in all-day school, instead of spending money on e.g. more teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e992	Yes, I can confirm that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are united in many things, both in terms of district, distribution, relations with the voluntary sector, etc. – and also when it comes to securing a better schooling. So it's like the whole day ball isn't inserted. But there is a need to strengthen the contents of the school, follow up the weakest students not least and follow up other groups in the school, and get more subjects in place and thus expand the number of hours. In addition, we now see a happy development of this investment in the school, that recruitment to the teaching profession is greatly increasing. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e999	Today, the representative Meltveit Kleppa and the Central Party are voting to change the rates of property tax, so that commercial property, i.e. working capital, is subject to increased taxes on wealth. The left will in the long run remove the entire wealth tax and, of course, vote against the proposed tightening. But the central party votes, the tradition believes, against what they're for. Could I have an explanation of vote, please?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1004	The representative will be happy to receive that. It is not that the Central Party will remove the property tax. On the contrary, we believe that the wealth tax is a very important distribution policy tool in this country. But in government, we've been quite conscious of changing the arrangements of the property tax. This means that the bottom deduction has increased from NOK 151 000 – when the left was put in government – to NOK 870 000 next year. This means that there are over 500,000 fewer people paying taxes on wealth today. There is no doubt that among them there are many self-employed persons who are thus exempt from tax on their capital. Then we go on along that trail. But redistribution is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1009	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1012	It is a pleasure for me to present an alternative state budget on the part of the Christian People's Party, with a clear Christian-democratic central profile. To build up under the center replicas before here, I just want to remind the representative Meltveit Kleppa that we also stand together not to want property taxes on working capital. Maybe in common we could get something done about it in a closer relationship. We will build a society based on our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage. For us, it means three main pillars: human dignity, close love and stewardship. It carries our priorities. I want to develop two main policy areas on my part. The first is the family. We want a new family policy. We just want it to be a bet area for the government again, if we get in position to do that. We give the family greater freedom of choice, because we think it's good for families, good for children and good for society. We actually view the family as more than a production unit, which has a solid self-esteem. We're proposing a new tax discount of NOK 5000 per child. We propose a cash support that increases freedom of choice, both for parents who have one-year-olds and parents who have two-year-olds. We make it more flexible in the kindergarten sector, with two main recordings per year. So let's do something about the one-time benefit of birth and adoption, which I've understood also the red-greens are concerned about. There is a heavenly injustice today, which we want to do something about in our alternative budget. When the government laid out their budget, they said that they were investing in hospitals. If I don't remember completely wrong, the Prime Minister made hospital places a major concern for this government before the last deposit elections. 12 000 new sick homes were promised by 2015. At the entrance to the next year, status is 1000 new places. We can certainly say that the election promise and the Prime Minister will be broken. We have cooperated with the government in this field on a guarantee of dignity, which the government has broken. We take our agreements seriously and propose 3,750 new places for next year. Let's do that, for example. by increasing the State incentive grant for construction from 35 pst. 50 pst., at the same time we give operating funds to the municipalities. It doesn't just keep doing one. You also have to do the other thing. In addition, there is a great deal about the care of elderly people that this government has actually given down its priorities, for example: day-care services for home-dwelling dentures. In the dignity guarantee, it was very central to get a care system at the end of life. We take this seriously in our alternative budget, for example. to stimulate outpatient treatment teams. This is actually a nobility for a society, how we behave at the end of life, and how we facilitate it in the best possible way. In the health sector and volunteering, I want to point to another area, and that's how we use the country's income, tax and tax system, positively. You can't just look at the tax system as something you get money on. We also need to look at the tax system as something that builds up in other policy areas. Here we think the government is too passive and too weak. Let me just do two examples of public health. Since the government is not included in this budget, it should include it as a greeting to the public health report to be submitted by the government in the spring: why not use the tax system positively, for example. by reducing VAT on fruit and vegetables and perhaps increasing it on those foods that have the most sugar? But here, in my opinion, it is sadly total inaction on the part of the government. The same applies to the environment. We believe that we need a much more active use of the charging policy to meet a climate deal that we are together about. But the Labour Party's chief spokesman is talking down the climate deal and saying people will be turned in and maybe get a shock if you get on the table what it actually costs to make a climate deal that we agree on. It might say something about how much the Workers' Party has stuck internally in the government right at this point. After seven years of red-green government, there's one area I want to finish. It was a good play by the representative Meltveit Kleppa, who spoke of her being on behalf of the red-greens against the competitive outsourcing of health and care services. I just don't know if the red-greens are familiar with what practice they allow health businesses to be involved in these days. It seems like you're completely ignorant. We have mentioned this several times – I see that Helga Pedersen, the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party is sitting in the Chamber – and even sent to the government proposals promoted in the debate on the throne, because the Labour Party apparently agreed that this was an important theme, namely how to ensure cooperation between the public and voluntary health and social institutions in our country, which is actually a pillar of the welfare society we have today. What's the fasit from this government after seven years? It is that one drug institution has been swept out one after another by means of its tradesmen in health companies, and one does not lift one finger. And I have to say I was almost shocked when I read about this agreement that Meltveit Kleppa boasted of, which is concluded with Freedom Norway, and see what the result of it is. After seven years, they say it's fine – we've got a general agreement. So what is it that you do? You put down another sample to -- I kept saying, since it was Meltveit Kleppa who took it up: go through -- I'm not so good at the dialect, but I could try -- review the relationship between the public and the volunteer organizations. So it's a fascination after seven years – after four to five years of clear notification that if this development that this government is at the head of, we don't have any more institutions to review if you put down another public sample. It's about the direction of society. I see here, and I'm using this as an example -- I could take more, but this is one example -- of a government that has stabilized completely, that has left governance to businesses and that has zero political direction in such an important area of society. It tells me a lot about a government that's ready to be replaced – that you'd rather put down samples, so you don't have to take the results of another sample in such an important sector. It's going to get engaged, but actually it's a little bit to cry out that you allow yourself such a strong passivity in such an important area of society. I have used this cooperation as an example. I could mention many, many more. We need a new course. We need a government that puts the family a little bit more in the high seat and that will ensure that agreements on guarantees of dignity and places of care are actually fulfilled. We need a government that makes sure we don't get a sorting society – here is also the direction completely wrong – and we need a government that takes the volunteer seriously and will cooperate with it – not push it down to become a little support wheel in the red-green project. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1044	The representative has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1047	You can't get everything you want, but you can choose what's most important. In the past, the Christian People's Party has said that the fight for a fairer world is the most important thing for the party, even though it was little about it in the post now. But what has been said before is excellent. You can start to fool when you see that the Christian People's Party opens up for cooperation with the right side. Because as we share ambitions and give more to vaccine, aid and development, the Right and Advance Party want to cut. You usually get more in cooperation with those who agree on the most important, than in cooperation with those who do not agree on the most important. That's why I think it's legitimate to ask: after all, isn't the fight for a fairer world the most important thing for the Christian People's Party anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1054	Yes, it is absolutely so, and I think that the representative, Mr Tegen, will agree that we have shown that. We'll show it in our alternative budget for next year. We've shown it over and over again when we're in government, that this is so high that we put a lot of effort into it. And we've done that. So the answer is simple: we pick what's most important, and we get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1059	It is that the Christian People's Party has engaged with the Right and the Advance Party. But the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party actually shows that there is a very great distance between the parties on the bourgeois side. I would say that agricultural policy is a good example. Here in the spring we can listen – out in the square here – the Christian People's Party overtake them to close the income gap between farmers and others, and here in the day they even gave out an agricultural guarantee. Then I'm a little surprised – when they want to rule by two parties, where the Progress Party wants to cut by over 5 billion. kr and Right 1.5 br. to agriculture. According to the Lander, an average grain farmer in the Austland will have a reduced income of NOK 275 000 with his right alternative. And with their Advance Party, they might have to pay to be farmers. How can the Christian People's Party guarantee agriculture, and how do they understand that they will achieve the goal of closing the income gap, when we take the height of those cut up by their current partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1069	It may have been a bit violent to say that we've engaged ourselves. We're not going as fast as the representative Eldegard does, obviously. We take it a little neatly and neatly, so I guess I haven't seen any engagement yet. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, I may have to remind you that it was not the parties the representative refers to, which have been primarily concerned with a negotiated offer that led to a breach in ours. As far as I remember, it was a government made up of the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV that made an offer that was so bad that the Farm broke there and then. So before you advertise what you demand of others, it might be an idea – I think – that you ask yourself: what was wrong with the government's agricultural settlement this year? Then we get back to the second one, when it might be our turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1080	I must say I was surprised when the Christian People's Party spends so much time attacking the Center Party and the voluntary sector that we should have failed there. Let me remind you – first of all – of the VAT for voluntary sector: 1.2 billion. kr will subsequently be returned to the full spectrum of voluntary organisations, which will mean an infinite amount for both children, adults and the elderly and work among them. And so: this cooperation, which is supposed to be – and which is meant on our part to be even more long-term – precisely to strengthen voluntary efforts among the elderly, when it comes to care and care. So the question to the Christian People's Party is: Does the representative really believe – with what lies leading here – that he comes to a better company in this area with a new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1091	With regard to the relationship with voluntary and health care institutions, there can hardly be any lower company than it is now. When the undersigned asked the government: What will be the concrete follow-up to the agreement concluded between Works, Freedom Norway and the Government? Then you might think that you got a substantive answer – that there was something concrete about it. And I'd like to ask the representative Kleppa to look at that answer. What it says is that the result — the concrete result — of this agreement is that the government is setting down a new public body. So I had really gone back and asked myself, "When will the government -- it's getting too late for the red-greens, of course -- do something concrete? You just put the sample down and you're obviously happy with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1096	It is always the case that in words and phrases from the speaker's chair there is a lot that can be heard well. And there are many ideas that you can share. But then it's like when you look at what the individual parties actually do and actually suggest, you find that it's not always a coherent line. I have one specific question, and it is that today we have a system, which we have put in place, which ensures free fruit and green in the school. It means a lot to a lot to a lot of young people. Compared to subscription schemes that we have in other schools, we see that it works socially smoothing. Everyone benefits from them, but where they are paid on their own, they are often used by the resource-intensive families. So this free arrangement will remove the Christian People's Party. I've imagined that the Christian People's Party was too socializing and just wanted to focus on public health in school. The simple question is, Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1105	I think almost I can refer to a municipal doctor who was interviewed on the radio a couple of days ago, and how he described this arrangement as the representative Sande refers to: a quasi solution, as he called it, without – in essence – particular goal and meaning, for the red-green, at least some of them, had promised a full meal, and then it was reduced to fruit and green. We have said in our budget that we are prioritizing a subscription scheme, we are giving priority to the teacher – not least – we think that maybe we also have a certain impact on social cohesion, which the representative Sande is after, and we are giving a tax deduction to each family of NOK 5000 per child. It should also give some opportunity to buy some apples again. I think the families very well can use those heads just as well as the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1110	The government is proposing to increase the aid budget, so that it reaches 1 pst. of gross national income - it increases by 2.4 billion. NOK and comes into an aid budget of 30 billion. kr. It is, as I have seen the policies of the Christian People's Party over the years, well in line with the policies of the Christian People's Party. The ambitions when this government is going to continue are to strengthen it further. But the Christian People's Party has chosen to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party, who will cut in these areas. The progress will cut $7.5 billion. kr in the aid budget. We could also take other areas where the cooperative parties elected by the Christian People's Party are headed in the opposite direction by the Christian People's Party. How – now we are talking about assistance – can the Christian People's Party make this happen when you look forward to the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1117	Let me say that we are also pleased with the assistance priority that the government is doing, in terms of the percentage. We're increasing it a little bit too because we're a little bit dissenting in the arrangement that the government is doing, depriving Africa, depriving UNICEF and depriving education. I can also read black on white what the budgets of the Progress Party and the Right come with just at that point. Here we disagree, but we have actually shown, in cooperation with the Right in Government and the Advance Party, with which we had budgetary settlements here in the Chamber, that we have made it our priority. I'm glad there are so many who agree that in our prosperity we really can't afford to forget the poor world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1122	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1125	We're both privileged and lucky. Today we are dealing with a government budget for the next year without a single demonstrator outside the Stortinget. By means of eight different government budget proposals, the government has failed to do a single real cut, most of all thanks to luck. The fact that we have oil, managed the oil wealth well and, not least, were lucky with persistently high oil prices over the last eight years has led us today to have a situation in the Norwegian economy that none of us overshadowed eight years ago. For example, in the 2006 national budget: estimated oil price of about 200 kr barrel in the future. The State budget for 2013 is based on a price of NOK 625. As a result, the state pension fund abroad has almost quadrupled in value over the same period, from about 1 000 B.C.E. kr in 2005 to nearly 4000 billion. kr in 2013. And when the oil money flows in, the sitting government has also had the opportunity of ‘recorded appropriations’ for all purposes — as they meet with all criticism. Our challenge today is something that almost all parliamentarians in all countries around us envy us: the challenge is how to face ourselves, so that for the next eight years we too can be in the same situation – without being dependent on a record oil price. It's with this curtain on behalf of the Left that I'm promoting our alternative state budget. The Left's alternative budget differs from the government's proposals in many areas, but above all through a strong willingness to prioritize the future rather than the past, to take the necessary steps to ensure the welfare of future generations, to convert all sectors into a more environmentally friendly direction and to put people first. We do this within the same economic space and oil money usage as the government adds. However, the Left proposes a number of important structural interventions on the revenue and expenditure side of the State budget, not least in the tax and tax system, which will over time make Norway better equipped to meet the future. The main act of the left in its alternative budget for 2013 is: targeted and wide-ranging efforts to increase employment and create more jobs, a strong commitment to innovation and knowledge to help those who need the most – fewer poor children an offensive environmental and climate policy needed to ensure the funding of public interest and to modernise the public sector a real and sustainable green tax shift. In these areas, the Left proposes re-priorities and interventions, which in each area lead to billions of dollars in targeted measures in addition to the government's commitment. Although Norway is in a special position international in public finances, and record money is also being used in 2013, there are several challenges that the government does not meet in terms of the 2013 government budget. We see clear trends in the two-way distribution of Norwegian industry, where everything other than the petroleum sector is struggling. We see no willingness to take action to renew the public sector. More and more children live in families struggling with persistent poverty, intoxication, and psychiatric problems. The Norwegian school is increasingly charged with tasks and directives without increasing the number of teachers. The Pause button is still in place for research and higher education. And there is no offensive environmental and climate policy. The climate agreement is an absolute maximum and the large amount of money is spent on symbol projects instead of on measures that provide real emissions reductions. Taking the richest is the most important thing in fiscal policy, not creating growth and behavioural change. And the framework conditions for entrepreneurs and self-employed people are persistently worse under this government. The profile of the government's government budget is mostly a little more for everyone. It really means that the past is protected, while the future is being strangled. The left considers that it is absolutely necessary to shift money use from areas where we need to become more efficient, to areas that contribute to building new knowledge and transforming Norway in a more environmentally friendly direction – better ICT infrastructure, better framework conditions for entrepreneurs and innovators in established business, more modern research equipment at institutes and universities, and a tax policy that stimulates innovation, growth and environmentally friendly behaviour. Left wants a new course. This is why we are proposing to strengthen the mainland industry and business through both taxation, targeting public tools and a real commitment to research and education. Overall, Left proposes 11.75 billion in session. to create more jobs and get more people to work. The left will provide a large-scale effort to lift children and children’s families out of poverty through targeted action – by creating more jobs – and not least redistribute welfare benefits and universal schemes. For us, it is completely incomprehensible that a government that is monotonous about tax distribution is equally little concerned with distribution across the expenditure side of the government budget. Combating wealth is obviously much more important than combating poverty. The Left proposes a number of measures to combat poverty, including: increasing social assistance rates by 20 p.m., and we are proposing to redeploy children's pension and the child care allowance and SFO, which means that those of us who have the most get a little less child benefit and have to pay a little more for kindergarten, while those who have the least get more child benefit and less spending on kindergarten and SFO. In total, a poor family will be left with more than NOK 2000 per month with the arrangement of the Left. It will mean a dramatically better everyday life. That's what a real redistribution is. The left will give priority to more and more motivated teachers and more places of study. We want a strong increase in research efforts, which means both a significant boost in industrial research, environmental and climate research, new and better equipment and a long-term funding of research that provides growth and stability over time. Overall, Left proposes 3.2 billion. kr in addition in the case of school, research and education. The left shows in its alternative budget a real willingness to build up rail, to invest heavily in public transport in major cities and to use climate money where the results are greatest. In our view, it is very difficult to send letters to the EU to ask EU countries to delete climate quotas, so that prices go up and Norway can make more money to sell us – instead of deleting our own first, as the Left suggests in its alternative budget. The left will provide better framework conditions for entrepreneurs and self-employed people through both social schemes and rights, through the tax system, research and the public sector. The left will shift the tax system from ‘red’ to ‘green’ taxes: less taxes on work, jobs, innovation, environmentally friendly solutions and Norwegian ownership and more taxes on environmentally hostile behaviour. In our alternative budget, we propose a green tax shift of 9 billion. kr. It should and will pay off to live environmentally friendly. In addition, the Left proposes a reversal of the income tax whereby the minimum deduction, the deduction and the entry point in the top tax are significantly increased, while the social security charge is increased by half a percentage point. In that way, we do what the government has always thought makes sense, but not got: to convert the tax system so that it pays to work, and at the same time give the largest tax credits, both percentage and nominal, to those with the lowest income. In addition, such a conversion contributes to the strengthening of public confidence, which in the 2013 draft budget is underfunded by 102 billion. kr. Finally, politics is about prioritizing. That's what the Left does in its alternative budget. We give priority to poor children, and we give priority to a green tax shift that stimulates environmentally friendly behaviour. We prioritise school, education and research. Above all, we prioritise better and more motivated teachers. We give priority to and reward those who are willing to invest in an idea, who create jobs for themselves and others, and we give priority to a major effort on rail and public transport. At the same time, we're giving away some priority over the next year. We give priority to funding schemes that we don't think have a future ahead of us, we give priority to statutory tasks like a track in school, homework without skilled staff and an hour's statutory cultural school. It's not that there's necessarily something wrong with any of these measures, but there are other things that are more important for the Left. That is why we do the priorities we do – because we believe that combating poverty among children is far more important than subsidising postal transport on Saturdays, because we believe that giving our children good and motivated teachers is more important than getting half a banana in school, because we believe that giving them jobs and investing in Norwegian business is more important than staring at distribution tables in the tax system, and building up rail and public transport in and around the big cities is more important than buying climate quotas. At the same time, all this is putting people first. That's the most important thing for the left. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal in the settings we are currently examining.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1186	The representative has addressed the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1191	The left raises the environmental profile in its draft budget. Energy-intensive industry in Norway is an important element of environmental policy both nationally and globally. Our government has now created a completely new and modern industrial power regime consisting of, for example, of green certificates, which will give more power and cheaper power. They have an exemption from the electricity charge, and the last piece that now fell into place is CO2 compensation in the power price. What it means, of course, is a little bit dependent on the quota market. In sum, these elements mean enormously much to the power price, especially to an industry located in the West. Remember, because of the hydropower, this industry is the world's purest. The left proposes in its budget to abolish most exemptions from the CO2 tax. The trend has liberated the power-processing industry in this proposal, or is to move this industry to countries where coal power and other pollutants... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1207	I feel that the Micasen, the chairman of the committee, revealed himself instead when he spoke about the tax regime to the Left – from red to green taxes. He was shocked, and he thought that people would be even more shocked when they saw what was really lying there. The left is for green certificates. We've been working on that for too long. But the Left believes everyone has to pay. Pollutants have to pay – that's the way it is, and that's the way it should be. Of course, we are for industry in line with what the Workers' Party is. But again, contaminants have to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1214	Left cutter in its alternative budget of about 4.3 billion. kr in property taxes and inheritance taxes, but has a stated objective of removing the property tax entirely. As we know, this is a tax that is mainly paid by people with large assets, and which ensures that the country's wealthiest contributes to the rift layer above the tax bill. At the same time, the Left charges, which the representative himself was involved in his post, increase by almost 10 billion. kr, which has to be paid by most people. My question to the representative Tenden is then: why does Left want to make some of the country's richest people zero taxpayers, why do people most have to pay the bill, and how much does the Left have to increase the fees for people most to pay for the removal of the entire wealth tax, when the Left increases by 10 billion. kr to remove one seventh of the property tax until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1221	Had the representative read our alternative budget, she would have realized that the premise for the question is actually wrong. We have a redistribution in this budget that the Labour Party can look forward to. That means we're giving a lot more to poor children – 20 billion. kr to poor children – and those with income of more than 1 million. kr, is taxed at an increased rate. The premise is going to be wrong, so it's going to be very hard to answer. Then we want to raise the bottom line of the property tax. Those who are really struggling with the taxes on wealth are start-ups, and the Left wants to make a contribution to their viability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1228	I have noticed that the left will increase the number of men's days before the day's pay in case of unemployment from three to five days. In addition to the Left, only the Progress Party is free of the Day money. For this reason, I wonder if there is a prelude to government cooperation with the Progress Party when the Left wants to focus on the Progress Party's policies in labour policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1235	It is important that we get more in work and fewer in social security. That is why the Left has also done something about the sickness pay scheme, which the representative may not have received. We live by people's work here in this country, and then we have to get people back to work as soon as possible. This government doesn't mind – they let it scour and walk. I mentioned how sub-budgeted our popular fear is – 102 billion. kr. It doesn't seem like it worries SV and this government at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1242	The left often says "climate", but they say little about the causes and the contexts. The fact is that there is increasing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and there are increasing problems with wild weather. The solution is more bet on green plants, renewable carbon and photosynthesis. I've read the Left's budget carefully. I find words there as ‘preserve nature’, ‘take care of nature’, but not one word to manage nature, not one word to use nature, not one word about the use of land and the use of the sea — agriculture, aquaculture, agriculture. My question is: Should not the Left, which uses the word «climate» so strongly, go in to increase the areas of the sea, soil, forest, so that one gets more photosynthesis/energy and more carbon in that way and can live on it to a greater extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1249	The representative Lundtigen says that he has read the left's budget option well, but I'm a little in doubt when I hear the question, because there's something left is concerned about, so it's environment, climate, outdoors and the quality of living off – and with – a good environment. We are bold in this budget; we have an environmental tax of 9 billion. kr. That's a lot, it's tough, but again: it's incredibly important for – just what the representative Lundteg is concerned about – that CO2 should go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1257	Yeah, there's a lot about climate, environment and outdoors, and we in the Center Party are happy about that. We're very happy about that. But that's the whole understanding of nature and ocean I'm asking about. If humans are to live more on renewable carbon, these areas must be used, they must be managed. Then it's no use for a mere abstract to look at it, as a tourist – one has to go in and use. Would the Left go in order for one to use these areas more actively, in a more discretionary way, or will you continue with the line that it should be protected, i.e. taken out of use, as the program gives you the impression?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1262	The protection and use are linked. That's why we in the Left have been very concerned about protecting Lofoten and the Westphalia against oil drilling. That's one example of us being busy with this piece. Another example, with which Lundteg tends to confront me in many ways, is forest roads. This government is failing there. We have international agreements that require us to preserve biodiversity. It does neither Lundtigen nor this government when they want to continue the massive expansion of forest highways.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1267	It is understandable that the Left will not comment that they are in agreement with the Progress Party in Labour Policy, but I would like to ask the following questions: Now are the reasons for us to take money from workers in a difficult situation, that we have to get them out of work. But when it's about unemployment benefit, it's just people who don't get work, we take the money from, and it doesn't send people out to work. Isn't the representative Tenden aware that excessive use of the workline increases poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1272	If the SV representative had been concerned about poverty, perhaps the representative would have voted in favour of the 20 proposals that we have put into our budget, which are precisely to combat poverty. And I'm very pleased with what the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen from SV said here instead, that he was a little "flat" over SV that had not got more on poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1278	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1281	In some articles recently, I have referred to the speech Barack Obama gave during the election of the Democrats, when they won the presidential election. I've shown that speech not only because I think it's unusually inspiring to look at someone who gets four new years, and who celebrates it the way we celebrated in 2009, and which we plan to celebrate in 2013 – four new years – but I have also referred to that speech because it was an expression of what he himself referred to as the American dream. He told as well and as empathetic as only Barack Obama can do, about the society he wanted to create, where all people should have the same opportunities, regardless of who they were, where they came from, the sex, the income of parents, the education of their parents, who they loved, the color of their skin and the religion. While he was giving that speech, I thought it was a fantastic dream. But I was also thinking about an article I had read quite recently in The Economist magazine, which has had its own theme issue on distribution in the world's country, where they have gone through and collected a lot of statistics and many overviews. In the article, there are many conclusions and many considerations, but one of the main conclusions is that the Nordic countries in general, and Norway in particular, differ by having a more even distribution of income than other countries, and in addition, that we have what researchers call more social mobility. Success is easier in Norway, regardless of parental income, background, place of residence and sex, than in most other countries in the world — and much easier in Norway than in the United States. So what's real is that the American dream is more reality in Norway than in America. This is because in Norway, through the Norwegian model, we have understood something about links between the community and the individual, between efficiency and distribution, and we have understood something that security creates bold people who dare to bet. This is a basic understanding, where we have often experienced that the right-hand side is on the other side. Where they create contradictions between the community and the individual, we see that such things as a good public common school, a well-funded public-funded health care system, publicly funded social security schemes, nursery facilities and free core time give people a greater opportunity to live the lives they themselves want to live. It gives more diversity by creating safe communities. This basic recognition also defines the difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of very many industrialised countries. There are considerable differences between Norway and the United States. The political landscape is different, but it is striking to see how some of the debate is about the same basic dividing lines. In the United States, it was about tax havens for the rich. In Norway, it is also a matter of giving great tax relief to those who are most prosperous. In the United States, it was about investing in public welfare – Medicare. In Norway, much of the debate is about privatising public welfare — school and other important welfare schemes. And it's about how active the state should be in terms of employment, labour market policy and economic governance. So these fundamental differences define the right and left side – the view of distribution/redistribution, the role of the public sector. These differences are also reflected in the state budget currently being dealt with by the Storting. We've been busy by the government to create a fairer tax system. We have reduced the tax on those with low incomes over several years, we have densed tax gaps, we have created a fairer system – among others. by changing taxes on wealth, inter alia: by halving the proportion that pays taxes on wealth by fivefold the deductions. While this before was a tax that hit pensioners and small businesses very much, there are now 500,000 fewer who pay property taxes, and that's them with the smallest assets and the smallest businesses. But we are opponents of what the right parties propose, and as they begin to follow up in their alternative budgets – removing the wealth tax. It will be a powerful, targeted and strong instrument for increasing differences in Norway. We can't understand that we're going to remove a tax that brings in 15 billion. kr. When we look at the tax lists, we know that the most prosperous pay little income tax, but they pay property tax. If we remove the property tax, many of the most prosperous are going to pay little or no things in taxes. The thousand richest in Norway have 100 million. kr or more in personal property. They'll each get 3.7 million. Tax bills, and we think it is double unsocial both because there is less money in the common fund to pay wages to nurses and teachers, to other public goods, to invest in roads, research, and because it contributes to increased social differences. We hear that it is taxing Norwegian jobs – it is wrong – it is taxing personal wealth. What is tax on Norwegian jobs is the employer’s tax. The right-hand side often compares Norway with Sweden, which has removed the property tax. This is true, but in return they have an employer’s fee that is more than twice as high as in Norway. I think that is a poor choice, to have higher taxes on work and lower taxes on wealth. But the fundamental problem with the desire of the right to remove the wealth tax is that it undermines some of the social solidarity. It is difficult to appeal for everyone to contribute when those who have the most are going to contribute significantly less. We get new examples of those with high incomes getting low tax rates. Fair tax systems are important for fair distribution. The most important thing for fair distribution is work. Since 2005, we have experienced an economic development in which more than 300 000 new jobs have been created. The latest figures show that almost three out of four new jobs have come in the private sector. It says something about creativity, it says something about entrepreneurship, it says something about adaptability in the Norwegian economy, which has been unique, and I'm very warning against thinking it comes of itself. Stable, good business framework conditions, business simplification, economic policy clean-up and good incomes policies have been essential for private enterprises to have conditions that enable us to see a historically strong growth in private Norwegian business. There is considerable uncertainty in the international economy. The financial crisis is breaking down, unemployment is increasing, and precisely when there is uncertainty and uncertainty outside, it is all the more important that we have the security and stability of economic policy at home. So the uncertainty beyond underlines the need for security at home in economic policy. I want to mention another side of the budget that concerns me, and it's related to climate. In these days, the Doha climate negotiations begin. There we can experience many disappointments – that a lot is going in the wrong direction, and it is very serious, because what we have got from new numbers, just demonstrates that global warming is happening, that emissions are increasing, and that the uncertainty about actually happening to man-made global warming is reduced as the world's ability to do something about it is also reduced. This is very serious. But in one area, there is actually a basis for optimism, and that is in one area we see progress, and that is relative to reducing deforestation. Deforestation is not one of many measures to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, but by reducing global deforestation, we can get the largest, the fastest and the cheapest cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. The reduced deforestation now seen in Brazil constitutes the single measure that has led to the largest emissions cuts in the world in recent years. This reduction corresponds to about 10 times the total emissions of Norway. This is not due to Norway's efforts alone, but is there one area in which we have distinguished ourselves, it is precisely to be a driver and to be involved in financing emissions cuts in reducing deforestation. And then it doesn't make sense to cut that effort, it's incomprehensible that the Right Party and the Advance Party choose to cut in the most performance-based, the most successful and the most powerful climate action Norway has been for in recent years. It's a shame, but it says something about a lack of ability to prioritize the climate. This government prioritises the climate because it is one of the most serious challenges of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1317	The Prime Minister put a lot of emphasis on work and distribution in the post he just made. But it can't be anything but a failure statement for the government when they can't reach those who might need the help of society the most. Then I think of all those on the outside of the labour market who don't come in. It's disabled, it's partially disabled, there's a lot of young people, and there's a lot of people with a minority background. If the government's policy for work had been excellent, it would have seen results in this area as well – and you don't. The other applies to distribution. The government's mantra over all years has been the combination of high taxes, high subsidies and transfers. In other words, it has to give better distribution. Why, then, increase poverty in Norway, if this is the correct recipe? After all, poverty should have gone down and been abolished, as Kristin Halvorsen thought she would do, if this was the right medicine. Isn't this a failed statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1324	First to employment. So it's like we've never had more people working in Norway in our history. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and we have been able to have growth in employment even in a serious financial crisis outside the world. So there is about ten times as much growth in employment under this government as under the previous one, and it is wrong, as it is said from the Right, that the employment shares go down – they go up. More people are at work, a larger proportion of the population are at work, and we also manage better to integrate because we get more immigrants to work. Measured as the OECD measures poverty, there was more than a doubling of poverty under the previous government — it has fallen slightly below this government, but it is not a statistical question. Too many people live with low incomes in Norway. The main and largest group are immigrants, and therefore everything we do for integration is important to reduce poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1333	I record that the Prime Minister was unable to answer any of what I asked for, but I am going to challenge him on the direct consequences of the state budget we are adopting. It is that everything has a consequence, among other things. also for the health budget. The Soria Moria Declaration clearly states that no local hospital should be closed. In a reply to the Stortinget on 12 November, the Minister of Health made it clear that it is still government policy that no local hospital should be closed down. Then I would like the Prime Minister to explain to me, but preferably the people of Upper Rome, why the local hospital Stensby Hospital is laid down, as a direct consequence of the government's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1340	First of all, I do not agree that I did not reply. I responded to both employment and poverty. This government is taking many measures to reduce social inequality, to help people get out of a situation where they have long-term low incomes. It's about getting people to work, it's about increasing housing support, and it's not least about integration, and then it's about such things as psychiatry, drugs. We know that many of those who live in poverty have that kind of problems. There are many different reasons. That's why we have to implement a lot of different measures, because we're talking about a lot of different people. In the case of local hospitals, it's the right thing to do in the Soria Moria statement, and we've followed that up. But we've always been ready to do that, for example. when choosing to move Fredrikstad Hospital to Sarpsborg, it still has local hospital functions for Fredrikstad. I've been ready for that both before and after the election, and that doesn't mean that every hospital should be right where it is. Aarhus and other hospitals perform local hospital functions for the population of that part of Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1347	I think we're all quite proud that Norwegian society has a great deal of equality, that Norwegian society provides a great deal of social mobility. But I want to stress that if you read the article that The Economist has written, which the Prime Minister also used for his introductory 5 minutes, they point to one instrument that creates social mobility, and that's access to and good quality of the education system. That's what's the biggest dynamic factor in getting high social mobility in a society. This government found quite early that the school reproduced inequalities – we were too poor on social cohesion. After that, statistics show that we're getting a little bit worse at it under the red-green government. Then my question is to the Prime Minister, because I know that there is one tool that works to also raise the fight against social differences in school, namely the quality of the teacher: why is it that you don't give a single extra crown for continuing education?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1352	Firstly, there are several factors — education is important, work is important — in order to contribute to social mobility and, among other things, contribute to integration, which is important in order to contribute to social mobility. Secondly, it's important to bet on school. This is why this government has done so, both by facilitating more people wanting to become teachers – there is an increased search for teacher training through its own programme, and it has done quite well – and by investing in the further and further training of already educated teachers. It was a scheme that was used too little before. We have improved the scheme so that the state now pays a greater share of the continuing training costs, the municipalities pay a smaller share. Thus, the number of teachers taking continuing training has increased significantly, and we say in the budget that if the frameworks are used up, we are prepared to grant even more. So we've improved a system so that more teachers now take on continuing education, because we see that not only do we need to improve teacher training; we also need to improve the education of already educated teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1357	This government is often challenged by its executive power — the fact that it is dry to make clear and clear what is most important. And school policy does not have an executive role in what is most important, and that is to raise the level of continuing education of teachers. It's so that with the arrangement that the government has now crowned, it's at the same level as what we promised when we were in government. Yes, there have been some changes in the way it is allocated, but it is not an increased bet – and it is in a government budget where you can afford to bet on everything, but not on the most important thing. Last week we had a round in this room about math education in school – and lack of math. Just betting on continuing education will help raise the quality of classrooms, break the vicious circle we're in in in mathematics. Our state budget options do just that: rates of continuing education, rates of educational assistance in high school, rates of breaking the bad chain and ensuring more social mobility in the future so that the education system improves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1367	The problem with the old system of continuing training of teachers, which we inherited from the previous government, was that the municipalities had to pay 40 pst. of the costs. Then there were few municipalities that sent their teachers to continue their training. Then we've increased the state's share, so that the municipalities now pay 25 pst. of the total expenditure. This has led to an increase in the number of people taking part in continuing training from 1500 to 1850. And we're saying that if it keeps increasing, we're going to grant even more. But the first thing we had to do was make sure that the money that was granted was used by improving the scheme. In addition to better continuing training of teachers, we have received a 50 pst search for teacher training through our own programmes. It also means that we can set higher quality requirements for those who are applying for teacher training, and we have set skills requirements for teachers in school. So we agree that we need to bet on teachers – we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1374	The Prime Minister is talking about the American dream, but Nav's latest report is very clear. So there are over 100,000 children living in poor families in Norway. Occupational participation among young people with reduced working capacity has gone from 44 pst. in 2011 to under 40 pst. in 2012. There are many thousands in line for a drug treatment site. I feel that this government, which talks a lot about poverty, no longer has any objectives to reduce poverty. I understand that the government is spending time and resources on how to celebrate an optional election in 2013. Perhaps it could be more valuable to come up with measures and objectives to reduce poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1381	I fully agree that we should take very seriously that for many people in Norway live with what statisticians call persistently low incomes – what we politicians call poverty. It doesn't matter what we call it, it's essential that many people have serious economic problems over a long time, and many of them are children. It's not a statistical question, because there's too many people no matter how you calculate. But when the representative first comes up with numbers, I'm a little bit concerned with just cards to tell you what reality is. So under the previous government, the proportion of children in poor families increased from 2 pst. to 4.94 pst. So the growth has now stopped, it has actually gone down a little bit under this government. The same is true of the EU's objectives for poverty. There's the picture of something of the same thing, with strong growth and then an flare. The point is that we're all concerned about doing something about many people living with persistently low incomes. That's why we're so busy facilitating people to get to work, and that's why we're betting on drugs and psychiatry — and on other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1386	Many people have asked questions that the Prime Minister doesn't think it's so funny to answer, but I'm going to guarantee that he thinks it's funny to answer. The most fun thing the prime minister knows is to answer questions about economic relations and make socio-economic investigations and stuff. There is one thing I do not understand in this budget. This government has closed down the Research Fund, because the model worked so poorly, and now the Culture Memory Fund is also to be closed down, because the model has worked so poorly, while creating an environmental technology fund based on the same model. I have to admit that I only have a basic social economy subject, the Prime Minister has so much that he can call himself a social economist. Can he then explain to me why the model that doesn't work on research and cultural memories is totally ingenious for the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1393	I think we should have a pragmatic relationship with funds. I think we're going to use them where we think they work, and not use them where they don't work. It is essential that the state budget be given money. The reason for many, for example: In the research community itself, skeptical about the Research Fund was that they saw how much money could be spent depending on how the interest rate went down, and when the interest rate went down, less of the Research Fund could be used. There were many people who, what to say, were not happy, and therefore they would rather have clean money over the state budget. The industry has been very happy to get this fund, and I am happy to be able to please people. That is why we have allocated money to the fund. All the parties in Stortinget have merged on the climate agreement, and then the money must be granted afterwards over the state budget in the usual way. So it's really about how much we give over the state budget every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1400	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1403	Much is good in Norway, I think we all agree on that. But there's also a lot of things there's a reason to be concerned about. Then the biggest concern I have may be the long-term development between Europe on the one hand and Norway on the other. In the long term and in a macro-economic perspective, we see a Europe that is on the verge of slimming down, cutting down, red tape, and that is sharpening for a future in competition when they are faced with the very serious challenges they are now facing. Then we heard the head of the finance committee say that while this is happening in Europe, Norway is building up its well-being. Yes, we can certainly allow ourselves to expand well-being, but we have to do that in a sustainable way. We have to do this in such a way that we do not weaken Norwegian competitiveness in relation to Europe, and that is about being dedicated to stamping out our own bureaucracy, increasing our own competitiveness and, not least, spending a lot of time reducing the great exclusion, which is the biggest contribution to poverty in Norway. I also think we all agree that it is important to keep order in the economy. What we disagree about is how to set up the tools to achieve the goals that we set ourselves. I can only see that we are now seeing a development in which poverty increases, maintenance efforts increase, investment needs in almost all sectors in Norway are greater than ever, health queues and waiting times are long, exclusion is large. Someone chooses to call it black paint, but it's sadly the honest and brutal reality. The Progress Party's alternative budget is based on three pillars: freedom, security and action. We are concerned with freedom because we believe in the individual. Where the medicine of the Progress Party to give the individual more real freedom is tax reductions and tax reductions, the Workers' Party responds with more subsidies and transfers. It's an honest thing to disagree, but we believe that creativity evolves best when people are free and have control of their own private economy. But it is also because we are concerned with freedom, that we strengthen the education budget. It is about giving better and more accurate education, so that our young and hopeful have a real opportunity to enter the future labour market. And of course, it's about freedom when we're concerned about people getting a real choice between public and private health services. We're counting on security, because it means a lot to the individual in everyday life. That is why we are strengthening the judicial budget, both in the police, in criminal matters and in the courts. It is about security – security for one’s own life, security for one’s own family, security for everyday life. But that is also why we are strengthening the family economy. It means something to the family to have security for their own economy. This is also one of the reasons why we are proposing to strengthen child-responsiveness, which has remained silent for many years. We're strengthening the pensioners' economy, because it's about the security of old age. We are strengthening the health budget, because it is about faster patient treatment, better care and better dental health. In particular, the Progress Party proposes to earmark funds for both operations and investments in the care of the elderly. It is a matter of safety that we get a proper offer on the day we can no longer take care of ourselves. Then we're concerned with the power of action. It's about feasibility. This is why the Progress Party strongly strengthens the infrastructure effort both on the road, track and collective solutions. We also reduce red tape, precisely because it is important to show action in an area where the gap between Norway and Europe is now increasing. Bureaucracies also mean significant interference in the private sphere. You spend an enormous amount of time meeting the public, which was really supposed to be a service institution and too many people feel like the opposite, which is a significant amount of plunder and heft in everyday life. That is why we are also proposing a number of measures for a more competitive business. In addition, it is important now to speed up limiting the growth of the outside cabinet. It is important for all those who feel that they are on the outside of society, to be allowed to participate in it by getting into independent work. That is why efforts need to be stepped up here. Finally, everyone in this room is working to further improve society. What we disagree about is what means we're going to use. But I think it's going to be pretty tough when the position accuses the opposition of almost raging the welfare community because we have a different view of how we're going to decorate society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1423	I want to address a topic that has been the subject of the public debate lately, but that the representative Jensen did not come up with. It's about us in Norway being blessed with rich natural resources, and one of them is hydropower. Unlike other types of natural resources such as: oil and gas, the hydropower is eternal. That is why many people, together with the Workers' Party and our government partners, believe that the hydropower resources in Norway should remain on public hands and that the current power of repatriation should, of course, fall back to the public, as the terms of the concession say. I have noticed that the Progress Party in its programme design for the next period writes that they have no counter-representation against private ownership of the hydropower. My question is: is the representative Jensen behind such a formulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1430	I think the representative Pedersen and I know very well that programming processes in all parties take time, and they usually end up in wise decisions when they are finally decided. What I can say is that the Progress Party agrees with the Workers' Party that it is important to manage our natural resources in such a way that it benefits the community over several generations. Therefore, it is wrong when it comes to claims that the Progress Party will virtually privatize all hydropower. We don't want to do that, but we're looking at how to stimulate business in a better way to gain access to power, not least for the powerful industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1437	I was not reassured by this answer. It is also linked to the fact that the Progress Party and the Right have an explicit goal of forming government together the next harvest. Here, in fact, the Right goes even further than the Progress Party does in its programme design, by saying that private and public owners of the hydropower will be equated. The right also confirms that it will mean removing the right of return and opening up for sale and privatisation. Doesn't such a development concern the leader of a party claiming to be the party for the most people, a people who have served well at the fall-back institute for a hundred years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1445	I don't really have anything to worry about, because the claims that come from the representative Pedersen are crazy. Now it should also be said that I believe that no matter what I had said from this pulpit, I had not been able to reassure Helga Pedersen. She's monotonous about misinterpreting everything the Progress Party says. It's a perfectly honest thing to have a different view of how the instruments affect the economy. But the Progress Party – I repeat it – is concerned that the natural resources in Norway belong to the community and must be managed in a way that benefits several generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1450	I see that the Progress Party and the Right are struggling a little with the role-sharing in the government cooperation that they are trying to launch. In the alternative budgets it may seem that the Progress Party is trying to use the Right as a stuntman in fiscal policy. It is the Right that is to bring the neck-breaking and unpopular tax havens to the rich, while they are suddenly not to be found in the Advance Party's alternative budget. However, according to the programme and a number of statements by leading politicians from the Progress Party, the Progress Party remains for the same tax reliefs to the kingdoms for which the Right is in favour, not least in terms of removing the wealth tax. Therefore, I wonder what Siv Jensen will do to prevent the removal of property taxes from making some of the richest people in Norway zero taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1457	Let me first say: there is a difference between the Progress Party and the Right also in terms of fiscal policy, not least in how we want to dimension the reliefs. The Progress Party has a fundamental belief in dynamic effects in fiscal policy. We believe that considerable relief, not least to ordinary employees, will have an effect on the supply of work – not least it also has the effect of the tax reductions we propose, that several families are able to live on their own income without having to seek alternative help from the authorities. I think that's good. The Progress Party proposes, in its alternative budget, to increase the tax base on wealth, and we have the ambition over time to remove all of it. This does not mean that the Progress Party is for zero taxpayers. We believe that all people who benefit from the welfare of this country should contribute, including the richest. That's why it's important to look at how we set up the tax system. But this whole debate is characterized by the fact that the red-greens believe that the dramatic difference between a red-green and a bourgeois government is passing through the wealth tax. So it's a marginal part of total tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1464	It is very good that the representative Siv Jensen believes that everyone should contribute. My question was just how she would make sure that everyone would contribute. Fortunately, I have the opportunity to ask that question again: will Siv Jensen ensure that it will not be zero-taxors if the property tax is removed? How will she do that? And will we get an answer from the Progress Party on how it should be done before the big shot?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1469	We want to do that, because it's not a goal for us not to have clear answers to that. We have now properly asked the Ministry of Finance more questions through this budgetary procedure about the effect of removing the wealth tax and how it can take action by taking a number of other measures in relation to the rest of the capital tax system. There we get answers from the Ministry of Finance that a lasting situation with zero taxable income is rare for wealthy people. It also writes the Ministry of Finance today. We are nevertheless concerned about being absolutely sure that we are able to set up the tax system in such a way that everyone contributes. But it is not certain that it is the property tax and the device that is the right way to tax. Many other countries in the world have found other ways to do it. I think we need to have an honest and open debate on how to do that. But we believe that the provision of property taxes is wrong. That's why we want to remove it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1478	In the Central Party, we are concerned that the whole country should have a positive development. Therefore, the Centre Party and the Red-Green Government have strengthened mechanisms that offset costs. An example is the web-balancing mechanism. This mechanism ensures that people and businesses also avoid unreasonably high network costs outside the major cities. The Progress Party has called for a strong reduction in this balancing mechanism. My question to Siv Jensen is: Does the Progress Party really think it is reasonable to increase the cost of web rental for people and businesses in Norwegian districts? In my opinion, as she said in her speech, it would be like going from a Europe on a diet to Norwegian districts on a diet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1487	I guess I think that comparison was to take in a little bit, to say it carefully. What we now see in Europe is quite different from the relatively marginal differences we find in our own country. The Progress Party is also committed to a positive development for the whole country. Under the prevailing government, with the Central Party at the rudder for many years, we have actually seen the opposite development, namely increased deportation from the districts. Many people struggle to cope because of poor framework conditions, among other things. for the development of economic activity. I think in essence that the centre party should begin to sweep a little for themselves before they go into attack on other parties. The Progress Party believes that there are a number of instruments that will stimulate increased value creation, increased employment and increased housing in rural areas, among others. by allowing people – families and businesses – to retain more of their own income, rather than to give up an ever-increasing share to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1494	For the Christian People's Party it is an important task, and also a political task, to put a good framework around the families. I feel that the Advance Party is also concerned with the families – the representative Jensen was also in his post. However, another important task in this respect is also to facilitate families at risk of fragmentation to meet with good measures. I am thinking about community measures. However, this is not so much a concern of the Progress Party, because the Progress Party proposed to cut that item in its alternative budget for the current year, because it was considered that general co-operation measures are not a priority task for the public. So my question to the representative Siv Jensen is: will they also continue to cut these important measures in their alternative budget for 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1501	There is a lot that unites the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party in terms of the view of the family. The family is an important institution in society, and it should be seen as a much more independent institution rather than just a contributor to public funds – as you often see it from the red-green government. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are strengthening child welfare. It has stood still for too long and is a direct contribution to increasing poverty among many children in Norway. That's why we want to do something about it. We have also proposed reintroducing the cash support for two-year-olds, simply because we believe it is an important tool to increase freedom of choice in families. Then I am sure that the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party will find good solutions also to smaller measures within the families, such as: Community action, but I think it belongs primarily to the private sphere.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1508	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1511	The next year's budget is a budget for growth, prosperity and justice. I don't think it hurts to repeat a good message, and it's first of all about the red-green government creating over 330,000 new jobs here in the country. We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, we have a high level of employment, sick leave is falling – Norway is moving in the right direction. But we're not going to settle down on that. We're going to take Norway further; we're going to invest in the future, and not least it's about investing in knowledge. The results so far I would say are good. We have more teachers in Norwegian school. There are several people who want to be teachers. New teacher training is in place. And the most important thing: Norwegian students get better results from the international surveys in which Norway is involved. Research and education are important for creating growth and development in the coming years. The next year, the budget is set up to create 3,250 additional places of study, and 1000 new student housing will be built. Since the red-green government took over, almost three new student homes are built every day. With a total appropriation for research and development of 27 billion. Norway is among the OECD countries with the highest publicly funded research per capita. From 2006 until today, the real growth in the public research budget is 32 pst. It's a solid growth. It is our joint work that provides the basis for the welfare society. Therefore, we need to ensure that everyone has a chance to participate – that more people are involved in creating and participating. Therefore, the government will continue a high level of action to increase the number of people in the labour market. Youth who fall out of work and education shall receive better follow-up. At the same time, the greatest ICT effort in the public sector is now under way. This results, among other things, in: Nav's ability to modernise their ICT systems, so that those who work in Nav can spend more of their time following up those who need help to get into work and activity, instead of having their heads down in the papers. Over seven years, the red-green government has strengthened Velferds-Norway strongly. Of course, municipalities have a key role to play in it. The income of municipalities during this period has actually increased by 61 billion. kr. A good municipal economy also in the years to come is a prerequisite for a good welfare offer throughout the country. Next year, municipalities will grow their total income by 6.8 billion. kr. Of them, 5 billion is. - free income. It provides the basis for growth in the number of nurses, teachers and more nursery workers, which should provide us with modern welfare services and high-quality secure services where we live. Good health and care services are the hallmark of the welfare society. Norway is also moving in the right direction: several receive treatment – several survive. Today, Norwegian hospitals do approx. 1.5 million more investigations and treatments than in 2005. In addition, waiting time goes down, and most hospitals are in charge of the economy. This isn't obvious. Earlier in the debate, the representative of the Right has pointed out that the waiting times in the Norwegian health services also fell under the previous government. That's right, but at the same time we saw a serious failure in the economy of Norwegian hospitals. Now it's essentially cleaned up in the economy, while at the same time more people are being treated, and the waiting times are going down. With the governance of the economy that we have in the Norwegian healthcare system today, we see that Norwegian hospitals have opportunities to invest in new equipment, new medicines and more treatments. In the next year, it is foreseen that patient treatment can be further increased, that there will be more treatment, that waiting times will be reduced, and that quality will be strengthened. A responsible economic policy is also about justice. It is about pursuing a policy that ensures a good distribution and a safe society for all. Fair distribution is important for economic development and growth. Ensuring equal opportunities for education, jobs, well-being and a decent life is central to our Norwegian social model. For the Workers' Party, fiscal policy is an important and, of course, a tool in the distribution policy. Those who earn the most and have the highest wealth shall pay more in taxes than those who have lower income and wealth. Everyone must contribute to building future Norway. It is a thought that has strong support in Norway, and therefore our government has also ensured that 500,000 fewer people pay taxes on wealth. At the same time, those who have the most pay more. This is the most effective redistribution tax that we have in Norway, and therefore we want to keep it. I think that is very well justified. The representative Jensen was in his intervention concerned that the welfare must be sustainable. Yes, it's actually one of the things that the Labour Party and the Advance Party can agree on, but I don't think we agree on the way forward, because sustainable welfare requires that welfare is funded. Next year, the community will contribute 15.5 billion. kr in taxes on wealth entering the joint venture. If you take away 15.5 billion. Whereas Community revenue must lead to a corresponding cut in the budgets; That, of course, will be the framework for well-being. For 15 B.C.E. For example, kr. operate 16 000 sick places each year. It also belongs to the picture to approx. 10 of the 15 billion to be paid into property taxes next year, ports in municipalities. This means that if the Right Party and the Advance Party form government together, it will lead to a severe deterioration in the local economy. It's going to be 10 billion. less for school, health, care for the elderly and other important welfare services in municipalities. Without the taxes on wealth, people with large assets and income from limited liability companies will lose opportunities to contribute to the community. In practice, the richest of the country can become zero-taxors. The Right Party and the Advance Party have once again promised not to do so, but during the seven years they have been in opposition, they still have no answer to what the option should be. I don't see any new ideas or better solutions here. I see right-wing policy as we know it from old times. In this debate we have heard representatives of the Right talk about the weak in society, but they give priority to cutting taxes the most for those who have the most from before. While most people get a hundred dollars in tax cuts this month, they get more than three million in income. NOK 64 000 in tax cut in the year with Right order. There's 40 times as much in tax cuts for those who have the most. How this is going to help the sick and decapitated to be included in society, it's not that easy to understand, it's simply not related. The heart business of the right hand side is tax cuts. It's very clear in their alternative budgets. While the Right says they're betting on knowledge and welfare, they're using over 70 pst. of the space for action on the tax haven. In the right-hand alternative budgets for this four-year period, they have, on average, prioritised more than seven times as much to tax cuts as to knowledge and research, and four times as much to tax cuts as to road and infrastructure. At the same time, they have been thinking about government with the Progress Party, which wants to remove the rule of action and increase the use of oil money. It will threaten the secure economic governance that has helped to get us through the financial crisis and facilitate continued growth. More clearly, the direction of the next year cannot be pronounced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1556	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1559	First, I would like to point out what I think is a very clever way of running a line chord exchange against the representative Jensen. If the representative Pedersen had read the whole sentence, instead of half a sentence, she would see that the draft programme of the Progress Party states that ‘national control of energy resources to ensure that jobs, head office and development work are located in Norway’ is important. And we say that industry should be able to own power ‘when this strengthens the competitiveness of power-generating industries and is used to secure jobs in Norway’. It's a completely different picture than the one that Pedersen's representative is trying to create. Similarly, the representative Pedersen tries to pretend that the economic policy of the Progress Party will create chaos in the Norwegian economy. Well – SSB, where the Prime Minister previously worked, has analysed our budget and said that it will provide higher GDP, lower unemployment, lower inflation, lower interest rates and higher employment. That's good signs. Doesn't the representative Pedersen trust the SSB?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1570	I trust the SSB, but as others in the debate have been involved, there are several assumptions underlying the answer given by the SSB. But a follow-up to this debate could be that I and the representative Solvik-Olsen can go together to the SSB and go through our alternative budgets and get the SSB's assessment of it. If I'm going to go back to the start, and what's going on about the right of repatriation and privatisation of national hydropower resources, I think the Progress Party can't easily jump from saying that they don't have any counter-conceptions about private ownership of hydropower, and that they want to be in government with a right-wing party that wants to equalise public and private ownership. The sum of tax cuts, privatisation ideology and doubts about economic policy make me continue to warn the voters against voting the Progress Party next autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1579	This is going to be a little bit foolish. The proportion of private kindergartens has increased during this government, so in that case there is an equal amount of privatisation ideology in this government. In addition, the representative Pedersen once again chooses to ignore the fact that the premise that individuals may be able to own hydropower in Norway is that they are used for industrial activity and secure jobs here. That's what we've been doing for a hundred years, so it's not a new policy. In the case of the SSB, we can take a trip together there – I am delighted to see the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, it would have been interesting. What I want to ask you now is going to the Norwegian economy. Financial spokesman for the Workers' Party said that spending more oil money if you just invest in the oil sector is okay, because it's so profitable, but if the Progress Party spends more money building roads, it's bad for the Norwegian economy, because it's not profitable in the Labour Party's world. How can it be that the pressure in the Norwegian economy is okay if the investments are made on a Norwegian base, but it is said that it is not possible to remove queues to the big cities by building better roads and rail rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1592	The President would like to point out that there are better parliamentary expressions than ‘poor’, and it should not be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1595	This is, of course, a ritual, for this discussion I and Ketil Solvik-Olsen have in every debate on the matter of the languages of the throne or the budget. My answer today is exactly the same as every time before when Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had this line to me. We're going to have an economic policy with an oil money use that Norwegian economy can bear. There is a limit to how much money we can spend without it boiling over, and without risking people's jobs and mortgages. I don't think the assembly is well served that we are now going down in percentages, toll companies, banks and Germany. The point is that when we in Norway, by nature, have received both hydropower, oil and other energy resources at our disposal, we will manage it in a good and sensible way, and this is fortunately a major cross-political agreement, with the exception of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1600	Not with the exception of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1605	When we presented our alternative state budget, the Workers' Party had to go out and apologize for Helga Pedersen's miscalculations, which were false. I assume that if Helga Pedersen goes back to his post and looks at the statements on local economy and wealth taxes, she will see that she again makes a serious mistake in how budgets are set up, and in how our alternative budget is set up. So there's as much money in transfers to the municipalities in our alternative state budget as the state has. I expect that this is a mistake that has been made, and I hope that it can be corrected. If not, I have to say that there are only unparliamentary expressions to characterize that part of the post. What I was going to ask the parliamentary leader about is the plan of action related to drug abuse that they had before the election last time. Does Helga Pedersen feel that they have achieved their goals in terms of the election promises for the care of drug addicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1612	I would like to challenge the representative of Solberg on what the Workers' Party has complained on my behalf, because I am actually unknown about that. I still believe that there is a very strong and clear connection between our willingness to finance welfare through taxes and the well-being you get back at the other end. We saw that not least when the Right was in charge of the country under the Bondevik II government. While Erna Solberg was the municipal minister, the number of employees in Norwegian municipalities fell for the first time after the war, and that happened in 2003. With the municipal budgets that we have had with the red-green government, Norwegian municipalities have been able to employ more people. This has not least contributed to full child care coverage and to more teachers in school. Yes, we have also stepped up the efforts on the drug field, but we still have a way to go, both by preventing and treating.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1617	I'm going to come back to the rest of the post, but now I'm going back to the field. One of the most important elections to Helga Pedersen in the presentation of the programme at the last major elections was that the Workers' Party guaranteed that more people would be treated, and that should happen more quickly. An important proposal was that all those who seek help from drug abuse should receive follow-up from the first day. So now it's like Ruspacers are waiting for the longest daily treatment in the country – 75 days per second tertiary 2012, exactly the same waiting time as in 2008. So one of the most important things that Helga Pedersen presented in the program design has done nothing about in terms of results over the course of these four years. 2 527 are in line for help, there are major regional differences, and at the same time institutions with capacity are being dismantled. What does Helga Pedersen feel about his own election statement and his own priority of care?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1626	First of all, we can state that the ability of the Norwegian welfare community to help those who need help, those who are struggling with disease, whether they are drug addicts, mental or somatic, is strengthened. We can see that, among other things. on what is happening in Norwegian hospitals by reducing the waiting time, improving the quality. We still have a way to go, and that's exactly why the other red-green parties and the Workers' Party are asking for trust for four new years, because we see that the welfare society is moving in the right direction. Focusing on strong Community solutions, stronger interaction between municipalities and specialist health services, is the way to go to help even more people who are struggling with drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1632	I would like to remind Parliamentary leader Pedersen that there are many thousands in line for the provision of drug treatment in Norway under the red-green regime. But I have another question for the parliamentary leader Pedersen. The real value, the value, of support for children's families has in fact fallen over a longer period, over several decades, not least the real cut in child-rearing is the reason. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes a tax deduction of NOK 5000 per child, i.e. a tax relief for children's families of 4.5 bn. kr. Those who do not have enough income to make full use of the deduction are paid in cash. A two-child family will thus receive a further NOK 10,000. My question is so simple: does Parliamentary leader Pedersen agree that the big money this year should go to the families of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1641	I am at least concerned that we should facilitate the families of children, and that their daily lives should go up. In order to ensure genuine freedom of choice, it is important to have something to choose from, and therefore, the red-green government and the majority here on the Stortinget have ensured full child-care coverage, and we have greatly reduced parental pay. It has been a heavy investment in the everyday lives of families with children. I have to say that when we have removed the cash support for two-year-olds and are sceptical about introducing new cash benefits, it is precisely because we want to give children's families freedom of choice and that they choose kindergarten. And if we're to get new groups into work, not least immigrant women, cheap kindergartens are most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1648	In spring 2008, the government – and then Helga Pedersen was part of that government – gave clear signals that at the end of the year, i.e. in 2008, they would present a regulation with mandatory deadlines for universal design of schools and educational buildings. That's now four and a half years ago. There are no plans, there are no regulations, there is, in short, nothing, sail if the government decided that school buildings would be prioritised only when it was the government's own plan. It's probably an example of what the Right has stood here and called a lack of implementation. The left is sorry that the government shows a lack of ability to follow up its own promises, especially in the case of the weakest. The left therefore suggests that we start upgrading all school buildings to universal design next year, and in our alternative budget we have allocated 250 million. kr to it. Why in the world is the Workers' Party opposed to letting everyone join in?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1657	The working party is very much for everyone to join in, and the red-green government has put in place a new piece of legislation that is just about universal design. I cannot answer for the specific regulation you are asking for, but what is at least a reality is that the government – through the allocations to the municipalities – has facilitated the construction of many new school buildings. They are universally designed and, through the interest-rate compensation scheme, many existing school buildings are also refurbished, rusted up, and then universal design is also taken into account. Then there are dilemmas in this too, not least we have seen with the demands we have made on new student housing – now I am not going to take the representative Skei Grande to income for it, she gets to answer for it – but there the opposition has criticized the government for making tough demands. But the government has put in place a new piece of legislation, demands, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1664	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1667	Very much goes well in Norway. We have low unemployment, we have a high oil price that provides a high level of activity in the business world, and we have many skilled employees in the public and private sectors who do a good job every day to provide well-being to both the elderly and the young. But even if things are going well in a society, we can't lean back and rest on good results. We need to raise our eyes and look forward to the long-term challenges that Norwegian society will face. The steps that we are taking today through the treatment of the state budget will go in a direction that will enable us to solve challenges today, but not least to arm ourselves in the future. That is the background to the priorities set by the Right in its Alternative State Budget. There, we have prioritised knowledge and competitiveness, and we have prioritised measures that help to improve the functioning of well-being. We've spent 8 billion. kr for expenditure priorities and approx. 5 B.C.E. on tax changes and changes in taxes to strengthen competitiveness. Indeed, competitiveness must also be strengthened, by removing what are peculiar tax rules, which help companies to develop more poorly, and that jobs in the future will be more expensive and more difficult to operate. It is also important that we focus more on infrastructure, so that we expand labour markets and reduce costs, both for individuals and businesses. It is important that we have a strategy to raise Norway’s competitiveness for the future. Then it is important that we take with us that Norway is going to be – and in my opinion should also be – a high-cost country, with a high wage level for very many. It's part of the fundamental well-being. But one thing is clear and clear: we have to work smarter than the countries we compete with in world markets to create safe jobs. Then we think it is necessary to make changes to the government's draft budget. When we see that the research sector has had less growth than the entire state budget in three of the last four years, it simply testifies to the need for clearer priorities and more implementation if we are to provide for competitiveness in the years to come. I've been discussing mathematics in Norway sometimes with the Prime Minister. Although we in Norway are well above the average in the case of highly educated people, the proportion of real-time graduates is 35 pst. lower than the average for OECD countries. It's a critical challenge, as business across the country notices today. The business community lacks engineers and ICT personnel, and jobs move out of the country because we just don't have enough knowledge. This is why the Right in its budget has put new ideas and improved solutions for knowledge and competitiveness in the high seat. It contributes to the creation of safe Norwegian jobs, and it will build Norway as a knowledge nation in the years to come. We prioritise knowledge in school through a large-scale effort on the continuing training of teachers. The most important single factor we have in raising students' learning outcomes in school is the teachers. When the debate on this goes, the red-green politicians have often let go of the sport of saying that everyone agrees that the teacher is important. Maybe that's why they don't want to do so much with it. There's a difference between offering 1,850 places, as the government does today, and 4,300 places, as the Right does. This gives the opportunity to also demand – and more clearly – that municipalities carry out continuing training and that teachers meet the requirements of competence, including those who are out of school. The path to good teachers begins with a five-year master's degree, which recruits the best students, but if we are to increase the competence of all teachers, we simply need to have a greater pressure on continuing education. Then we have to start doing things where it works the most. That is why we are proposing to change today's educational aid scheme to become a bet in high school. It is then that parents start struggling to hang on to the syllabus. For those who thought the Pythagorean theorem was difficult in the ninth grade, it hasn't become easier to explain it to their children today, if you didn't learn it that time. The sum of better teachers and a more targeted teaching aid effort is exactly what we do to raise knowledge in breadth. But we're also going to do more to raise the knowledge at the top. We're almost going to grant $12 billion. more on higher education, research and development. Of this, 50 million is going to be going to be. kr is used to develop world-leading university environments. The government often boasts of its commitment to research, but as Vice-Chancellor at the University of Oslo, Ole Petter Ottersen, said: "It helps little to take two steps forward if the rest of the world runs." Where knowledge in breadth is to ensure that we have enough competent people to solve the challenges of our society in the future, we need knowledge at the top that can provide groundbreaking research. That's why we are so committed to knowledge and competence, but also because knowledge is important to solving some of the social challenges we see in our society. The labour market requires more competence. Technology is becoming more central. Knowledge is important to ensure social mobility and to enable each individual in our society to use their own abilities. Not everyone in our society gets to take part in an exciting work life. Unfortunately, some cannot – we need to ensure a good safety net for them. But many want to participate, but don't get the opportunity. Although Norway has had many new jobs in the last seven years, the employment rate is about the same as in 2005 – 69,4 pst. of September. Some groups are hit harder than others. We are getting more and more young people disabled, and more and more people with disabilities are out of work. It's not good for the individual. No youth would be met with the answer from society that there is simply no need for you. That's not good for society, because we should find room to use also those that are not 100 pst. effective. This is why right-wing concerns about well-being that works. We want to provide grants to municipalities to help young people get into work, and we want to help companies that employ people with disabilities, using more wage subsidies. In the same way, we're building down the barriers to employing people who've got a wrong start to life, or who have reduced vision or hearing, or who depend on wheelchairs at work. It will provide a more inclusive working life, and it will allow us to get into more good forces in our society. So there is a lot of good going on in Norway. We should actually be happy about that. But there is an increasing trend towards more differences in school, the number of young people in disability is rising, and the number of people with disabilities in work is falling. The Labour Party is currently saying that they will take Norway further, but in these areas I hope they will admit that they are on the wrong track. Here, in fact, progress is going in the wrong direction. When, according to the then chairman of the Programme Committee, and everyone was to get an offer from day one, the care centre – which was a priority – rests on the spot with regard to waiting time for treatment, four years later, it is probably not a direction that we believe is right, while choosing to make good operational offers. The government's attitude doesn't solve part of these challenges, because the government is currently more concerned about telling about everything that goes well than trying to solve what's not going well enough. Our alternative state budget has new ideas. It has better solutions to raise knowledge for everyone in school. It has new ideas and better solutions to get more from social security to work. It continues our work to bring down health cows and to create safe jobs. Our alternative state budget has a direction towards well-being that works. It will help us to have knowledge and competitiveness to build Norway for the future. I think these are priorities that would have provided not only a good welfare in Norway today, but actually also for a welfare in the future that is going to be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1698	The questions that Erna Solberg now raised are already carefully commented on, especially by the Prime Minister in his contributions. My line is about something else: something that I see as very important in this debate, and a very central theme. It's about the fact that we've always seen that there's no overall financial arrangement from the opposition. Of course, one of the issues that is very central in this regard is the use of money. The Progress Party has now argued with gravity its relationship with money use and the rule of action. The representatives of Sanner and Solvik-Olsen talk a lot about this and won't challenge each other. Truers try not to answer concrete questions. But now we have reached the border, the representative of Solberg, and I ask you, are you behind the Progress Party's understanding of the use of the rule of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1703	We in the Right are concerned that we should conduct a responsible economic policy. We are concerned that we have a good starting point for this. The 4 pst. real return from the oil fund that we've said we're going to base over time. But then we are also very concerned about one thing: we are going to spend the money we have – taking out oil money – in areas that we quite agree with the Progress Party should be given priority: infrastructure, growth-enhancing tax reliefs, education and research – plus the President's contribution as the case rapporteur in the communication to the Stortinget, namely school – the things that the Stoltenberg I government did to the other part of the rule of action. The problem today is that the undermining of the rule of action is done by the red-green parties, who do not spend the money that we take extra into the oil economy, to build the welfare of the future. They're using it for consumption today, but they're not investing too little in research and variety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1708	Now I'm getting really worried. Now I gave the parliamentary leader of the Right a chance to comment on the understanding of the Rules of Action of the Progress Party. She doesn't. We've never been in doubt about Right Understanding. We've agreed on this, Mr. Solberg. I can say it that way: the working party would never have gone into a government if it was unclear about the use of money. It worries me whether Solberg will not answer, if she does not answer now, whether she will stand firm on the understanding of the rule of action and take away from the characteristics of Solvik-Olsen, that the rule of action as we foreshadow it, among other things. is ideological and bureaucratic, as he said here in Stortinget a few hours ago. Can we not now get a clear answer to this? This is really a central point of this financial debate, and that's the last one before we meet the voters again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1713	I could have thought of reminding the representative Martin Kolberg of what the Central Party parliamentary leader said in exactly the same debate in the autumn of 2004. Then Marit Arnstad said that the rule of action was a rule without content – it was a political speck without content, I think was about what she used as a concept. So you agreed on this one year before the election. So my attitude to this is very clear: I'm answering for the Right's point of view related to this. What becomes a problem is that the Labour Party's way of dealing with the whole compromise around the rule of action makes Marit Arnstad a little more right. It's no longer a perspective on what we're spending our money on, that we're building growth capacity in the Norwegian economy. There's only one perspective on the number of dollars going into the Norwegian economy. Of course, if we increase growth capacity, gross domestic product increases because we've invested the right amount of money, we have a better room in the economy to solve things in the future – and then there's a better way to spend them. But the right is on its point of view: we have to keep both parts and the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1723	Today’s Business Today, a significant number of the richest in Norway will become zero-taxors. Erna Solberg has written something excellent in her book «Humans, not billions» that she will never sit in a government that accepts that some of the richest become zero-taxers. My question is whether the Right Leader is still standing by that promise, or whether it has the same status as the promises of intercity expansion and continuous admission into the kindergartens, which Right has cancelled in the last week. And if yes, that she still stands by this, why does the Right provide an alternative budget that only contains measures that move us closer to the reintroduction of zero taxpayers, and no measures that ensure that the richest in Norway pay more taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1728	We have not cancelled the promise of continuous babysitting. It is a proposal in our programme that will be adopted at the national meeting and will be discussed at that time. We haven't run from any promises about intercity either, but we've said that if we don't build enough now, it's hard to keep the schedule that we've had in the past. We've been much clearer than the red-green parts on a clear prioritization of the intercity solutions. So to the question of changes in property taxes: Yes, I'm about to say that we're not going to end up with a system that makes people who make money become zero taxpayers. If people lose money, we also have to admit that it is a little difficult for them to pay taxes. I think it is incredibly strange that in this debate there is no one from the red-greens who has any concern about the companies that are actually losing money and draining the capital they are going to use to build the company and the jobs further. It's a pure envy rhetoric. I understand SV, but I do not understand the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1735	In the VG last week, the representative Erna Solberg said about the property tax: «Now we look at different models. When we're done, we're going to present the direction in our proposals." I wonder when the Right is finished, and if Erna Solberg can promise that the proposal for avoiding zero-taxors will come before the big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1745	As I said in the VG, which in and of itself was a great look, inspired by the fact that Audun Lysbakken had read my book, and I am pleased – I hope he has read the other things about knowledge and education too, which is important in the future and had been an inspiration for a new and better policy also for SV: We can promise that we will show the direction of this. We're not going to do what this government has done, and as Kristin Halvorsen writes in the book she recently published. There she writes that everything that has to do with property taxes, and especially taxes on housing, is so intense that the government deliberately waited for the election to make proposals for changes. We're open and honest. It was obviously not this government, which in 2009 would not tell them that they were going to increase the housing valuations, and that they were going to make changes to tighten the property tax. It was a deliberate strategy if you read the book to Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1750	I think I heard the representative Solberg mention that we have an economy without growth. Let me say that an economy without growth had not created 340,000 new jobs and the lowest unemployment in Europe. But what I'm going to ask you is a little bit about agricultural policy. Norway’s Bondelag has said, as a comment on the Hierre’s proposal on extensive cuts in agriculture, ‘We are not saturated by tax havens’. Right will cut the agricultural budget by 1.8 billion. kr, and the Right will also reverse the Government's proposal for customs changes. What is said by the Norwegian Bond Team is that the Right's budgetary options will provide dramatically reduced income for farmers, as they have calculated recently. My question to Solberg's representative is: How does Højre's leader and the party Right react to the slaughter of Norway's Bondelag of Højre's agricultural policy, and how does one react to the feedback received from the industry on the draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1759	I think it's a good idea if the representative Lars Peder Breck reads our alternative state budget and the comments in the financial position and not the Farmer's possible variants of it. Our reduction in aid is 941 million. kr. ==References== half of it goes back to the farmers again in terms of the sum of tax reliefs and other changes. Then we propose significant liberalisation in e.g. the way you can manage your properties, which will give you revenue from its conversion. What we have said to the Farmer in relation to the horror propaganda they have sent around is that they have to go in and see what we actually propose in this year's budget as a result of the work we have had on our alternative agricultural policy and alternative agricultural message that we made last year, which means that we have adjusted on some points in relation to how we think we should make a speedy contribution to seeking both a more viable agriculture and a more competitive agriculture, and in fact also contribute to the fact that it does not cost so much on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1766	I would like to follow it up, in order to characterise Norway's Bondelag's calculations, which I think are made by economists from the NILF, such as "fright propaganda", are a little special when talking about the country's largest organisation in the agricultural industry. It is beyond doubt that the Norwegian League of Bonds, like us, also reacts to the cuts proposed, and they have made concrete calculations. We're talking about cuts in incomes of hundreds of thousands for individuals, as they've presented it. How will the Right increase Norwegian food production in the future when such a starting point is given for the framework and instruments of the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1773	We've told the Farm what we think about those calculations. We have even been in dialogue with them, and they have said that they have interpreted us in different areas, a bit mixed, from different documents. That's why we're saying it's horror propaganda. So it's not like they've done calculations of the kind that you're trying to have, you've interpreted a number of things that we think are quite wrong. We hope they're honest. They would like to pursue central party policies and be actors of the central party in politics, but they should be tidy if they are to be taken seriously as a party to interact in the future and not operate with easily understood calculations of that type. That's still the way we have a $941 million cut. kr in our alternative budget. About half of it is covered by the tax reliefs that we have calculated. In addition, we provide much greater freedom for farmers to use their land and areas. I think that if we, for example, Stimulating a little greater use and a little more cooperation, we're actually going to create predictability and optimism for many more farmers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1780	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1783	We have gone into the eighth year with SV in government. It has been a good time for Norway. The budget we are about to deal with shows in the field according to field SV's influence in Norwegian policy. Our course is a course for the environment and justice, for spending the great money on the biggest challenges, and for balancing differences and combating climate change. While differences are increasing throughout Europe, since 2005, Norway has been going the opposite way. The differences in income have decreased. An important reason for this is a tax policy that has ensured that the wealthiest pay more to the community at the same time as many ordinary people pay less. When the right-hand side ruled the country, the property tax was largely a pensioner's tax. Now it's far more of a richer tax. We have reduced the number of people who pay property taxes by 560,000 since 2005, and the bottom line has increased from 151 000 at the time to 870000 kroner with the 2013 draft budget. Shortly before climate negotiations begin in Doha, new knowledge of climate change is drawing an increasingly dramatic picture of the threat we are facing. The International Energy Agency states that most of the fossil energy resources we have left in the world cannot be burned if we are to reach the two-degree target. Nothing suggests that the powers of the world are ready to take on the obligations of emission reductions that are necessary to prevent such developments. Then it is very important that rich countries, such as Norway, take the lead. That is what we do by taking on commitments, taking action as cutters in our own emissions, and using our wealth to invest in the development of new technologies that can contribute to global reductions in the future. The proposal for a State budget follows up the climate agreement. We're increasing the appropriations for the railway by almost 15 pst. With that, we have almost doubled the appropriations and tripled railway investment since 2005. Public transport is increasing by a total of 64 p.p., while more pedestrian and cycle routes are being allocated. Environmental technologies are increasingly being invested, and the appropriations for combating deforestation abroad are increasing. The CO2 tax on the base increases by 200 kroner per tonne, and climate research gets a boost. There are those who rarely reach when the large money is to be distributed. These are those who don't have powerful lobbyists or large select groups in their backs. However, with government SV, the most difficult children in Norway have been seen. In this budget, we are building on the child-restraint promise, the greatest promise for municipal child-rescue in Norway of 20 years. Municipal Child Protection is strengthened by an additional 205 million. kr and approximately 270 earmarked posts, at the top of the many new posts that have already strengthened the first line of child protection in recent years. It is a very important investment in the future of Norway. We have too many poor children in Norway. The big change in recent years is that poverty is becoming more and more ethnic. Many immigrant families face major challenges in the Norwegian labour market. This means that the challenges facing the fight against poverty have changed. We see that, and that's why we're launching the Jobjeansen programme in this budget. It will give women with a migrant background a new opportunity to get into work and thus lift both themselves and their children out of poverty. Increasing teacher density is one of the most important things we can do to improve school in Norway. We have to balance the social differences in learning. We can do that by providing better opportunities for the individual teacher to see the individual student. Several teachers are a concrete answer to that challenge. That's why we're earmarking money for new teaching positions: 600 new teachers in high school with the greatest professional and social challenges. It is an investment in knowledge and increased learning that the Norwegian society will benefit from over time. Since 2005, the research has had a real growth of 32 pst. We provide more places of study and bets on the construction of student housing. We focus on knowledge and innovation all the way from kindergarten to higher education and research. Family policy has been radically changed by government SV. It is no longer about providing support to families who choose not to work, but about making it possible for women to combine work and children. A children's playground costs approx. 25 000 SEK less a year than it would have done if the price level today corresponded to the level before the kindergarten reform. We've built 60,000 new sites and reduced prices by one-third. At the same time, we have developed the world's best parental leave scheme. There are now two weeks extra paperwork from 1 July next year, so that the total parental leave increases from 47 to 49 weeks. SV has been at the forefront of a historical extension of the leave scheme. Strengthening solidarity with the world's poor is an honour for Sv. We're increasing assistance by 2.4 billion. have doubled the budget since 2005. This is how we go ahead in Norway and maintain an effort equivalent to 1 pst. of gross national income, GNI. At the same time, our development policy places more emphasis on the importance of distribution for development and on an environmentally friendly development policy. It's not just going to be more money, it's going to be used in a better way. We listen to the recordings we get, even after the government's draft budget has been submitted. That's why we're also making changes. For SV, it was important to give more to treatment trips abroad because we know that this offer is of great importance torevmaticians and several other groups. They asked for increased appropriations, and they were heard. The election campaign is in progress. We see this clearly in this debate. In SV we have had the earliest election campaign start of the time. That's because a lot is on the game September 9th next year. The right-hand side option is something new – bluer and more radical than before. It is time for the right-wing parties to respond clearly to what they want with Norway. When these challenges come, we now see that the Right is running from promise after promise. Right means something different about intercity development today than they did this summer. After relying on the government for several years because the continuous admission into kindergartens has not been introduced, we could read in the evening post before the weekend that the Right's promise has been cancelled. For years, the Right has criticized the government for not all fathers being granted the right to obtain the right to obtain the paper issue. Last year, the estimate in the alternative budget was between 350 and 650 million. kr, this year there is not a kron, just a guard proposal for a review. Nor are the rainforest obligations on the right, and students at private colleges that were promised larger scholarships earlier this year have suddenly been informed that this is no longer the case. It is to trick the voters into leaking over a whole growing period and then come right before the election and tell them that the promises were not meant to be serious. Therefore, we are excited to see a clarification of what promises Right have been made. A promise we know is priority, is to remove the property tax, with the consequences it will have for the differences in Norway. I am pleased that today we have been told that, before the elections, Erna Solberg and Right will come up with their proposal on how to avoid that this leads to rich people in Norway becoming zero-taxors. It is a very important issue, both because the removal of property taxes will drain the community of large resources and because it will mean increasing differences in Norway, not only between income groups but between regions and between sexes. It is therefore essential that this proposal should be put on the table before the elections, as Mrs Solberg has promised today. The alternative budgets of the right side also show the back of the medal. Many ordinary employees will have higher expenditure on more expensive kindergartens with the alternative budget of the Right than they will have increased income through the marginal tax havens of the Right to ordinary people. There is a lot of talk about enforcement at the moment. So somebody's trying to make it look like there's little difference in Norwegian policy, as if the options are just about who's best to implement things that everybody's agreed on. In fact, we are facing a choice of roads in Norway. SV will make Norway redder and greener. We have the courage to implement the major changes needed to make Norway a low-carbon society. It's in the next few years that it's decided whether we're going to achieve our emission targets or not. We want to keep reducing the differences, because we know that a society with little differences is a good society to live in for most people. The majority in this room will choose a budget for community and solidarity instead of alternatives that will increase differences and privatisation. This debate shows that we are seriously engaged in an election campaign, and Norwegian voters can make the same choice as us in September next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1830	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1834	The representative was concerned with the climate. It's an important topic. The Progress Party also wants to contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. Among other things, we have wished to improve the depreciation rules for environmentally friendly investments, energy saving and so on. But then the government warns and says that if we get depreciation rules that do not reflect the technical lifetime, we can risk overinvesting in certain things in the Norwegian economy. This means, among other things: the government's policy depreciates a windmill over a period of 16-17 years, while the oil industry is allowed to depreciate its investment for 6 years. The eco-fiction field, which was just 40 years old, is technically expected to live for 6 years. That means that this government says that a windmill lives three times longer than an oil platform. I would have thought it might be the opposite. But today’s policy – with SV – means that one should not invest in wind power, nor should one invest in oil. Is it really right that it should be like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1842	Current policies provide for a sharp increase in investment in new renewable energy. I do not know the details of the proposals of the Advance Party. I am always open to considering proposals, but it is especially true that climate criticism comes from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen. He still represents a party that one must be able to say appears with a slightly cracking profile on climate issues. The representative of Solvik-Olsen is very generously defending the research that has shown us that climate change is real, and that it is necessary to do something, while other figures for the same party are freeing those parts of opinion that would not believe at all. There is no doubt that it inhibits and weakens the credibility and pervasiveness of Solvik-Olsen in these kinds of questions that the Progress Party is unable to clear up what the party really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1847	I take it as a confirmation that the issue is not of particular concern to the Lighthouse. However, with regard to the cracking profile, it is precisely SV that expresses skepticism about oil investment, which nevertheless benefits when the depreciation rules are to be distributed. Another example is the airline SAS, to which the government has repeatedly given extra oil money to save the company. Now they're going to get a loan, but the government hasn't put money on the risk side. That means that one gives them oil money on the outside of the rule of action. As you know, people have to fly less, while the government's policy is to maintain the airlines. The Progress Party has proposed in this budget that a company which invests more in rail should be set up, while tax relief should be granted for the use of public transport. It says the government is using oil money by stealing them from our children. So giving oil money to SAS is okay, but building the railway is not okay. Is that logical?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1856	The government's objective is, as you know, that SAS should be able to cope as a commercial carrier without having to make State contributions. But operating one of our big airlines in bankruptcy would be a special way of trying to wind up air traffic. I don't expect Solvik-Olsen to do that either. The way to make sure that in the future we can use more environmentally friendly transport solutions than aircraft is to build more efficient routes on those routes where today a lot is flown. I register the new interest of the Progress Party in railway investment. But I also see that the profile of the alternative budget of the Progress Party is still mostly about road. The progress party has still not left its desire to ridicule the vision of lightning trains in Norway, which will be the most necessary step to take if we are to achieve a ‘aircraft strike’ on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1861	I see in the minutes of the SV National Board meeting that Audun Lysbakken has the ambition to make SV a health party. Then I expect that the Lighthouse also agrees with me that the patients who are at the bottom of the table today are patients who are addicted and mentally ill. These are patients who have not received sufficient priority and are currently waiting for a long time for treatment. Many people also feel that treatment is not related. It is therefore important that these patients are prioritised and actually prioritised at the expense of the group of patients who have always had large growth, i.e. those who are somatically ill. The funding system ensures that there is constant attention around those patients. What, then, is the reason why the government SV has removed the priority scheme that the Right introduced and that we had for russians and psychiatric patients, namely that the growth of each health business – individually, every year – should be higher for drug and psychiatric than for somatics?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1868	This government's aim is to be able to strengthen the areas of drugs and psychiatry. Within the now voted-through health budget, there is scope for significant growth. But I share the representative's concern about parts of the drug problem in Norway. We can't be satisfied when there are many people who don't get the help they need quickly enough, and who in some cases seem to get the wrong help. That's why we need care with the capacity to help everyone and with the necessary quality and breadth of action to meet those addicts in different ways, because we know that there are different things that work. That's why we're keeping the balance between somatics, drugs and psychiatry, and that's why we're committed to making sure that we have good, long-term conditions, not least for the ideal actors who run many of the best offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1873	The representative Lightbaking was very high and dark in his post regarding the relationship between what he promised and what he implements. I realized that here the Lighthouse spoke again about what SV promised. But everyone sees what SV does when they get into government: one removes the priority of ruspacents and psychiatric patients. In this state budget, SV also removes the earmarking of 330 million. kr to the municipalities, which offers an offer to the most vulnerable patients. SV is in a government led by the Prime Minister. He held a post here in the Storting where he in his half post spoke about the importance of taxing the rich, but he did not mention ruspacens, psychiatric patients, or the poor with a single word. Doesn't this say anything about SV talking nice about rushes and psychiatry in election programs and election campaigns, but when they sit in government, they sit quietly and watch these patients down prioritized when it comes to donating money and priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1880	No, because drug treatment efforts are reinforced, we are concerned with continuing that course and strengthening it further and being open to new ideas. But there is little evidence to suggest that the new ideas come from the Right, precisely because the Right does not want to give priority to health policy. With the new privatisation model of the Right, it will be that it is those who make the most of their history – those who know their rights best, those who live almost a private clinic – who can first meet their needs. I fear that the consequences of that just will be that the weakest come further in the queue than today. Health policy will be more and more about priorities, and therefore we cannot have what the Right calls a free choice of treatment. Rather, we must have political courage to give priority to those who need it the most, first. We're about to strengthen both the rush and the psychiatry, but we have to do more. That's what SV's going to do in front of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1885	Here there was a lot one could take hold of, but I noticed that the Light Hill referred to that the opposition, or the alternative, had become much more blue and more radical than ever. I think it's sad that radical has become a fy-word for SV. It might have something to do with Ola Borten Moe. That's to what I want to ask questions, because we as many as possible up to the knowledge acquisition that the Light Hill had ordered, about the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja and possible petroleum activity there. On Friday, the responsible state council sent out a press release in which he wrote: ‘Let’s get more activity in already opened area in the north-east Norwegian Sea now, including open part of Northland VI.’ Both Lysbakken and I know that Nordland VI is Lofoten. So the government council wants to open the Lofoten next fall. Is it such that one can either not trust the responsible State Council and what he writes in the government's press releases, or has SV already reached a compromise that the Lofoten will open next autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1895	It might be very good to be radical, but it depends on what direction you are. It is essential for the SV to keep the oil industry away from the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. It is government policy that during this period the oil industry has not received access, either to Northland VI, VII or Troms II. We in SV are very proud that we have received this – twice. I have the very clear ambition on behalf of SV that we will now win the election one more time and get it for a third time. What is contained in the management plan, which makes these areas unopened, is government policy. On the other hand, I am very concerned about the consequences of the Christian People's Party and the Left have said on the government issue, namely that they can imagine opening up to a minority government of the Right and the Advance Party. That's the scenario that is most likely to add up to the Lofoten and the West Pole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1902	I have been interested in reading SV's new wholesale selection program, and there is a lot of good and correct, especially in the field of research. There is even a need to strengthen the FUNN. All of this is Left and I agree, and we have proposed it in every budget for the last eight years, often with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. SV has voted against. Yes, SV has not only voted against, they have actually directed the department that has been responsible for following up on what SV is going to choose. What SV has done in government in research policy is that they have pressed the big button – the big break button – especially in the field of industrial research. In the budget that we are about to adopt, nutrient research accounts for an increase of 40 million. kr, i.e. corresponding to 0.03 pst. by the growth of research claimed by the government to have entered the budget. My question to SV should be easy to answer: What budget option has enabled SV to carry out its research effort – Left or Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1908	I think it is very nice that the representative Skei Grande is reading SV's program, and I hope it can be an inspiration for more people. It's absolutely right that we have high ambitions for research. I'm glad we share those ambitions with the Left. The image of a big pause button simply doesn't fit reality, because since 2005, we've had a real growth in research of 32 pst. The figures were significantly lower when the Left put in government. I don't know if it was a rewind, but at least it wasn't impressive. We've taken some further steps. That's how society and politics evolve, so that we build rocks. Now, we've been spending a lot of money in the last few years, and we're busy both getting bigger appropriations in the years to come, and not least getting a structure around the research effort, so that we get even more out of the effort in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1913	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1916	Ever since the autumn of 2008 – for a total of four years – the debate on the financial position has been behind the great contrast between the uncertainty we experience in the international economy and the security and stability that most of us experience in the Norwegian economy. Many countries in Europe are in a dramatic economic situation. The causes are complex, but one thing is also clear: many countries have probably lived far beyond their ability over a long period of time. For the Centre Party, the red-green policy stands for the safe and long-term road choices. We don't get everything. We have a lot left to fight for. However, we prioritise instruments that ensure employment and employment, the cohesion of economic and geographical differences and the stability of business. We want to ensure well-being and secure services based on a good public economy. It is, of course, tempting to provide tax relief, but less income will necessarily also be less able to cover the costs. The consequences of this could be fewer public welfare assets and greater differences. This is how some of the problems in southern Europe have arisen. That's why we have a big responsibility not only to make the priorities that are popular, but also to dare to make the choices that first become popular in the long term. Using more money is not always unwise, it's how you spend the money, which decides. In these demanding times, many of us are grateful that the Norwegian people have said no to EU membership. We can continue to control our own economic policies. But no one should believe that we are still handsome to notice the crisis in the future. We can also experience that several industries experience market failures, for example. in fish exports. Other export industries may also be threatened over time as a result of the crisis, uncertainty and instability in our main export market Europe. Is our budgetary response, then, more uncertain and unstable in economic policy? Or is it continuing to reinforce that direction and the choices we've been making in recent years? Customs protection is one of the pillars of Norwegian agricultural and food policy and is essential for maintaining and increasing food production throughout the country. It was, and is, therefore, absolutely necessary to modernise customs duties on many agricultural products that were at risk of being competed with by cheaper goods from abroad. Without effective and strong customs protection, Norwegian food production and large parts of the Norwegian food industry will, of course, be risky in competition with goods produced in countries with completely different costs and not least entirely different natural conditions for food production. The cross-political consensus on the maintenance of agriculture should also lead to an agreement on the importance of strong customs protection. Trade policy is important. We have to put away the naivety of trade policy. International trade policy is rigidly realism. This means, of course, that we in Norway should also take advantage of the scope of action contained in the different agreements we have. The government does. It's the Center Party occupied. And so does every other country. There are almost no countries or politicians who openly create uncertainty about their own country’s food production. Internationally, national food production remains fundamental to safety and stability. Recently, we have been presented with the alternative budgets of the various parties. We then get a good insight into the options in Norwegian politics and we get the dividing lines between the red-green parties and the opposition. I have already mentioned the customs matter. I could mention in the same breath other parts of agricultural and food policy. The options are very obvious between red-green stability and long-term growth, compared to the alternative budget proposals of the blue-blue right-hand side. There are proposals for changes to the systems, cut transfers and thus reduced income and investment in primary production and food industries. In this room, the wealth tax has been mentioned many times today – even here the government has made a choice of direction. We do not initiate arbitrary measures, but we conduct a responsible, comprehensive and long-term policy. The government has taken considerable steps to make the taxes on wealth more redistributive and fairer. The share that pays taxes on wealth is reduced from 2005 to 2013 from 34 to 16 pst. of the tax collectors. 590,000 taxpayers have been reduced in taxes on wealth, and 115,000 receive increased taxes on wealth. This means that many small businesses are dropping or getting a low wealth tax through the changes the government has made. It was claimed, among other things, that: in view of the collection of taxes on wealth that Norway has a heavier overall taxation of business than the countries with which our enterprises compete. That's not the right picture. The total tax on company profits and dividends in Norway is probably 48 p.m. This is in line with or slightly lower than comparable countries. Norwegian tax policy is stable and secure with the red-green government and provides good, long-term framework conditions for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1946	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1949	The Center Party leader, Liv Signe Navarsete, and NHO’s former director, John G. Bernander, thundered against the property tax during a visit to Aass Bryggeri in Drammen on 13 December 2011. In Norway’s largest brewery, more than two thirds of the proceeds go to property taxes. Navarsete and Bernander believe that it is urgent to investigate this strange tax before it does more damage, it says. The owner, Terje Aass, took out $12 million. NOK in dividends in 2011, and he had to pay NOK 850 000 in property tax. To BetterTax, Navarsete says that it is unfair to pay property taxes when a company is running short. I agree, so agree! Then there has been an attack on the Progress Party and the Right today, and it has been said that it is becoming unsocial and more to the rich. I have two questions: is Terje Aass becoming one of the kingdoms that are now to be taken? What does the Central Party actually think about the property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1960	Let me first underline that my knowledge of Aass Brewery is quite good – not least the situation in which Aass Brewery is. They're capable, it's a well-run local, family-owned company. This is how the wealth tax can sometimes have unfortunate consequences – I see that when the representative Svendsen points it out. But what the government has done for a long time — over all years — is to improve the framework conditions for business through changes in property taxes. We've made changes that are good for a lot of people. Let me stress that my ambition is that we should continue to work to improve the framework conditions for business through reasonable adjustments and adjustments to the taxes on wealth, as we have already done. As I mentioned in my post, almost 600,000 have been reduced property taxes, among them many small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1969	In a line exchange with Erna Solberg a little while ago, the representative, Breck, says that the Bondelag has made concrete calculations that show that there will be considerable losses in agriculture in Norway if the Right Policy is implemented. These concrete calculations are based on a number of assumptions. One assumes a price decrease, one doesn't use the Right numbers from the alternative budget, one doesn't include the tax reliefs that have been introduced, and one adds a number of changes to subsidies that we haven't written anywhere, but as it suits the Bondelage to assume. However, the worst thing about Mr Breck's posts is that he says that the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Research has calculated this. They haven't done that at all. I would like him to either repeat it or demand it. They've only accepted the premises made by the League of Bonds. Everyone knows that two plus two is four, no matter how you do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1976	It is probably right that the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research has accepted the premises of the Landelag and that it has therefore been calculated. That's what the fleet representative here stresses. What's surprising to me is the violent will to defend the Right towards Norwegian agriculture. Of course, the budgetary measures that have come with the Right, the uncertainty created by those proposals, feel very strongly negative in the agricultural sector. I understand well those who have now invested – those whom the Right says they should take care of, the big farmers – it is primarily those who are threatened by being cut in transfers, that it is cut in framework conditions, and that there are system changes, which are also proposed. Let me just say that I take note of what the Fleet says about the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, but at the same time, what the League has made is a starting point that the Right should take more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1985	I think the representative Breck is wise to check the premises in several areas. The right does not make dramatic changes to any trader in the country, and the representative Breck should know that. I notice that even in the area of property taxes, it might be a good idea to check the premises. The center party is busy building the whole country – and I believe them in that, it's also right. When you travel around the country, you see how the private diversity of ownership keeps the country – and many jobs – going. What we've heard today is you're drawing an enemy image of this ownership. The Prime Minister stood on the platform and said they did not contribute. There must be pain in many centre-participators, and it must be pain in many small business owners around Norway to be stamped as not contributing. What makes the Center Party so easily accept that premise as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e1994	We don't accept that premise -- and that's wrong, what you're saying. I don't feel that it's drawn an enemy image of business owners and those who make good money. We have them, and we must have them in this country. What we have said, as the Prime Minister has also said, is that the policy proposed by the Right in relation to taxes on wealth creates greater differences and creates unfortunate solutions geographically and economically in the industry. It creates differences between those who have less, and those who have more. It has to be right-hand. This is a consequence of the proposals that have been included in the budget, and it cannot be skipped.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2001	Both the parliamentary leader, Lars Peder Breck, and I know that many farmers around the country are struggling to get the ends to meet, and that the agricultural settlement did not give farmers the necessary increase in income. We see that the tax system also has an adverse effect on the active farmers. The profit from the sale of agricultural land is currently taxed as revenue by up to 50 pst. if operating on the farm. If there is no operation on the farm, the gain is taxed by up to 28 pst. In other words, tax rules give incentives to shut down operations. The Christian People's Party wants the sale of agricultural land, whether voluntary or involuntary, to be exempted from taxation if the gain is reinvested in the agricultural holding. Does the Centre Party support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2011	Over the years we have been in government, since 2005, we have changed tax policy many times. This also applies in the field of agriculture. Among other things, while I was in government, there have been changes in the food production fee, depreciation rates for agricultural buildings, etc. It is clear that we are constantly looking for fair and good tax policy solutions that meet the needs of the individual and the needs of the community. The example of the representative Andersen Eide mentioned here is some of the things that need to be worked on further. It is one of the things that I think we in the Center Party should follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2020	I think the representative Ropstad asked a bit bad question to SV, but I think it is quite relevant to ask the Center Party. Minister of Oil and Energy Ola Borten Moe of the Senterpartiet said on Friday that he recommended the government to open up oil drilling in Nordland VI – i.e. oil drilling outside Lofoten – after the 2013 elections. Minister of State Liv Signe Navarsete, also from the Central Party, has said that oil drilling in Lofoten is not relevant as a central party policy. Is the Head of Parliament of the Central Party in agreement with the State Council of the Central Party Ola Borten Moe, or with the State Council of the Central Party Liv Signe Navarsete?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2025	I think it is very good that before the weekend we got a review of the knowledge acquisition that has happened, as far as Lofoten is concerned, where one also heard the oil and energy minister's recommendation for further process of oil drilling – or choice of way between fish and oil in Lofoten. I am from a coastal municipality where fishing and farming are essential. I have been a fisheries minister and I have always said that I give very high priority to the fishing industry in the debate on the Lofoten/Westerålen area, but I will go with open eyes into the discussion to which the oil and energy minister invites me. It is necessary for all of us to take, and I think we need to find good solutions, both through the program work in the Center Party and through the work to be done by the government, in terms of the follow-up to the knowledge acquisition that has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2032	I don't quite understand what the Center Party thinks about property taxes on working capital. In the party newspapers Nations from 4 October last year, it says: «Sp supports changes in taxes on wealth. Enterprises are hit hard and unfairly when they have to tax buildings and means of production, says Center Party leader Liv Signe Navarsete.’ It goes on to say: ‘It’s very nice that the LO manager now realizes the same thing that I’ve done for a long time. Many business owners feel that it is unfair to have to take out values from the companies in order to be able to pay taxes this year when they may even have a deficit," says Navarsete." In this debate, we get a strong impression that the wealth tax is very important – and that is without exception – while the centre party has been very much in order to eliminate a wealth tax on working capital, and then a person can keep it on personal wealth. Then the question is, does the Centre want to remove the property tax on working capital, as they said last year? Or is one now opposed to it, like one says this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2051	Let me just point out one thing: the central party does not want to remove the property tax on capital. We have a program formulation that says we want to remove the wealth tax on working capital – that's right. There is a big difference, because it means that there has to be a delimitation if the proposal is to be implemented in practice. We've been working on that in the government. We have not been able to get through it, but instead we have had an impact on significant changes in the last few years in the area of property taxes and in the area of bottom deductions and changes there. It has improved the situation for individuals and for small business owners who are subject to the changes. We want to continue working with the property tax to get it even better, but we are concerned that we should not destroy the distribution effect of the property tax. It's quite obvious that if you take away the property tax completely, it will create greater differences, and that's what we're opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2058	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2061	‘Work force is our most important resource. The basis for well-being is provided through the work of the population, and it is therefore necessary to facilitate high levels of professional participation.’ I shouldn't be surprised if the Minister of Finance thought this was a knocking well said thing, as he himself has formulated it this elegant way in the government's yellow book, the state budget for 2013. Those are the words we should all be able to sign. Even in the time of the oil fund, the work of the peoples is the basis for well-being. We will, shall and must facilitate high professional participation. Work for those who want and can work provides a basis for well-being. But it is also about human dignity. For this reason it must be difficult for the government to see that it is so bad to offer work to those of us who have reduced working capacity. There is a group that needs special labour market measures. At a time when there is a precarious shortage of labour in several industries, unemployment among the disabled in Norway is increasing. While the general unemployment rate goes down, it rises for the disabled. Occupational participation among young people with reduced working capacity falls from 44 pst. for less than 40 pst. from 2011 to 2012. We don't want it like that, and it shouldn't be like that. In the alternative budget, the Christian People's Party grants a total of 162 million. to create 5000 additional job vacancies, to help people with reduced working capacity enter the labour market. In alternative budget, the Christian People's Party strengthens the system with user-driven personal assistance. We'll allow 150 million. kr more to the scheme of the free resources of the municipalities. Users should be asked how and when to use their assistant. Today's system doesn't work well for young people. We will also increase the permissions of the disabled people by 14 million. kr, and we will strengthen Nav by 10.5 million. kr, in order to strengthen their efforts to provide employment to the disabled. Is this a cost item? Just in the first place, my Christian People's Party. In reality, this will increase the country's income. With more in work, the social security costs are reduced. Better arrangements will also make it easier for parents with disabled children to get more work outside the home. As found in the introduction section of the Yellow Book: ‘The basis for well-being is provided through the work of the population and it is therefore necessary to facilitate high levels of professional participation.’ We would like all the groups in our population to have equal opportunities to experience the work they want. Sometimes work is the government's answer, no matter what you ask. This may in some cases give rise to concern — for the poor, for the addicts, for the volunteers and for families. As wealth increases in Norway, some lag behind. A recent Nav report shows that child poverty is increasing. Over 100,000 children in Norway live in poor families. In our alternative budget proposal, which the Government Party is most welcome to support, we provide some answers to what this group can do to help. Work is a very good answer to a lot. Work is the most important way out of poverty. In order to get more people back to work, we will strengthen the provision of employment training and the activation and leisure services provided by volunteers and municipalities. But work is not an adequate response to those children who have parents who are not economically active. For they're not an answer at all. It is directly unfair that young mothers who are studying, or without a job, are entitled to only one single payment of around NOK 35000, while those who work can get up to 0.5 million. kr in parental pennies. This applies to about 11,000 Norwegian women every year. The Christian People's Party will more than double the one-time benefit at birth. There is also something that the Equality Selection points out in its new NOU that the difference between the parental and the disposable benefit has become disproportionate. The Christian People's Party will also increase social aid rates by 5 pst. We'll allow 80 million. to increase the guide rates of social assistance and introduce a national minimum standard of social assistance. The Christian People's Party proposes an exemption scheme for dental treatment for long-term social assistance recipients and participants in qualification programmes. We will also remove the characteristics of health services and medicines for the minimum pensioners, the disabled and the chronically ill. This is an approach that will improve the economy of the individual adult population, but it will not least help children of parents who are in such a situation. Should we reduce child poverty in Norway, the removal of cash support for the two-year-olds is also not a solution. It helps to increase the poverty of many families with children. The Christian People's Party proposes to introduce a new child tax deduction of NOK 5000 per child. It is a priority for families with children and will also be a targeted action to reduce child poverty. The child benefit shall be distributed among the families of children with the same profile as the child-restraint, i.e. that it will be most suitable for low-income families. The Christian People's Party sees the family first in its alternative budget. In addition to the children's deduction, the strengthening of the maternity benefit for young mothers and the reintroduction of cash support for two-year-olds, we would like to strengthen the quality of childcare facilities and introduce two main admissions into kindergartens. All children should have the right to babysitting – including those born after 1 September. One must be able to combine the interests of family life and working life. The starting point for the Christian People's Party is as it has been: Parents are replaceable at work, but irreplaceable home. Stoltenberg promised in 2009 12,000 new sick homes and nursing homes by 2015. We have to deliver on what Stoltenberg promised before the 2009 elections – not to keep his promise, but because the need increases. Unfortunately, the government is miles away from the original promise of 12,000 new hospitals. The Christian People's Party has three measures in the 2013 budget to move forward. We're proposing 715 million. More to the municipalities, we will increase the state incentive to 50 pst., and we will build 3 750 new hospitals. With the same efforts in 2014 and 2015, we will reach the target of 12,000 new sick homes in 2015. The Christian People's Party's alternative budget is a budget with a clear Christian-democratic profile as seen by the family first giving half a billion more to the fight against poverty and intoxication in Norway, which delivers to meet the Sickness Homelift Stoltenberg gave before the 2009 elections, but which he and the government have so far failed to hold that instead of all-day school bets on more and even better teachers that improve the framework for voluntary efforts both in their own countries and internationally that increase development aid to the world's poorest. Yes, the most important bet for the Christian People's Party is just the world's poorest. We are increasing efforts, and we are giving priority to Africa and to education, health and agriculture. Therefore, we can safely say that the Christian People’s Party is proposing a better budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2126	The Christian People's Party is, in the same way as the government party, occupied by familials. We prioritise families in all their different forms by strengthening the parental leave system, by extending their fathers' rights, keeping to the maximum price and not least ensuring work for all. The problem with the Christian People's Party is that they are now in danger of becoming the basis of the darkest blue government option over time. The seriousness is underlined by the former Christian People's Party leaders Bondevik and Hvarstad Haugland, for they have seen how much it costs. Some of the things that are at stake in such cooperation are dishes for fathers, the maximum price in kindergartens, protection against temporary additions and protection against the imposition of undesirable overtime work. If this is removed, the consequences for the family will be serious. Will the Christian People's Party really risk becoming co-responsible for a policy where the richest in the country get big tax cuts, while the child families get extra expenses and fathers get fewer dishes, and is this in line with the Christian People's Party's values?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2135	I am absolutely sure that Kjell Magne Bondevik and Valgerd Reply City Haugland are quite a few in that we need to replace a government that has chosen to remove the freedom of choice for families with children. Under the red-green regime there has been less flexibility and freedom of choice, among others. with the removal of cash support for the two-year-olds, a matter of Selected Reply City Haugland fighting through because she was busy that family members must be allowed to decide for themselves. And that's the challenge. Just in the family field, Christian People's Party has felt that this government has gone in the wrong direction. What I'm quite sure is that getting us to a shift at the 2013 elections will strengthen the family. That's what we do, for example. in our budget when we propose a tax deduction for all families of 4.5 billion. kr, just to be with and support family members. It's because we think they need greater freedom of choice and flexibility, and we're sure that we're going to be happy with a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2142	Although it did not appear very clearly in the Hareides post now, the Christian People's Party has clearly chosen a side to the government issue. They're going for civil cooperation. I am so excited about how the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are going to come together on smaller issues such as alcohol sales, opening hours on the holidays, etc., but also on the bigger and more important issues – one of them is aid and development policy. In terms of aid and development policy, the Christian People's Party and the Red-Green have much in common. The red-greens have doubled their efforts in terms of assistance. We have a 1 pst. goal of gross national income, while the Christian People's Party's collaborators cut. Right cutters in their alternative state budget, $1.5 billion. kr for aid, Advance Party cutter 7.5 bn. kr, none of which would have a fixed target for Norwegian level of assistance. How does the Christian People's Party feel about this? Can they guarantee that in a new government they will hold onto the 1 pst. goal that the red-greens have?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2152	I can guarantee that the Christian People's Party will hold on to the 1st. goal. It was under the Bondevik II government that goal, a very important goal, was seen. Our experience in managing, among other things. The right under the Bondevik II government was very good in terms of aid policy. I would like to say that the red-green government has delivered very good aid budgets, even though we have even greater ambitions in the current budget. But during the Bondevik II administration there was also a significant escalation of assistance, and it happened among other things. in cooperation with Right. We can also look at the Cameron Government in the United Kingdom. They've had to cut the public budget by a lot, so to speak, all the posts. But they have chosen not to cut into help. It shows that governments with a more non-socialistic character have also given priority to assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2161	I stand here with the agreement that Rigmor Aasrud, on behalf of the government, entered into with several organisations – KS and others – that relate to health and social services in the non-profit sector. It appears that one of the most important points is a dialogue forum, a meeting place, one to two times a year. There is an action room in the Public Procurement Code that has not been exploited. A guide shall therefore be drawn up and the procurement rules prepared to ensure the better performance of the non-profit sector. Health South-East is now entering into ongoing contracts that are due to be concluded over a long period of time, and the agreement that has been concluded causes me to ask the question: Tek Hareide distance from the manufacture of the Syversen today that the contract is not worth the paper he has written on?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2166	I do not distance myself from the representative Syversen said today. The government's agreement with voluntary organisations is a piece of work on the road, but it solves it, for example. not the problems that many non-profit institutions have about pension costs. The non-profit institutions assumed a pension obligation in both the 1960s and 1970s. In order to be part of the public supply, they had to have the same pension obligations as the public had. As a result, they currently have a higher pension cost than the institutions they compete with. This means that the commercials have an advantage over the ideals today. The agreement Meltveit Kleppa has on the speaker's chair does not solve the biggest challenge these institutions face, which is on retirement. So it's a step in the right direction, but it's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2171	What seemed to be the biggest appeal point here, is a selection the government has already dropped. That's what was the Syversen's case, that nothing was going to happen the next year because of this selection. It is now a fate's irony for the Christian People's Party that this selection has been reduced to see what action space the government can have in the future towards the non-profit sector because of processes occurring in the EU that, in the light of the EEA agreements, may set limits. When it concerns pension costs, I understand that it is a topic that is the subject of dialogue. When they also say that this is a template for more such agreements, I will repeat my question. I'm glad that Hareide says there's a step on the right path.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2178	I want to get serious about this. So we've experienced that a lot of non-profit institutions have been shut down in the last few years. HSH – no Active – says that if that pace continues, Norway will stand without non-profit institutions within 5–10 years. When the government has worked on this question, I think it's a big paradox that they haven't solved the biggest challenge – that goes on retirement – and that they're forced to put down a selection to look at it. The Christian People's Party is considerably more impatient. We think that the space of action that exists to help the ideals should have been used a long time ago, because evolution has been so dramatic in this field. These are actually ideals that are squandered by both other public institutions and commercial institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2185	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2188	The representative Torgeir Micaelsen began today talking about those who could build society and those who couldn't. Understood: it was only social democracy that could. I think there are a lot of people who can build communities, the question is which communities we build. The left was one of the main architects behind the welfare society we have today. Very many of the foundations on which this society is based were the wise and courageous leftists who appeared from this pulpit. I think politics is about being brave, about making bold decisions, about leading, and about drying out saying that something actually needs to change, that something has to be done. When we come up with suggestions in this room, sometimes – most often we are told that there is a wrong suggestion – we are told that there is something to look at, and that the government is grateful for the input. I don't think we're ever going to find out that this is going to happen. In the budget now presented by the Left, we dare to address what is fundamental – the trends that some people have to correct, the things that everyone sees are wrong, but we don't do anything about. Everyone sees that Mongstad is a wrong track. We're about to spend 10 billion. NOK on something that does not work. We see that we have more and more poor children, children growing up in families with persistently low incomes. We see that we have a school where we need more wise, good teachers. We see that at a time when Europe is really involved in a great change, a great saving, a great diet for the public sector and really tough changes for its business life, we should focus on research. We see that we have a fundamental under-funded popular security, as the Ministry of Finance writes in the Departmental Notice that is a problem. But there's nothing going on. The left has dared to be the little girl who sometimes has to tell that the emperor has no clothes on, whether it's Mongstad, popular or poverty. Maybe it's a little too brave sometimes, maybe we get too big enemies by doing it, but we still choose to do it in this budget. We're the little girl who says from when the emperor doesn't wear clothes. What we have, on the other hand, prioritised in our budget is the future and children. It is to bet on a knowledge policy that is not to bet on fruit, culture that we don't know who to reach, or homework with unskilled, but knowledge-rich, good teachers into the classrooms that are equalizing differences, and that are to offset the problems that Norwegian school has always had as its goal of equalizing. It was the Left who laid the foundation for the common Norwegian folk school where the doctor's daughter, the priest's son and the householder's son were to sit on the same bench. The class division we fought against is now coming back, because you don't focus on kids being able to do anything. Kids will get knowledge from smart, good teachers who help balance differences, give them a good start in life, and give them the opportunity to evolve. We must invest in the environment – it is also the future and the children. It's to bet on public transport in cities, it's to bet on the solutions that are about society around us developing in a more environmentally friendly direction. It's about getting tax deductions when we do something in our homes that is actually good for the environment, and that we know is good for the future. We have a big boost for the poor children, a promise that is about us being focused on using the money we have in common to reach those who need it the most. That's why we want to use differentiation, for example. child welfare, kindergartens and the SFO, so that the young people who really need the Community goods are given it. I think we can get a new government after the next election. I believe that that government is fundamentally different if it turns blue or if it turns blue-green. That difference can be seen by people reading the Left's alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2208	The representative Skei Grande was busy being brave and bold, and was busy with the climate. Prime Minister Stoltenberg expressed concern in his speech that CO2 emissions and climate change are increasing. It is a concern I have previously heard that the representative Skei Grande shares. In this budget, both the Right and the Advance Party are cutting measures against deforestation. Right, boys, 750 million. kr, part of the progress kitter 2 bn. kr. Today’s economy has been the leader of the project as a success, both because it contributes to concrete emission reductions in Brazil and because it has speeded up international efforts to reduce deforestation. So it's this project the Progress Party and the Right will cut. My question is: in this case, is the Left Near Government or the Advance Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2218	I am voting on the budget that we have presented. The left is going to fight for the things we're concerned about. I think that a government will be different, depending on whether the Left gets into it or not – that's why we are making elections as a political party. So I have to say that if we're going to do something about climate, it doesn't matter to lean back and believe that it's the poor countries that are going to do the whole job, because it's the rainforest bet that's going to save us. We actually have to do something here in the country, for example. with the proposal we have – on which we have probably received the support of all civil parties – to look at tax deductions. Then we're going to get a lot of grip on private households in terms of the environment. Yes, the Prime Minister is good at talking about environmental efforts when the others are going to do the job. I'm busy doing the job too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2227	It's hard to cut the most effective action if you're really busy doing something about the climate. I've heard the representative of Skei Grande earlier in Stortinget. She likes to ask the representative Jensen: Is there man-made climate change? To this day I have not registered that Skei Grande has received an answer to that question. But I might think that the cuts in the budget give it the answer and by the Left can be seen as a taste of what it would be like to negotiate with the Right and the Advance Party. They think it's good to be for climate funds when they can negotiate with the government, but when they're going to prioritize themselves, it's not that fun and not that important. In Oslo, we see the same thing. The left heaves in the city management. They've had three fewer bike paths this year than last year. I ask myself the question, and I also ask it to Skei Grande: why has Left chosen the wrong side in climate and environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2235	I have an experience that Wickholm's representative doesn't have. I have sat and negotiated climate in this house, first with the Right and Christian People's Party. It went really well. It was very easy, we managed to get to very much. Then the government left the negotiating rooms and we had to negotiate with the Progress Party. We actually got quite far, so far that the government came back storming and wanted to negotiate again. It wasn't that easy. It is claimed that the Workers' Party has been a driver in this area. They haven't been. It has been difficult to get the Workers' Party in place on all the important environmental concerns. It is clear that there are far too effective measures to be taken by others. I'm busy making a climate-friendly society in this country. And what we do, for example. in Oslo then, is fighting for a public transport that grows as car traffic goes down, despite the fact that the government will not help Oslo to get public transport up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2242	How long does mental illness last? That's a pretty stupid question, because no one can answer. But I have the impression that the Left believes they know that, because I've read the Left's Alternative State Budget. The left wants to decide when your mental illness, pneumonia or other diseases will be over. This is because Left has been in Sweden and picked up the idea of so-called norms. Then the Left has decided that you should be cured more quickly of your pneumonia, or of cancer, or when you have ended up in an accident. Everyone knows that disease is completely different in different people, also depending on, for example: What job you have. A bad back can mean something quite different in one job than in another. A broken foot means something quite different if you're sitting here on the Stortinget, than if you're working on a nursing home. Why does Left want to determine how long people can be sick? And I want to ask the representative, Skei Grande, how long does mental illness last?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2249	We have taken over a model from Sweden that has worked well, a model where you have had sick leave, and I can explain briefly why you get it down. It's because when you come to a doctor and get a medical report, the doctor sees more often in the weekly plan than he sees in the workplace. There are very few people who get sick messages that last until Thursday evening. Most of them are for Monday morning. And what we see through standardisation is that it's a system that works well. There are not all the diseases it works on, and there are some of the examples that the representative Serigstad Valen has pointed out. But we want more flexibility into this system. For example, the government is now voting. While we're going to have more flexibility in terms of sick pay for those who are cancer patients who go in and out of the system. That's the government against it. But looking at the norms in the case of simple, small diseases, which means that we can bring down the costs, that's also the government against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2256	The left is usually concerned that politicians should decide less, that other people should decide more, and that politicians cannot adopt people's everyday lives. But the representative, Skei Grande, did not respond to the challenge. I'm an SV, and I think it takes a doctor to determine whether a person is healthy or not. I don't think politicians can adopt it. Politicians shall not determine when a lung infection is to be over or when a fracture is growing. That's why my team is working to secure the sick money against cuts and that it's expertise and not politics to decide whether we're healthy or not. What about disease is what makes it exactly something left you think you can regulate politically? How long does disease last?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2263	It's a strange idea to think that we're going to fight to get people to work with non-grown fractures. It is not in this proposal. It is in this proposal that we should take over the Swedish system that has drastically reduced the cost of health pay. It's a challenge that Norwegian society is actually facing: we have too much expenditure on what's happening to all of us who really have it quite well, while we can't spend the big money on those who are actually struggling. That's why I think it's strange that sacrificing a little for all of us who are good is so hard for SV, while supporting a poverty effort to reach the very poorest children is very far inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2268	The left is talking a lot and a lot about climate. The climate notification includes forestry bets as part of an offensive climate solution. There we talk about increased logging, increased planting and increased growth. All of this is good climate action to use the forest as a carbon trap and to increase renewable energy production. So the Left says that they want a more offensive climate policy. But in the budget now presented, they propose the opposite when they cut the agricultural budget by 100 million. kr. through the winding-up of subsidies for forestry roads and for forestry planting under the Agricultural Development Fund. My question to the representative Skei Grande is: What is the basis for this offensive initiative on climate and forest in the Left? Is it only forest in southern latitudes that is accepted to have climate impact, or is it also such that forests in Europe have climate impact for the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2275	I'm busy fighting for the climate because it's about the generations after us. It's about being able to turn around and be proud of the choices we've made. Obviously, if we're just going to focus on climate, we should cut down all the rainforests and plantations. We should put windmills on every nose, we should expand all the hydropower we have to build in Norway, and we should plant forest all over the country. But the problem is, when we turn around and look back, was that the nature we fought for, or did we ruin nature on the way? If we as politicians do not manage to find the right balance between taking care of rainforests, but also taking care of the indigenous population in the rainforests, taking care of Norwegian forestry without planting in all the areas that can give us natural diversity, building up Norwegian hydropower without destroying all the natural areas and building up Norwegian wind power in the same way – that is the balance we have to do, the diversity of species is actually quite important to take care of – we also lose the climate battle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2282	I record that building forest highways to run sustainable forestry is a challenge for the Left. Another question to the budget is that the Left proposes to introduce full VAT on food. Fruit, green and organic products shall not be subject to VAT – that is the equivalent. There is a huge increase in the cost of food in Norwegian society, and there will not least be distribution challenges as there are high-level families with high food budgets that will be hit hardest by such a proposal. I would like to ask the representative, Mrs Skei Grande, to explain a little of the background to that proposal too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2289	That's wrong. We have, in sum, a relief of VAT. If you take all the VAT proposals to the left together, that's a relief, that's a tax relief for people. In addition, we have the full exemption of fruit, green and organic food. The reason for that is that we want to balance out the health differences that exist, even when people go shopping for food. Today we see that poor families choose wrong food because it is cheaper. We want to make the healthy food cheaper and the unhealthy food more expensive. That's how we use the charging system to equalise social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2294	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2297	It is the thousands who have built, and who build, the land. The generations before us have facilitated our possibilities today, opportunities no one else until we have ever had. What we have been given – the strong community and the safe welfare that has become a part of us – we shall continue. The 2013 budget ensures this development. We've gotten a lot, but we're not in the goal. Not everyone participates in the welfare of the vast majority of us. Not everyone feels the same way in their life. The strong community can do something about it – but each of us can also make a difference. Many people ashore around us look up to the Norwegian model. That is why we should be proud of what we do – but never self-fulfilling. We have to work together for the good results every day. We never have to take it for granted that the results come of itself. It's okay to have high expectations, but it's not possible to solve all the challenges at the same time. We have to make choices all the time. Policy is to want something – but politics is also to choose. If we're to achieve the high goals we set, everyone has to contribute. There's so many things we don't have to think about in Norway. The strong community and the Community solutions provide a safe framework for people's lives. In order for it to still be like this, there are some important things we have to take care of. The labour force is our most important resource. I fully agree with Mr Hareide. The finest thing we have is the workforce. We need to develop and process it, so that we also have in the future a resilient, well-qualified and productive workforce. Therefore, investments in kindergartens, education, research and health are important for future growth and well-being. A good upbringing and a good school are crucial for our opportunities later in life. That is why this is also the best distribution policy. When the strong community builds up under this, we get all opportunities, regardless of the parent's income, status and background. It is also the Norwegian model – we all have opportunities to fulfill our dreams. My generation got, and get, these opportunities -- opportunities many of our parents never got. Therefore, there is no time for experiments now, either in the economy or in other policies. Good income insurance schemes are important both for individual security and stimulate work. The tax system must also build up under this. This contributes to strengthening the productive capacity of Norway. We have to build up under the long-termity of and trust in the Norwegian economy. The countries that are struggling in Europe do so, among other things. because their confidence in their economy is weakened. If funds are to be provided to follow up adopted or new reforms, employment and growth in the economy need to be increased. It will also be necessary to maintain expenditure growth in the budget. We have to work and save. It will also serve future generations. The 2013 budget is a budget for value creation and work. It is a good budget for Norway of the future. We've done a lot of things right. We've also been helped by lucky circumstances. High oil prices and high activity in the oil sector have generated large revenues for many enterprises and more jobs in the mainland. High revenue from our exports and reasonable import prices, inter alia: from emerging economies, has made large profits towards the rest of the world. It is not stated that this will last. At the same time, the companies selling to Europe note that demand is falling. A high cost level in Norway makes the challenges extra big. Together with the social partners, we will look at what we can do jointly to mitigate costs and to meet the stronger competition we will have in the international market, in economies with little or no growth in 2012, and in little growth in 2013. Many countries are putting in place a series of measures to increase growth capacity and to put public finances on a sustainable track. This could take time. It'll also label business here at home. These conditions will be further exacerbated if international developments are so weak that the oil price is also marked. We have little opportunity to influence the economic situation out, but we can make ourselves more resilient. The best defense we have is still keeping order in our own house. That is why we must also pursue sound economic policies in the future. We have to stick to the framework we have set up, which provides the basis for such a policy. The rule of action contributes to the sustainability of national finances and to a stable framework for business. We are gradually increasing the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy and no more than what can be passed on over time. Stability is important for business to provide room for innovation and growth. That is why the government's proposal for a budget follows the rules of action. It probably doesn't come as a surprise, I should assume. The rule of action contributes to predictability and stability and to sustainable public finances. It is absolutely necessary to create a good climate in order to operate in Norway. That is why we must maintain the rule of action, not throw it at the scrapper, for example. The Party of Advancement is in charge. The rules of action and the framework for economic policy also contribute to confidence, but this presupposes that all expenditure and revenue must be taken into account. Only in this way will we be able to have a complete priority between different objectives and tasks in the budgetary procedure. It must also be such that only this will provide confidence in the rules of action and budgetary policy over time. Many countries have found that fiscal policy guidelines are gradually being put under pressure and 'creative' circumvention attempts can go wrong in the economy. Neither in Norway nor in other countries, there is more money to put expenditure in new creative ways. In some countries, creativity has resulted in unrealistic budgeting based on over-optimistic assumptions or in an attempt to keep expenditure out of the ordinary budget. Many of these countries have significant financial problems today. In Norway too, over the years, we have had many examples of attempts to circumvent the framework set by the action rule. Several proposals have been made in this way. As I said, many countries in Europe have painfully learned – and notice clearly now – that it is not smart to push commitments ahead and send bills to generations that come after. There is simply no free money. Realistic budgeting means that expenditure must be covered and be in line with sound budgetary principles. The problems we see in a number of countries show how important it is to keep the economy in order. Sound budgetary principles and an open and comprehensive budgetary process provide a good basis for us to succeed in keeping order in the Norwegian economy in the future. In that case, all the objectives financed by the State must be included in the State budget. We will continue to give priority to important welfare tasks, but we will do so within a framework that keeps the Norwegian economy in order and on the whole of the budget. We have to take care of what we've achieved so far, and be careful so that we can meet difficult times. The best contribution to continued good and stable economic development is to keep public finances in order and build up under the growth power of the economy. We're approaching the election. Our budget and the opposition budget give us the opportunity to see in which two directions we want to take the Norwegian society. The most fundamental difference is the view of economic policy – the rule of action and tax issues. I assume that in this debate we will gain greater clarity as to which economic policy will lead an overall opposition. It is not credible to promise much in other areas until one has clarified the most central thing – the economic policy, the economic base, all the promises to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2342	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2345	This was very interesting. The Minister of Finance spoke about not being creative. No one is as creative as this government. The Minister of Finance said that all revenue and expenditure must be included. The Minister of Finance, when he stands on the floor, knows that this is not the case with this government. Why do you count, for example? not with the billions of Petoro, the billions of State power and other state enterprises such as DNB and share purchases in Aker? This is money that goes right from the oil fund to the purchase of shares. This should also be counted. This is also money that goes into the Norwegian economy. How can the Minister of Finance defend that he can be so creative and at the same time be so critical if one or two billion of the money he thinks is to be counted against? Does the Minister of Finance think that there is a different effect of this money because they go straight from the oil fund? Or is it that the Minister of Finance himself can be just as creative as he wills, but no one else can be creative?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2350	Both the Minister of Finance and this government are faithful to the legislation surrounding the rule of action and the State pension fund. When you go to the source, to the establishment of the oil fund in 1990, and for example: reading the notes from the Progress Party, it is very interesting reading. In order to keep Stortinget away from short-term temptations – that’s not the right word in the setting, but at least that’s the point – the Progress Party at the time thought that the use of oil money was to be legislated, a stronger protection around the use of oil money than we see today. When the name was changed in 2006, with the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde as case rapporteur, they repeated their strong wording from 1990. An interesting question is why not the Progress Party has proposed to amend the law so that it becomes more consistent with the party's claims and what is reflected in the Party's policy in the alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2355	This was clearly a planned reply from the Council of State. Let's say we grounded that we should not spend more than a certain number of dollars from the State pension fund. Then this government had not been able to rule. Then there had been hundreds of billions who had gone outside, by money laundering of oil money, right across to state companies or through other ways, for example. Petoro, mentioned earlier today. It's a creative way. Does the Council agree that there is a creative way to use the State budget? Or does he think that this money has a completely different effect on the Norwegian economy than those used over the state budget? Take the municipalities as an example. They've borrowed an average of 20 billion a year. kr in the eight years the government has been in power. I don't see anything in the state budget about the 20. kr extra that municipalities have used each year in loans from various banks around. They're going right into the Norwegian economy. It creates no irresponsibility, according to Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen. Where is the creativity here? Is there something the Council of State is making up? Or is it simply the exact amount that the government believes is sound, which is sound and responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2362	There was not a planned line in that sense, but it was a planned answer, because I have been asked the same question several times now. Then I thought it would be a good idea to look at the record, as it is called, for the Progress Party on such questions in the Stortinget. My point is that the State pension fund law abroad clearly states what is to be included in the cash flow, both on the income and expenditure side. There are clear indications of how the country's direct involvement in the oil business is to be carried out. My point is that in several crossroads, the Progress Party has had an opportunity to change that law, but they have actually not. Go from word to deed, my advice is to the Advancement Party. Then the rest of this room will see what kind of irresponsible economic policy the Progress Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2369	I have to admit that I liked the beginning of the Minister of Finance's contributions, when he talked about the value of investing in a good school – both to avoid too much social differences and to transform the workforce. But when it comes to the results, the Evening Post in August could write that the dropout in high school is increasing. The class struggle wrote that the social differences in school are increasing. If we look at what the government has spent the big money on, it's on fruit and green, on voluntary, unskilled homework, and on cultural schools in the school leisure system. But when it comes to betting on the teachers and raising further and further education, there is a rest on the ground. Is it because the Workers' Party has left the Swedish Labour Party to run the knowledge policy, that we see these results? Or is it because the government thinks you're going to get something in twelve years that you haven't been able to do in eight years, that the Minister of Finance places so much emphasis on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2374	The current and former Swedish Minister of Knowledge has managed and managed this department well. There are challenges in school, yes. That's exactly why we want to complete the job we've started, a school that in 2012 is characterized by peace, trust and cooperation. Students learn more, more complete and complete. In the Pisa study on reading, Norway has moved from 19th place to 9th place. We strengthen higher education and research – 23 400 more places of study in recent years. It's a foundation that's being laid for a better school. It is a basis for increased value creation in the future. But, yes, there are challenges in Norwegian school. They're what we're dealing with, and they're what we're going to do in order to achieve even better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2379	Fortunately, much is also good in Norwegian school. I think we can agree on that. At the same time, the government has too low ambitions for the school. As I said, when you can see that high school dropouts have increased, according to the Evening Post's headline, and that the social differences have also increased in Norwegian school, that's something that's failed when you've been in government for seven years. The Minister of Finance says that research has been put into it. Well, for three out of four years in this government period, the growth in research budgets has been lower than the growth in the budget. Is that the ambition there's something wrong with? Is it that you don't have ambitions about a stronger commitment to research? I am aware that there was a strong increase in 2006. At the same time, the research budget represents the same in 2013 as it did in the 2006 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2386	If you look at real 2012 bills, research efforts have increased by 6 billion. kr from 2005. It represents an increase of about one third or about 32 pst. actually. It's a strong commitment to research. We are one of the OECD countries that spends most of its GDP on public budgets for research. So we have great ambitions in the field of research. The new GIV, which is a response to high school dropouts, is an unusually good measure. We need to develop this further and it needs to be improved so that even more people are able to complete high school. We see that this is a good investment in the future, because it means that young people get through school in a good way and later have opportunities in their working life, and don't go into the queue, as many do if you don't go to high school. Yeah, it's gonna bet, and we're gonna bet on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2391	We know that the Ministry of Finance is the hub so that the promises given in other sectors can actually be fulfilled, as well as with the government's pledge of seniority before the last elections. The Christian People's Party and the Government have an agreement on how this promise was to be made. The situation is now that about 3,000 old and sick people are waiting for a good day's offer. Until now it is built approx. 1 000 new places, while the government has promised 12,000 new hospital places by 2015. With the capacity on which I know the Ministry of Finance is sitting when it comes to plans, my question is: Can you already acknowledge that the promise made to the elderly in the case of care for the elderly cannot be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2398	There are two relationships that I want to highlight in that context. There is a significant stake in, and there will be a significant stake in, fulfilling the promise that has been made. My impression is that we are well on track to achieve goals in 2014 with the promises that were made earlier. The second thing that matters is that during this period we have significantly strengthened the municipal economy, because one of the challenges in that context is the municipal ownership. A secure and good local economy at the bottom is important to combine the economy with the efforts that come directly above the state budget. During this period, the income of the local government sector has actually increased by SEK many and SEK sixty billion, and next year's budget means a new boost for the local economy in terms of, among other things, development. in the case of free income, which is also important for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2406	In its alternative budget, the Left has proposed significant changes in income tax in terms of minimum deductions, deductions, top taxes and social security contributions. It has the advantage that it both re-distributes and gives the most tax relief to those with the lowest income, and tax relief for those with income above 1 million. kr. At the same time, it contributes to the strengthening of the funding of popular security, which is underfunded by 102 billion in the budget of the Minister of Finance. kr. Is this a model the Minister of Finance finds interesting?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2416	Without considering the individual components of the Left's tax options, I would generally say that the idea of balancing differences through the tax system is a sensible approach to the use of taxes both as a means of providing the community with good, predictable and secure income, and also to using the tax system to strengthen the distribution profile. This government has done that, and this government will continue to do that. In particular, the development of taxes on wealth has made the greatest contribution to a fairer burden-sharing between those who have much and who have the ability to raise a higher tax burden than others, and those who have little. So yes, on a more general basis, we are too good tax proposals that strengthen the distribution profile of the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2421	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2424	It is the opposition's privilege always to overwhelm the government, even in the areas where the government is highly esteemed. That's what's so wonderful about being in opposition. Then it's not as satisfying that you can't implement the policy you stand for and believe in. So that's how I feel about the opposition -- I've been in both situations. Now I am responsible for what is perhaps most important for whether we are a society that succeeds in the future: a million children and young people in addition to a lot of students and all those who work with knowledge and development and research in this field. Then my overall slogan is every day I wake up, that I should praise what's going well, because there's an incredible amount going well. If not those who are in schools and kindergartens every day get some encouraging words with them on the way to success, it is easy to become a little discouraged. There's a lot going well, and then we have some challenges. If there is a government change, there will be two major changes in this area. There would be more testing and testing of grades in high school. Already today there is a lot of time that goes with the tests. I think we have that information at national level that we need to do a good job. Second, there would be extensive privatisation of the school, especially in high school. The privatisation experiment that we stopped in 2005 would mean that already the first and second years could be about. 25 pst. of the secondary schools in many of the cities have been privatised. These are the two great differences that the Right Party and the Advance Party will not talk about when we discuss school. Our option has been to invest heavily in the common school and the common good that reaches all children and young people. Knowledge for everyone is knowledge for life, and that's what determines whether we can exploit the human capital we have, which is approximately. 80 pst. of our total wealth. Kindergarten bet is getting more and more attention around. One is becoming increasingly concerned about how important it is to invest in the smallest. It happens in Norway, and it happens internationally. Here we have implemented a formidable reform. Let me just do one example: if we look at five-year-olds with a minority background, 54 pst went. of them in kindergarten in 2005. Today it's 96 pst. It gives us a great opportunity to smooth out social inequality and to give every child the best start possible. In primary school, early efforts have become what everyone is concerned about. That means that if there are any children who have any challenges, we shouldn't wait and see if it goes by itself. We're going to be on the plate with bets. At a young age, we are now in the process of a large-scale transition to a more practical, varied and relevant training, and the new GIV is a major source of excitement throughout high school. We have many tests in Norwegian school, but it is our participation in the international tests that show how development is over time, and at what level. When the PISA test shows that we have a significant improvement in reading skills for 15-year-olds from 2006 to 2009, and that the weakest performers have resumed a full year in reading development, one cannot say that social inequalities are increasing. Then one has to say that we have actually succeeded in something that is very crucial for the working life, and for democracy and participation. That means we're on the right track. We recruit more teachers – 50 pst. more from 2008 until now are applying for teacher training. We have a higher degree in real-time vocational education than we've had in ten years. We have an increase in research at 32 pst. from 2005, and considerable efforts with new places of study. This means that we have a comprehensive focus on knowledge and development. That's important, and that's right, because we can also see that the results are improving and that in some areas we're leading internationally. We are actually the Nordic country that invests most in research per capita. What's a challenge for the future is that we're not just able to bet on width, because it's very important for development all over the country, but that we're also focusing on sharpening, because we have a potential that we can exploit even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2450	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2453	I note that the Council of State is musing about old days and promises and promises, but I note that she was not within the promise of 11 months of study support by all red-green parties, but we may get back to that. In 2006, the red-green government increased the construction of student housing from around 500 to 600 to 1000. Since 2000, there has been no increase in that number, which has led to a record increase in queues this year. Never have so many been denied a student residence as in 2012. In the summer, the Council of State and her party leader said that there is a need to increase the number of student housing built every year, from 1,000 to 2,000. But when the fall came, the proposal in the state budget was also in the year 1000 dwellings, and thus the record-breaking queue is also in 2013. What has changed from the summer of 2012 to the autumn of 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2462	There is nothing strange at all, for my recording of 2000 student housing per year was valid for the ageing period from 2013. This period we have been dealing with what is on the government platform, as Tord Lien quite rightly says, is a doubling from 2005: a building from 500 to 1000 new student homes per year. I'm very pleased with that. That's what the students demanded, and they got 100 pst. redemption. When I have mentioned that we should double the level of ambition once again from 2013, it is for several reasons, partly because the pressure on the housing market has increased significantly – especially in those areas where the major places of study are – and partly because building student housing is a very simple and unbureaucratic way to quickly participate both in providing students with better housing and sending a signal into the private market, which is also large in this area. So it's a proposal that I've already received in the SV's proposed work programme for the next period, and I therefore expect to have great chances of becoming the red-green government's policy in 2013, when we win the election again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2471	Just this with whether the red-green government will continue after the election, I think we'll rather get back to on a later occasion. I also note that the Council of State does not comment on the increase in student support, which was both in Soria Moria I and all three red-green party programmes in 2009, but as I said, I did not expect it to be a major issue today. I guess that thing's iced up. But the last Wednesday, the Prime Minister and I had a round here in the Chamber of Real Science Candidates. And that's right, as the Council of State says, that the number of real-time candidates is slightly increasing. For the first time in this period of government, you are actually above the level you were at in 2006. However, in relation to the proportion of both an overall workforce in Norway and of candidates coming out, it is far from actually satisfying the needs of the labour market. Is the Council satisfied with the situation as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2482	I'm happy that we're on the right track. Because there is a significant increase in interest in the engineering study, for example, and we have increased the number of places of study in engineering and real-life training. Several in real science now have been graduates — an increase from 2008 to 2011 of more than 20 pst. So we're actually on the right track. It also means that the estimates for how many engineers we can lack in the future are adjusted down. I'm glad we're on the right track, but I'm using it as a tracker to further raise the interest in real science, because we're going to need it in many areas. My intense desire is that a lot more young people should see what opportunities lie in these professions – perhaps especially that girls should throw their eyes on real science to a greater extent, because I don't think they're as aware that there are many interesting challenges in this area, as there are in other areas of the education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2487	In his main post earlier today, Audun Lysbakken stated that the action with 600 new teaching positions has been earmarked for schools ‘with the greatest professional and social challenges’ to quote him correctly. In fact, the government has pointed out the schools without talking to the school owners. In fact, the measure benefits only 170 of the country’s 3,000 schools. And the fact is, the government is going to spend 1.5 billion dollars. SEK 600 teachers who could have been used for continuing training for many thousands of teachers. How can the Council of State defend an action that takes so randomly, and that the schools have been picked out here in Oslo? And how can the Council of State defend an action that will bring so few students and so benefit teachers? Isn't it a cross of thought that there are three positions coming to Finnmark – a state that is top in decline, and which unfortunately is close to the bottom in terms of exam results and primary school scores?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2497	Now I'm really starting to enjoy the election campaign. For this is a proposal that has been put forward by students, teachers and parents in school who want to try out what it is like to increase teacher density. We've picked out half of the 30 percent of high school students who have more than 20 students per teacher, whichever is lower than the average in primary school, and then we hit pretty well. Then we're going to gain experience of what it's like to get a better teacher's density. Those who wear the shoe are convinced that it means that you can work more effectively and differently, that you can follow the students with much better adapted training, and that you can get back some of the teachers who have left school. So I'm really happy to discuss that with the Right. Then I have a question to the right. I see that the Right proposes to reduce the local government's share in continuing education, from 25 p.m. until 20 pst. How in the world does the Right believe that it will trigger 2,500 more further training hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2506	It hardly gets any answers from the government here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2509	The introduction to the articles of the Council of State did show that it is a little difficult whether you are in position or in opposition. But I have also gone back a little to look at the election promises. Kristin Halvorsen promised in the previous election that it would be an hour free SFO. It ended up with a lesson for the smallest. It might have been more real to say that's what you wanted, because there were a lot of parents asking for this free hour at the SFO. But leave it alone. What I want to address in this line is that there is a lot of frustration about how this homework system actually works. Challenges with thunder, with personnel, make it very many strange solutions, and now teachers all over the country report that it is not those who need it the most, who get this offer. Is it such that the Council of State will reconsider the teaching aid and the design so that one can reach those who need it the most, or does the whole-day school project mean the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2520	We have followed up the wording of the government statement with two hours of free SFO plus the cultural school hours that come on this year's budget. So what we're getting back on is that parents with children in high school are happy with homework. And we see, when we look at the distribution of who uses it, that it has a good social smoothing effect. There is a greater proportion of parents with low income and low education who use homework than those who have children in the SFO. Then we get a final report – a depth report – to the spring on how homework has worked, but my impression is that it is very different, and that there are very many who have very good experiences with homework.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2529	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2532	I must then be allowed to make a small comment to the Council of State. He got away far too cheap with his -- if I can get to say -- whispers -- that everything should be in the best order in terms of revenue and expenditure. It is the government itself that decides what is right to budget, while many expenditures are directly charged to the oil fund. At least that's right. So the Council of State may agree that it is actually quite creative accounting by the Council of State, because he carries money, among other things. to state corporations, either as equity capital or as purchases of shares. It goes straight from the oil fund and right to the companies, which has an impact on the Norwegian economy – among others. pressure on interest, on interest rates, on inflation, etc. There will be no zero-taxors with the Progress Party in government. The red-greens might as well change the campaign propaganda right away. Yes, the Progress Party will remove the wealth tax, but everyone can be absolutely sure that the Advance Party will remove any loophole. We do not accept that more of the country's richest will be able to experience being zero-taxors. If the display rule is to prevent it, we will change it. If there's tax planning that contributes to this, yes, we'll do something about it. So the progress party is the guarantor that the property tax will be removed without the result that those who already have the most become zero-taxors. To underline this, I also want to do it both orally and in writing, because it is okay that everyone sees that there will be no zero-taxors with the Advance Party in government. [[The representative Tybring-Gjedde shows a yellow poster, where it says: «No zero-taxors with FrP».]] I hope I do not have any questions about this now, because now I have confirmed that there will be no zero-taxors with the Advance Party in the government – thank you. Last Friday, the newspaper presented a white lie – I use the word « lie», but it is the daily newspaper that had that lie – on the front page of the paper. It was claimed that if the country got a new government, it would be a billion-dollar cut in sick pay. This is – with all due respect to report – simply intrigued. But we're going to get people out of the hospital queue. We'll do that by putting all the available capacity into use. We want to use resources so that sick people get faster treatment. If the queue is not due to a lack of resources, but a lack of capacity, we will use private offers. Yes, we will also use capacity in other countries. We have no ideological barriers to how sick people can be treated. Our only focus will be to get people healthy. The Progress Party shall be set at the same time as over 1 billion. kr for work on a job strategy, organised work and measures for jobseekers. And we'll spend close to 700 million. kr for apprentices. It is then natural to expect that fewer people will be unemployed, and fewer will be in hospital queues. In order not to be misunderstood, I repeat the message in writing. [[The representative Tybring-Gjedde shows a yellow poster, where it says: «No cut in sick pay with FrP».]] There will be no cut in sick pay with the Progress Party – orally and in writing. To the newspaper's information, I can tell you that it is not that the total grant of sick pay is constant, and that those who are sick at any time share this money. Payment of sick pay depends on the number of people who are sick. When the Advance Party prioritizes to use $1.7 billion of course, the need for sick pay is less. If it hadn't been like that, it wouldn't be an economic incentive to get people healthy. But the absolute low in economic terms was served by the representative Trettebergstuen, who, in the light of the newspaper's failing economic reasoning, is quoted in the newspaper as follows: 'It is an unprofessional budget, simply. To claim that overnight you will heal a lot of people by cutting their social benefits is nonsense." We're all going to appreciate that the Trettebergstien is not a member of the Financial Committee. The party of progress in government will be the guarantor that most people will get lower taxes. Yes, workers will retain more of their own income. In order not to be misunderstood, I repeat the message in writing. [[The representative Tybring-Gjedde shows a yellow poster, where it says: «Big tax credits for most people with FrP».]] Now everyone has seen it: there will be huge tax credits for most people with the Progress Party – in writing and orally. In our alternative budget, we increase the deduction by NOK 20 000, which means NOK 5 600 in tax relief for each employee. In other words, a married couple who are both at work will receive NOK 11 200 in an increased deduction with the Advance Party. But we're not going to go there. The income tax will be further reduced, and the Progress Party in the Government will be the guarantor of tax relief for ordinary workers, while strengthening well-being – and of course with a responsible use of oil money. Too well to be true, some people probably think, but our alternative budget shows that it is possible – the slimming of the public sector, coordinated and better procurement practices in the public sector, more at work, reduced immigration, fewer subsidies to agriculture and cut in an oversized aid budget – precisely because we know that sustainable development takes place through trade, via the market, not through alms. So it's not without reason that I wear today's tie that has a picture of Ole Brumm, who says: Yes, thank you both. It is actually possible – yes, thanks to both sides – both tax havens and well-being are possible. More and more sectors in Norway are struggling to maintain competitiveness. This is due to several factors, but the level of wage and cost in Norway is much higher than in all the countries with which we compete. Then we have to produce smarter, faster, or be unique. However, we have a further advantage: we have a large surplus in the budgets due to the oil and gas activities and the return from these activities. In other words, we have a rich state and a work life that is struggling with competitiveness, for example because of: the level of wages and salaries. Then you can imagine an exchange relationship, where the government offers solid tax relief and employees, as a consequence, are somewhat more moderate in their pay demands. This will lead to higher real wages and salaries for employees, better competitiveness for business – which ensures jobs – and a slightly less surplus on the government budget – once again: not a demand for a lower salary, but an invitation to the responsible social partners. The Progress Party believes in positive policy instruments. While red-green politicians have fallen in love with bans, bans, restrictions, taxes, taxes and want more detailed management of people's lives, the Progress Party wants to introduce positive measures to achieve desired behaviour. In one of the first interviews with the Minister of Health and Health, Jonas Gahr Støre, who is now sitting in the hall, it was absolutely fine, he said that he would bet on prevention. Now it doesn't help so much for all those in the patient queue, or all those who don't get the treatment they need, but it can be positive to keep people healthy and in work anymore. But we have not heard anything concrete from Mr. Støre either. Meanwhile, in the Progress Party, we have relaunched our proposal for tax exemptions for employer-funded training cards. This would be thought to be something that the new Minister of Health wanted to embrace, but one otherwise so speaking minister has been quite silent. Yes, I understand that such a positive action can have a foreign effect on workers' parties, and that it would be preferable to increase taxes on so-called unhealthy foods, or to hide tobacco and other abominations behind the fence or under the counter. But here the Minister of Health has an opportunity to prove that I am wrong – at a cost of 175 million. ten thousands of workers will be given the opportunity to stay in shape. It's preventive. By the way, it may seem a little strange that in larger jobs, such as in the Grand Duchy or in the government quarter, training opportunities for free use during working hours are not given the same opportunity to workers in smaller enterprises. If employers in larger enterprises and enterprises think it is a wise and preventive investment to give employees the opportunity to stay in shape, it is strange if not the same logic should apply to smaller enterprises. The government has stated that it shares the aim of the Progress Party to reduce the traffic in the big cities. But while the government believes that the best way to do this is to reduce the number of parking spaces, block roads, introduce transit bans, introduce rush time charges, charge for parking during working hours, the Progress Party wants to use positive instruments. Therefore, the Progress Party promotes proposals for the introduction of tax exemptions for collective cards paid by employers. In other words, we want employers to be able to offer their employees collective cards without the employee having to tax the benefit of such a good. The sale of collective cards will increase by 175 000 cards. Then it'll be full on the bus and track. It is already – yes, it is correct, but according to the Ministry of Finance, sales of collective cards will increase the turnover of collective societies by 2.3 billion. kr. You can buy a lot of cars and buses for that. I was also checking the price of a bus, it is approx. Two million. So you can count on it for yourself. At the same time, there'll be less rush traffic. Those who actually need to use the car for work are coming forward faster. There may be someone who is going to deliver in kindergarten, who needs to use a car, and others as well. So then we have a win-win situation. Let me conclude by offering a further promise to the voters: the party of progress in government means freedom, security and power of action. [[The representative Tybring-Gjedde shows a yellow poster, where it says: «FrP in government = freedom, security and power of action».]] Then the voters can take their freedom back, seize the freedom of choice when we get tax havens and spend the money on what they want the most, instead of the red-greens are going to waste them and spend them on what they think is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2590	The President has registered that the representative has used an untraditional method of conveying his message. The Stortinget has been a stranger to date. That means that the presidency has to take a spin on it, and I'm not completely surprised if the presidency makes some decision about this. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2595	We can expect a single message from the Progress Party in the election campaign. What I want to ask the representative is tax relief for the workers – with the Progress Party there will be great tax relief. But the vice-president of the Progress Party believes that members of trade unions who grant money to a political party should not receive trade union deductions – a clear exit to LO's 893,000 members. In the budget they take this completely away, a clear right-upercut to Norwegian trade union movement. I wonder: Does the Advancement Party believe that there will be a distinction between LO and the rest of the trade movement when the Advancement Party makes its decisions? And no. 2: Does the Progress Party believe that it is possible to reduce the tax deduction for organised employees, while not touching the deductions to the employers' side?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2606	You can be absolutely sure that every year the Progress Party in government will be able to make an impact on solid tax cuts for those who have at least already. Those who are in work, but have at least already, will get solid tax cuts with the Progress Party. We believe that it is actually not a government task to fund people who are members of trade unions. One could imagine a number of other measures that could also be part of, and we believe that workers themselves should fund their participation in LO and other trade unions. In fact, it's not the taxpayers' job to split the membership of other people into different associations. So it's the Workers' Party that wants to buy votes by providing support for the LO – we know that well, and they probably have a good impact on it. We're on our own policy, and we don't actually have to buy votes in LO.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2613	In fact, the representative has to be a little careful with his use of words. Buying votes is a concept that the President strongly dislikes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2616	I'm not so sure that this statement will be more accurate even if you lift a poster from the Stortinge pulpit. We've noticed the promises that there won't be zero taxpayers with the Progress Party, and we'll have to wait and see how taxing the highest wages with large assets is done. In a previous exchange of lines with Tybring-Gjedde, he denied the undersigned's claim that there will be increased differences, and that it is those who serve the most, who get the greatest tax burden. Now I have a table here with objective ways of calculating the tax proposals, and it shows that with the board's tax proposals, those who make between 250,000 and 300,000 dollars will get a tax bill of 5,200 dollars, while those who make over 3 million dollars. NOK 12,500. Then you have not included the removal of the property tax. In addition, if the wealth tax announced by the Advance Party is included, these differences will increase. So it's going to be financed by cutting disability benefits, sickness benefits, etc. in the order of 5 billion. kr. [[President clubs]] Isn't this increasing the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2624	The representatives know they have 1 minute. It must be used with care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2627	I reject Hansen's claims categorically. We've got this checked through the SSB, and the statements that come up are simply wrong. First of all, we're not taking away the property tax, we're cutting at the bottom of the property tax. We will implement tax relief, tax relief – everything – for those who have at least already. Our entire budget is saturated by it, so how you get to $12,000 is a miracle for me. So I want to remind you that there are actually zero taxpayers with this government. Now you go into the eighth year, and there are still zero-taxers in Norway that you don't do anything about – but you're probably very concerned that it might be until next year. So there are zero taxpayers in Norway today who live well under the red-green regime, without paying five cents in taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2634	I've learned that if one reads only the headings of the Progress Party's posters, then the Progress Party appears to be a very jovial party where most people come out in large plus whatever situation they are in. This means that you need to get a little deeper into the documents if you want to get a correct idea of what the Progress Party stands for, and if you want to see the political differences between the parties. What's not on any poster is how the Progress Party finances these taxes and what they propose of cutbacks in this budget. One of the areas on which they cut is the smoothing scheme. We have asked questions about this from the Centre Party's page earlier in this debate, without getting a proper answer. But a cutter in a system that will lead to higher costs for people and businesses around the Norwegian districts on the Internet. The question of Tybring-Gjedde is: Is this good business policy after the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2643	No one should doubt that the Progress Party has a sound industrial policy. Of course we have cut proposals, so do we. That is why, according to the Minister of Finance, it is certainly a responsible economic policy, even though he himself never kisses. He just increases the expenses, and it does the whole red-green government. But we have solid tax credits, and we have cut suggestions, and I listed what we had cut suggestions on. Nor should there be any doubt that industry is involved in the policy of the Progress Party. We give priority to business in the policy of the Progress Party. We give priority to jobs, including in the districts. But the districts are going to wear more, because the farmers are going to have bigger units, and they're going to wear more in agriculture. There may be more centralisation and more rational use of resources in Norway. In fact, we think it is natural for other countries to be allowed to compete on what they are competitive on and deliver to Norway. Instead of protecting things we shouldn't deliver to other countries, for example. in agriculture. We cut into it, and we want trade and to remove customs etc. It's going to go down on some people in Norway, and we're going to admit it. We believe it is an unfair policy to subsidise certain groups in Norway at the expense of poor people in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2650	Yes, this is interesting, because the question is not about Norwegian agriculture. It is simply about what the Progress Party has clearly warned that they should propose, namely a cut in the netting system, which will mean that many companies around the Norwegian district, and many individuals, too, will increase the cost of trying to produce values that we are busy with, and are distributed. So the question I almost have to repeat: is it good business policy, seen with the Progress Party's eyes, to increase the cost of a number of businesses around our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2657	What is good business policy and natural market economy is that people themselves pay the expenses they have. Instead of some companies financing the expenditure for others, it is best to finance your own expenditure. I understand that the central parties believe that in densely built strips and cities they are going to finance everything out in pig-grown struts through different schemes, but we believe that this is actually not right. We believe that we should bet on what is competitive and that can deliver, and then we can build jobs for the future. Keeping a hold on the past does not give more jobs, it leads to more subsidies and more dependence on public transfers, and the Progress Party does not believe in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2664	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2667	Creating more, not taxes anymore, is the goal of the Right. The community succeeds when more people manage themselves. The State shall ensure that those outside do not make the most of their dependence. From such a perspective, the tax system in Norway has the following main challenges: It does not stimulate enough to always pay off. The peculiar wealth tax penalises saving and discriminates against Norwegian ownership of, and therefore investments in, Norwegian jobs. It stimulates too little forward-looking investment in research as well as in machinery and equipment. In response to these challenges, the solution to the right is the following main action: the minimum deduction is increased significantly to pay off work. The taxes on wealth and inheritance are reduced. Depreciation of machinery and equipment needs to be improved and the tax FUNN scheme strengthened. The 2010 Review of the Tax System confirmed broad consensus between the parties in key areas of fiscal policy. This is good because it ensures a stable framework for business. Disunity is largely due to tax rates and level of taxation. The wealth tax is what represents the fundamental disagreement and is therefore a central issue. Today’s government has directed Norway at a cost level for industrial workers of 160 p.m. – up from approx. 120 pst. in 2005 – in relation to our trading partners in Europe, but closing eyes to the challenges that this poses for everyone. We don't invest enough in the rest of the economy and become one-sided dependent on the oil. To conceal the challenge, there is a populist and aggressive attack on ‘tax on the rich’. The property tax is a special tax on Norwegian jobs owned by Norwegians. To use the football language: The government's signal to Norwegian owners is that only foreigners and the state will compete in Tippeliga. The private ownership of Norway is systematically weakened and left in the Adeccoliga. Owners around the country have to drain businesses for capital to pay taxes, even when business does not make money. This is capital that should instead be used to invest in increased competitiveness. When someone sells or gives up, the indignant comments and the announcement of the “patentful” Norwegian owners come. This is seductive double morals! There is a need for a policy that stimulates value creation and active, local, private ownership – and does not stifle it. Without vital, active and strong local ownership, tens of thousands of jobs will be weakened. The wealth tax on the capital of business has increased from 3.2 billion. NOK to SEK 6.8 billion. kr since 2005. Right will descend and eventually remove the property tax. This year, the base deduction is proposed to be raised to 1 million. kr, the tax rate decreased to 1 pst, and a stock discount of 10 pst. reintroduced. The right's alternative budget amounts to a net tax reduction of about 5 billion. kr. Tax relief increases family well-being and increases individual freedom of choice. The family itself determines how a larger part of the income is to be used, and the business community retains more of its capital to invest in the jobs. The right will provide security by focusing on knowledge and competitiveness and give new optimism to business and labour markets. It's always worth working. In order to stimulate more work, the minimum deduction is increased by NOK 4000 and the rate is increased to 43 pst. This is the most important single measure in our tax regime. It will have an effect on all those who are at work, but gives the percentage the greatest tax relief to those with low income. Tax credits for people with low incomes will stimulate more people to enter the labour market and stimulate more people to work. The peak tax entry point is raised to NOK 520000 at level 1. The number of Norwegians paying top taxes has increased by nearly 40 pst. under the red-green, to 956 000. With our proposal, around 54,500 fewer Norwegians will have to pay top taxes. The Ministry of Finance has calculated the dynamic effect of the proposed top right tax bill to 10 pst. So one in ten dollars given in tax bills will be financed by the increased activity it creates. The SSB has made similar calculations showing an even higher estimate of the dynamic power. The right-hand side also proposes – which the government has been slowing down in the budget debate – to maintain the tax deduction on large disease expenditure at 2012 levels and to increase the free-card limit strongly, to DKK 45000. The free-card limit is important for young people in education and will provide a strong incentive for more people in this group to work. Active, competent and committed ownership is central and very important for future well-being. We will therefore strongly stimulate the participation of employees. The amount of the free purchase of discounted shares by employees in their own company is proposed in a tidal manner, at NOK 15 000. Employee ownership is important for the development of business. Strong price increases have made it difficult for many young people to enter the housing market. Combined with the stricter requirements on equity of the Financial Supervisory Authority, saving prior to the purchase is absolutely necessary. Saving is a virtue, but the government contributes a little. On the other hand, we are proposing to significantly strengthen the BSU scheme. The maximum amount is doubled to NOK 300000 and the annual savings amount is raised to NOK 25 000. In addition, the tax advantage is increased from 20 pst. in the State budget of 28 p.m. With the Right’s proposal, the BSU will again become a mechanism that will allow young people to save at a fair share of equity. We wonder about a red-green government that is so little concerned about giving young people the opportunity to establish themselves in the housing market. Each of us needs security in old age. However, individual pension savings are ignored by the government. We want to increase the annual savings to NOK 40,000. The productivity growth in the Norwegian economy is weak and there has been a strong increase in compensation of employees per unit of production. This is not sustainable in the long term. The competitiveness of Norway is significantly weakened and competitive business cannot live with such developments over time. Incentives for investment in increased value creation need to be reinforced. Right suggests starting writes of 30 pst. for investments in machinery and equipment, direct expenditure on investment in R & D, significant improvement of the tax FUNN through increased cost frameworks and a reversal of red-green reductions in hourly wages and the number of hours spent by research. In addition, the Right proposes to remove the government’s taxation of research by granting tax exemptions to non-profit and stand-alone research institutes. Primary industries are subject to full personal taxation and cannot choose the form of a company. Turnover of property within the family is exempt from income tax, but on sale out of the family the gain will be taxed as personal income if it has been operating on the property. If the operation has ceased, the tax is capital income. The right will remove this incentive to tax planning and closure of agricultural operations and propose that all gains be treated as capital income. The right also suggests raising the base rate tax entry point in the force industry. Conversion of pensioners’ taxes in the 2011 government budget was very severe for some pensioners’ groups. In this alternative state budget, the right repeats the proposal from then on to reduce the phasing-out rate in steps 2 to 3 pst. Voluntary activities are important for Norway. When the government does not follow up on its promises to change the key, it is all the more important to stimulate the volunteer’s own ability to collect money and simplify everyday life. The right will increase the amount of tax credit for donations to the voluntary sector to NOK 25 000 for individuals and to NOK 100000 for enterprises, raise the wage and salary obligation limit to NOK 8 000 in non-profit organisations and increase the employer’s tax liability limit to DKK 50000 per employee, or DKK 500000 per organisation. Norway has many peaceful buildings, and the Right will introduce the accounting equation for peaceful buildings to stimulate the maintenance of cultural heritage. There are a lot of private people doing a great job in this area. In total, our tax policy shows a different direction: a slightly smaller state and a little more private initiative – a little more focus on strengthened private ownership and more focus on work. That would be a good direction for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2728	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2731	The representatives of Solberg and Kolberg had a little earlier in the debate an interesting line change about the rule of action. It was interesting in that way that the Right Leader did not give any answer to what Kolberg asked. The party of progress has repeatedly, even today, been aware that they want to use more of the oil wealth, while the Right has, over many years, agreed with the Workers' Party that it is unwise. So my question is, can the Right guarantee that the rule of action will apply to the level of oil money spending if you join the Advance Party in a future government? Since the President of the Right would not answer that question, I hope at least that a member of the Right Financial Committee can make a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2736	I think I can guarantee that we're going to stick at least as well to the rule of action as what this government is doing. You have forgotten in many ways that the rule of action consists of two things: one is that you should not spend more than 4 pst. and the other is what the money should be used for. The Bondevik II government spent nine out of ten dollars on education, on transport and infrastructure and on tax incentives to grow. This government spends one and a half to two out of every ten dollars. So I think the representative should be less concerned about this in the future. I would also like to recall what the representative of the Central Party, Marit Arnstad, said in a similar debate before the Red-Green Government in 2005. She then said that the rule of action was ‘a dogma without content’. We are at least much closer to the Progress Party than the Centre Party was then.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2744	It's strange to hear how much strange a response we get to the rule of action, but that wasn't my starting point. I have a lot of work to do with business development around the district, and one of the most important measures and one of the most cost-effective measures to strengthen business development both centrally and regionally is to invest in good networks, good clusters, between business, between different enterprises and educational and research institutions. There are a good number of networks that have been shown to have a great effect. They're very much funded by regional development funds, and now the Right will cut 1.5 billion. in the regional development funds leading to a highly cost-effective emergence of clusters of industry, which are a very good focus on industrial policy. Why does the Right cut the effective support of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2751	I understand that the representative Holmelid may find that a strange answer, because you do not follow the rule of action, but leave it alone – I explained that in my previous answer. As I know regional development funds, a lot of them disappear in administration and internal bureaucracy in county municipalities. In my own county municipality, one of the really big scandals in supporting business has been that the entire county council had to go because of the way in which the regional development funds were disposed of. And I don't meet business leaders out in Norway who are calling for more regional development funds. They demand funds for transport, and the Right re-disposes this kind of money to invest in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2758	I want to ask the representative of Gundersen about the income system of the municipalities. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Left propose that part of the corporate tax should be returned to the municipalities. That's 11 billion. kr to be redistributed. It will affect the tax-deprived municipalities, and it will serve the tax-advanced municipalities. In its proposal for a programme, the Right goes a little further. There they go in order to punish low-tax municipalities by reducing the level of income between municipalities. Nine out of ten municipalities will be losers when well two billion. kr is to be moved from municipalities that already have low tax incomes to municipalities with high incomes. I realized that the representative Gundersen said that one should create more, not more taxes, but let me say it this way: Is it so that the Right should punish the weakest more?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2767	No, we're not going to punish anymore. This is, of course, a measure that is simply aimed at creating more, because we want municipalities to be committed to creating businesses and jobs. The representative should be concerned that in very many district municipalities, the municipality is now the largest employer, and private business is severely weakened. I think I can also guarantee that there will be no dramatic changes. One can count on single pieces of Right action, but when we ask about the effect of the entire municipal structure on the municipalities, we get the answer that it is too complicated to count on all the effects. So I think this is a very sensible measure to make the municipalities focus on value creation, and it will have to have any society that intends to survive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2774	Now I was thinking of asking a question that perhaps the representative Gundersen would like to talk about, namely tax cuts, which I realized he was very concerned about in his article. Earlier today, more people have been confronted with the situation in Europe, and Norway is in a completely different situation. We have low unemployment, we have a robust economy, and I think we have because there has been a policy for it. In many other countries, a different policy of large tax cuts has been pursued because it is believed that it will lead to more people coming into work and more economic growth. Then I wonder: Can the Right provide some good examples of how high employment, low unemployment and high welfare levels have been compatible with comprehensive tax cuts? Then I'm not going after Sweden's answer. That answer is not allowed, because where the unemployment goes up, and the differences increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2783	I think there's a lot of examples of that. President Reagan made major changes in the United States in the 1980s. It was very successful. Of course, I like to talk about taxes in my main post, because I'm a fiscal spokesman, so that's kind of my job. When the representative says that we have a robust economy, I have also tried to warn a little about what is happening. We have a very clear division of the Norwegian economy. We have a very good economy in Norway, but we cannot imagine that it is also due to fantastic oil revenues, and that we are in a special position in Europe as well. We need to be careful not to work into a similar situation where the Norwegian economy is far from robust, but too dependent on one source of income.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2790	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2793	There is at least one thing that is certain: when you listen to the debate and analyse it today, it creates predictability of the position, because it is very likely that as we approach the elections next year, this debate will also shape the election campaign. The Prime Minister is going to use the victory speech of President Obama and frighten relations in the United States, and then the Minister of Finance is going to scare the Norwegian people with the financial crisis in Europe. I heard the finance minister say that there are ‘many things we don’t think about in Norway’. Yeah, that's absolutely right, and that worries me. It worries me that this government doesn't think about what might happen in 10, 15, 20, 25 years. This government does not think further than until the next elections — and that is the challenge. Now that Europe has an economic challenge, you take the necessary steps to become competitive and get up in 10, 15 and 20 years, while Norway does not. And it is an element of the Advance Party's alternative state budget. One would like to criticise the Progress Party and the in- and out-of-date fact that we are irresponsible in terms of money use, but the most important thing about the Progress Party's alternative state budget is that we are setting the framework for meeting the challenges of 10, 15, 20 and 25 years – that is, we are investing in meeting new elements of competition that must come from Europe's transition. And you're not willing to do that at all in this government. This government has transformed the Storting into a clean dispatch office, and it's only about preserving and strengthening what exists. I also record that the debate uses varying arguments. Among other things, you say that in the Advancement Party you are ice cold because we are cutting in cash next year at 500 million. kr, because the Progress Party believes that our policy will reduce unemployment, that more people will get into work – we believe that. Even the government believes in its own policy there. Fourteen days ago, a proposition was transferred to this house, Prop. 29 p. On page 10 it says – I’m not so strong in new Norse, but I hope I get forgiveness: ‘It is now assumed that a lower share of the day-to-day allowance will be provided, and a lower rate of growth in average performance than was foreseen in the current budget in 2012.’» The government's cutting 504 million. kr in the daily allowance this year. That must be cruel. The Progress Party will continue in its alternative budget next year what the government is using in this year. If this is not the case, this government must now expect a higher level of unemployment next year, based on the 2012 figures. You deliberately cheat in your arguments. Among other things, this government budgets with lower asylum rates next year, thereby reducing the allocation. So does the Progress Party. That's the exact same methodology that we're using. When I hear the arguments here, the arguments are different. Breaks are taken from a programme design in the Progress Party to be completed in May next year, and measured against alternative state budget from the Progress Party. It's so much a joke that the debate isn't worth it. And there's something you completely forget about here. When you talk about security from the government, you don't say a single word about what's happening in terms of security and security: the situation in the criminal justice chain – by letting criminals out of prison because you don't have the capacity, and by not doing the job of the Norwegian police. You have equipment that has gone out on ‘data’ – you don’t want to talk about it. The overall part that has actually been a major debate on over a long period of time now is that this government has failed fundamentally on security – it will not be discussed. But we'll remind them of that as we approach the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2809	The President is in favour of there being a little bit of commitment and a little bit of temperature in the debate, but the President is not sure whether all the terms used should be used to get involvement and temperature in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2812	With high ambitions about knowledge of breadth and knowledge at the top, Right will strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. Norway needs a greater knowledge base, new ideas and better solutions in the face of the future. The knowledge gap is now providing positive evidence in Norwegian school, but more challenges need to be solved in order to teach all pupils the skills they will acquire during schooling. After almost eight years of red-green government, it is clear that the school needs more of the Right Solutions. Still, almost one in five students leave primary school without being able to read and write properly. The spring of 2012 went 10.3 pst. of the country's 10th grade out of primary school with the grade 1 in the mathematics examination. The number of pupils receiving special education is increasing. 70 pst. are boys. Except 30 pst. students in secondary education do not complete or consist in five years and in professional subjects the proportion is sky high. It's not good with the math skills of the teachers. ==References== 9 000 teachers in Norwegian primary schools lack teaching skills for the steps they teach. Many teachers have a clear need for professional replenishment in their teaching subjects. Most importantly, in order to raise students' performances in mathematics and other subjects, skilled teachers throughout the school cycle are able to create enthusiasm and motivation among students. Right, the government doesn't do the right medicine to solve central challenges in Norwegian school. Since the Minister of Knowledge is not here, it is perhaps other members of the government who should now listen. Why aren't weak students caught up by the early effort measures the government boasts of? How is it possible that the new teacher training does not enable competent math teachers to be trained? Why does the government insist on voluntary child-care care when it is in the early stages of youth? And why does the government not impose competence requirements on all teachers? The road to new education for Norwegian school is a heavy commitment to the academic competence of teachers as the most important building block in the school. That is why this is the main effort of the Right in the alternative state budget. Research clearly states that good teachers promise all students regardless of their social background. Therefore, all students must have the same right to be met with professionally strong, competent teachers. The right is very impatient on behalf of the students. For this reason, the Right proposes a solid change in the pace of continuing education, so the Right proposes that the State should take a greater share of the bill, and therefore we will have a more decentralised and school-based system of continuing education. This is why – and now the State Council of Halvorsen should listen – the Right proposes a new half billion dollars more than the government for this important action and for developing more flexible, higher-quality offers. What's the government's school policy, and what's the goal after twelve years, which you haven't been able to achieve in almost eight years? The government has not done enough to reduce the costs and to offer more flexible offers to teachers, so that more people can take part in empowerment. The government has not done enough to allow more students to meet with early efforts and to reduce the need for special education. The government is now locking 600 new teaching positions to 170 of the country's 3,000 schools, so it's going to have to be less than 5 pst. of schools now being able to take part in a so-called appropriate training lift. How can the government know where the help is most needed, when the school owners are not taken on board? And how can the government know that these 170 schools will have the greatest need for help for four years to come? According to forecasts from the Statistical Central Bureau, Norway is likely to lack 11,000 teachers in 2020 — there are less than eight more years. At that time, it is most alarming that the government today has no strategy for avoiding a total teacher crisis in Norwegian school. The teachers we need in eight years' time must start their education as soon as possible. The right has called for new measures to increase the status of the teaching profession and to make the school an even more attractive job. The right has proposed master’s education for all teachers, the right and obligation to continue training, teacher certification, new career paths — and the latter is important for keeping skilled teachers. But I find that the government's answer – the only answer – has been to vote down and reject all the Right's proposals. No, we're facing a government with an idea-drier and a government that's standing without a solution to maybe one of the most fundamental problems of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2866	This financial debate is the last one before the election. The cards are added, now we see what the parties actually prioritize. And even though there's a lot of cracks, I'm not a second in doubt that the bourgeois, if they get a majority, will quickly agree on many points. It is not difficult to agree on areas where common objectives exist. That's why I'm not a second in doubt that the easiest thing to agree on is massive tax relief to the richest in this country. The government has provided a budget that is most heavily invested in the major welfare tasks. It is about securing the economy of municipalities, where the most important welfare services are provided. This is about continuing growth in the activity of hospitals, where more treatments have never been carried out than is currently the case. It is about continuing to build hospitals, and it is about the road and rail budget of the time, which is absolutely necessary to address the traffic challenges in urban areas and to facilitate business activity throughout the country. These are our priorities. The main priority of the right-hand side is and will be tax relief. They would like to talk nicely about research and education, which has also increased by 32 pst. Since 2005 — it has to be mentioned after part of what has been said in this debate — but if you look at the alternative budgets of the Right in the last few years, they have allocated seven times more to tax relief than to strengthening research and education. They would like to talk about increasing investment in infrastructure, but the Right's proposal for investment in the area is not close to matching the tax promises. Four times as much priority is given to tax relief for those who have the most. All of this is based on an old and well-known reasoning that by letting the richest more or less get away from paying taxes, a lot of activity will be created, and then hopefully it drips a little bit on us. When the representative Sanner spoke earlier today, it was very clear: he spoke as if having a great personal fortune meant creating jobs – I hope so! But this is no new idea. Bush, for example, tried it. In two rounds, huge tax relief was given to the wealthiest in the United States, and this has led to the richest percentage of Americans resting from the rest of the population in income development. But the American economy – to put it mildly – has taken a rather poor turn in the same period. In addition to poor results, there has been a very intelligible uprising among ordinary Americans, who actually pay taxes. This is pretty important. One thing is what the richest contribute in dollars and ears, but even more crucial is that we have a tax system that can be defended based on perfectly normal perceptions of what is fair. It's absolutely vital for people to be willing to be on the split layer. The right is also not content to suggest that some of the richest should not pay taxes. They make sure that ordinary families in Norway are reduced and that they receive a tax return of around 150 kroner a month, which is eaten up and well seen by increased nursery prices and increased food tax. It's fundamentally unsocial. The right promises that they will ensure that the richest also pay taxes, but they have absolutely no suggestions on how to do so, and they have no idea how much they think it is reasonable that they should pay. When the red-green government took over in 2005, we inherited a tax system after Bondevik, where those who put on the largest values barely contributed. It was not just that the progressiveness of the tax system was weak, it was actually regressive when a certain level of income was reached. People paid a larger and larger share with increasing income up to a certain point, and then it began to fall heavily, and for several of the richest, the reality was that taxes were barely paid at all. We have turned that around, and the conversion of property taxes is the main instrument that has provided it. I believe that the implication of this government's results is not only that more than 330,000 jobs have been created, no, that is, 330,000 jobs have been created while the income gap has fallen. The progressiveness of the tax system has been reintroduced. The richest pay taxes like never before, and every day 125 new jobs are created. At the same time, Erna Solberg says that the Right Target is a completely different society. Siv Jensen says she wants a total change in today's situation. There is a lot that can still be better in Norway; there are many tasks that still need to be solved, but we have taken Norway in the right direction since 2005 in relation to the major and important issues. Now the question is which direction the voters want to go on. At least this financial debate has helped to clarify what kind of alternatives we are facing, and I think that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2886	Today's debate fully shows that there is a great difference in how one perceives that reality is outside this house. When I heard the representative Micaelsen who boasted that this government is building roads and railways at a completely different pace than before, or as he said, we're building roads and railways in a big monn, then it might be good to see what the facts are. The government does not have very high ambitions in road construction. In 2012, they plan to open only 11 km of four-field motorway, 17 km of middle parts, 15 km of middle yellow stripe and 2 km of collective territory. In Sweden, between 50 and 60 km of quadruple roads are being opened, and about 460 km of mid-stations are being set up every year. While Sweden already has 4 500 km of non-conversational roads, Norway only gets about about. 500 km. Even in the 2013 election year, this government will build a lot of new ground. In 2013, they want only 15 km of quadruple motorway to be opened, 19 km of middle parts, 24 km of middle strip and 1 km of collective road throughout Norway. This is too bad. I want to say that both me and the Progress Party are happy about every meter of road and rail that is being built, but we think it is right to bear in mind how much there is today's way of financing and organising the development of a transport project in Norway. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is important to show action by using new funding methods to build up and upgrade roads and railways in Norway much faster than is currently the case. Therefore, for several years, the Progress Party has proposed, and once again proposes, the establishment of an infrastructure fund to ensure predictable and long-term financing of road and rail development in Norway. This can be seen in, among other things: done in Switzerland. There, a well-functioning road and rail network has been financed by providing funds to ensure predictable framework conditions. As several politicians in Switzerland said, this is done in order not to have to finance the expansion of the state budget, while providing predictable framework conditions to ensure rapid expansion. The Progress Party proposes to set up these funds in order to ensure predictable and secure frameworks, which ensure that funds are made available so that we can expand much faster than we can do today. Therefore, in our alternative state budget, we are promoting proposals for a total fund of 500 billion. kr, of which a railway fund and a metropolitan fund of 100 billion. kr each. It's also just a fraction of the oil fund, which was 3 723 billion. kr in the third quarter of 2012. The Progress Party also proposes that we establish two state-owned undertakings for road and rail respectively, where these are allocated a total of 15 billion in 2013. kr in equity of the companies, so that they can re-start the railway investment of the times in Norway. In addition to equity in 2013, these companies will receive money from the return on the fund so that financing for road and rail development can take place at a much faster rate than is currently the case. The Progress Party will also point out that massive road and rail development is the best way to invest in at present, and it will yield far better returns than foreign shares, London tradesmen or elsewhere in the big world. For the last ten years, the oil fund has given a return of about 10 %. 2.5 pst. This year. Cambridge Systematics has made calculations that show that you have to invest money in socially profitable road projects, and you get a return on amazing three and a half times what you invest. There are not many shares or other investments that can give. The second is that moving oil from the North Sea to the North Sea is about moving wealth from one area to another. The values will be there, for the joy of future generations. In addition, we know that motorways and middle parts also reduce fatal accidents by 70-90 pst, and that is important for the safety of all those on our country's roads. What we have proposed for years now will come because it has been done with great success in many other countries. What's a shame is that this means that we've wasted many years waiting and accident, years that should've been used instead to build up roads and railways in Norway. That's why I think the voters for next year will say that enough is enough, I think that the red-greens are costing out of government offices, and that you'd rather get a government that will build infrastructure in a safe way with the freedom to use new ways to do it, and with a power of action you've never seen before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2903	Some years ago, in 2001, we signed an agreement on a more inclusive working life. Then we set a goal, that sick leave should go down by 20 pst. Now we're getting pretty far in this work, and sick leave is reduced by 14 pst. In the private sector we have come a long way, with a decrease of 20 p.m., while in the public sector we have had a decline of 10.9 p.m.. But there are some major challenges. The major challenge for gender is that there is a greater difference between women and men now than it was ten years ago — and pregnancy-related disorders do not explain this. The second major challenge is that we see that there is an increase in mild mental disorders. The researchers also have no good explanation as to why this is the case, but it may be that many people encounter pressure in a tiring everyday life. It may also be that this with women having an increase in sick leave, and that we see an increase in mild mental disorders, have a connection. We have considered a lot of suggestions to reduce sick leave. A few years ago, the Prime Minister launched a wish to investigate this with national standards for medical messages in Norway. We had an expert group, and it gave us a clear answer: don't introduce national standards. The reason for that is two divided by two. First of all, workplaces are different. If you're a carpenter, it's harder to get back to work than it is if you might have a job in this room. In addition, people are different, and where we see an increase is in the case of mild mental disorders. And what is the norm for a depression? The expert group clearly says that the same thing can result in an increase, not a reduction, in sick leave. But it comes with many other proposals that we have followed up and that have had a good effect. But what I think is very strange, is that the right in this room resumes this proposal. I heard the representative Sanner say here before today that he should have a knowledge-based policy on property taxes. It is also stated in the Right's alternative budget that they should have a knowledge-based welfare policy. But introducing something more into health messages is the opposite of knowledge-based. On the contrary, our top experts say that this can lead to an increase in expenditure. But what's so special about the Right proposal is that they also say that this could lead to us cutting the budgets by 500 million. kr. Where do they take this number from? At least not from our top experts. This is not knowledge based. We would say that this budget is an important budget. We get an enhanced youth guarantee, which gives a better follow-up to the unemployed. We introduce work and education trips for people with disabilities, we make a strong increase to the ICT hub, and we provide a better offer to disabled people by providing pay subsidies to employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2916	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2919	I myself have experienced the joy of becoming a father, and it is not obvious that you have healthy children. Unfortunately, many people experience having children with disabilities and children with severe chronic diseases. Of course, you're just as happy in the kids as you are in all the other kids. But aids and social benefits, such as basic and auxiliary benefits, are crucial for working in everyday life. I note that the appropriations for these benefits have been heavily reduced for several consecutive years, and this continues – and is reinforced – in the 2013 budget. The Progress Party wants the security and predictability of the disabled and therefore believes that these benefits should follow wage developments. Can the Council of State explain to me in simple words why it is right that disabled and chronically ill children should be the balancing item of the state budget year after year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2928	Care allowance is calculated in the same way as sickness benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2933	Basic and auxiliary assistance was my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2938	The representative has to deal with the Rules of Procedure, and then the representative asks a question, and then the Council of State answers for 1 minute. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2943	Nursing money is based on the salary you have, just like sickness pay is. Then we also have other social benefits, such as care pay and social assistance. Now we just got a sample that wants us to see these benefits more closely in a context. There's a lot of good reasons for that, because what we've seen is that a lot of families with a disabled child become a kind of throwing ball between these different systems. That is why we want to see these systems in context, so that families with heavy care needs get a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2950	I'm recording that the government and the Council of State think it makes sense year after year to reduce the basic benefit and the auxiliary benefit, which are some of the most important benefits for disabled children with severe chronic diseases. But let me also ask another question. I have noticed that the government does not want to remove the age limit for aids for training and stimulation for people with disabilities, which must mean that the government believes that disabled people with low disability benefit are to be seen as so rich that they can properly cover the necessary aids in the hundred thousandths of a krona class itself. The Progress Party has called for proposals in the State budget for the removal of the age limit. We believe that it is necessary, regardless of age, to have the freedom of activity. My question to the Council of State is therefore: why does the government think it is right that disabled people over the age of 26 should not have freedom of activity in the same way as those under the age of 26?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2959	There are many reasons for removing this age limit, but in this budget, we have given priority to three other issues – which are, therefore, a high priority from the organisations of people with disabilities. The first is travel by work and education. The second is wage subsidies for those who will hire disabled people. The third is that those who are going to work and who have previously had a car with a trailer will instead have a specially built car.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2964	In the VG – on 1 November, it was well – state councillor Huitfeldt says that she had to make an unpleasant confession: the government is unable to get disabled people to work. No, in this field too, the government has shown enough implementation — despite the fact that it has been part of the IA agreement in the last 11 years and that there has been a high demand for labour in society. Disability is not the same as disability. There are barriers in the public space, in the workplace, among other things, that it is possible to build down. Grants for work and education travel are such a barrier – fortunately, the government has come after us and prioritised such travels. However, in its own job strategy — which only came out six years in the period — the government wrote that it wanted to make expanded efforts with another barrier prevention measure, namely functional assistance. There has been a pilot scheme since 1997. Why will the Government parties not support the fact that this scheme now needs to be made permanent and adequately funded?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2972	In this budget, we have prioritised work and education trips. There has also been a high priority from the organisations of disabled people. I agree that we have not reached enough in the case of people with disabilities in the workplace. But the disabled people's organisations warned at least very strongly about what is the Right Solution here, and there are several temporary jobs. I believe, on the contrary, that more use of wage subsidies, and that has been what we have prioritised in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2979	Maybe you can forgive the council, since she's only been sitting for two months, that she hasn't read the whole Right Policy for the Disabled. She might have taken a phone call to Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm, so she could update the council a little. On the right, it presented its employment strategy for the disabled, from good enough to best possible, two and a half years ago. It contained some of the measures that the government now finds possible to give priority — after seven years — and even more. Every year, in our alternative budgets, we in the Right have prioritised these measures: work and education trips. We've prioritised function assistant. We have prioritised better arrangements for the deaf and the blind, precisely because in order for people with disabilities or other people with disabilities to be brought into working life, we need to compensate. So the problem is not that the government lacks action, the problem is simply that they are unwilling to give priority to them. And then the question is, why?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2986	This budget represents a strong effort to increase the number of disabled people working through travel by work and education and by providing wage subsidies to those who will hire disabled persons. But what is the desire of disabled people's organisations is, after all, more pay subsidies, not what the Right believes, more temporary employment. I've been very good at what's Right Policy. It's very old, not much new. We have now implemented good measures to increase the number of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2995	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e2998	The right has now worked well with the alternative state budget, which Anniken Huitfeldt has fortunately begun to read, but we are even more motivated and even more delighted to be able to present the next state budget, which, together with our bourgeois friends, will be shown after the 2013 elections. In the Right Budget, we point to the need for new ideas and better solutions for Norway. The election next year is to have twelve years of red-green government, and – even worse – twelve years of government SV, or a new bourgeois government with Erna Solberg as an excellent prime minister. Right has new ideas and better solutions. The right again reduces the level of taxation in its government budget by what we call moderate and targeted tax reductions. The right side significantly increases the minimum deduction, we follow our promises to eliminate the property tax over a four-year period, and we reduce the inheritance tax. In addition, we improve the depreciation rules and contribute overall to increased savings, for example: through a strengthened BSU scheme. The right has in this budget real solutions to real problems for real people. A good public sector is important to ensure good welfare services for citizens. Therefore, in this draft budget, the right is placing on well-being that works. More people should receive treatment more quickly; more should go from social security to work. Unfortunately, health cows have increased in total under the red-green government, and the capacity of health services has been detonated. In our alternative state budget, we propose 340 million. kr to reduce the queues by 20,000 patients through private purchase and treatment. This has consequences for individuals, but also for enterprises with reduced sick leave. It's a well-being that works. In this draft budget, the right-hand side also believes that the building of Norway as a knowledge nation needs to be improved. Therefore, the right has new ideas and better solutions to allow Norwegian teachers to become even better, and Norwegian students and students to get even better. Many of those who work in the public sector are teachers, doctors and nurses. They're the ones who teach our kids something new and important every school day, and they're the ones who treat us, they're the ones who take care of us when we're sick or in need of care. For this reason, the Right in its Alternative State Budget has a strong commitment to empowerment both for teachers and for those working in health and care. We want to improve the quality by increasing the skills of healthcare professionals. It is mainly about giving more unskilled people the opportunity to take a professional letter, but also about turning more generalists into specialists. Right will give you 500 million. This increases the continuing training of teachers from the government's offer to 1,847 teachers to more than 4000 teachers. Furthermore, in its alternative state budget, the right is close to 2.5 billion. SEK for research and education. We also have a fairly large budget proposal on the road, and we want to spend 1.2 billion. kr more than the government to the road in our alternative state budget. We therefore signal a great willingness to build more roads through new ideas and better solutions, but not least more money when national transport plans are to be addressed in the United Kingdom as early as June 2013. The right-hand draft budget also reflects the view of the voluntary. Norway needs more sport — not less. We need more handball halls, artificial grass courts, swimming pool and plenty of jumpers. We need all children and young people to be able to play, learn and experience both challenges and mastering through sport. Sport contributes to addressing many major societal challenges in public health, social cohesion, integration and inclusion of e.g.: disabled persons. Storing and government can't expect sports to solve many of these challenges without getting the means they think they're going to get. The government is failing the sport in this state budget, and the Right is following up with its state budget and increasing the tipper key to the sport by 118 million. kr. And then we add 100 million. kr for the construction of sports facilities, which today we have to wait too long for funding and too long for construction start. It's also a lottery to know when the money comes, so that building loans can be converted into a regular bank loan. Right wants to give more money, so that the police officers who are out there looking out for us and do prevention can train more and practice more, that everyone who leaves high school gets a regular job, and not least to strengthen the ICT situation and the resource situation with regard to equipment. That is why the Right in its police budget proposes 200 million. kr for increased operation, 100 mill. SEK to ICT and 50 million. kr to the police in Oslo. Security in everyday life is important, and in the follow-up to the crushing criticism that came from the Gjørv Commission, it unfortunately looks as if the government has forgotten the ordinary police duties. In English, it is called ‘The Seven Year Itch’. In Norwegian it is translated into the seven-year crisis. It is characterised by: reluctance to the partner to irritate the success of others’ lack of dialogue little innovation and few or new discoveries of internal tension, not common tension to take each other for granted. This family crisis is also defined in the family protection office. This can be transferred to policy. This seven-year claw, or the seven-year claw, to which it is translated in Norwegian, is probably perceived differently from the members of the government and from the voters — or internally within the government. This may indicate that the voters are tired of the government, and very often it may also seem that the government is tired of the voters. It's maybe letting go of new forces. What the government hasn't done in seven, almost eight years, there's no reason to believe they're going to get through in twelve years. A government in which the Right is involved will have better executive capacity and more attention around management. Today’s government is characterized by playoffs, completed script – given to the state councils, and even to the staging representatives – and a low level of implementation or interest in leading and implementing. Neither is simplification nor bureaucracy high on the list of interests of a new or old red-green politician. The vast majority of people at Stortinget, especially from the red-green parties, have become interested in politics – is my claim – because they want to give more money to something, not necessarily because they have a political idea of how to govern society in order to get the best out of individuals and communities. The Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party agree more with their proposals for the state budget than the red-green ones were before the 2005 elections. We can say that in fact, but it also writes the evening post on Thursday 22 November, last week. The paper has looked at the alternative state budgets of the four parties – which, of course, we have done. But when it comes to supplementing it with everything you have by representative proposals and other cooperation arrangements you have in Stortinget, they have found a whole bunch of common denominators in areas such as transport, education and school, health, justice, family policy, agriculture, aid, income tax, property tax, inheritance and taxes. It was as the representative Marianne Marthinsen – perhaps for a slight moment – said that she had no doubt that the bourgeois parties would not quickly agree if they had a majority on the Stortinget. That optimism I too am delighted with. We agree more than the red-greens were in advance, and we're going to agree more than the red-greens themselves are in government – although it might not be the best scale. Right believe in dialogue with the voters. We believe in responsiveness to business, cooperation with employees – either in state, state or municipality. We believe in increased local autonomy for the municipalities. We believe in more freedom under the responsibility of individuals and citizens, and we believe that it is useful to make alternative policies and make alternative representative proposals, challenge the government with interpellations, challenge the government with oral and written questions and be a corrective en route, even though there are now seven, soon eight, too long years with a majority government based on the red-green. We will continue to put forward proposals that can give the country new ideas and better solutions, even if they are discouraged by the red-green – unfortunately, we have seen – on pure reflection instead of pure reflection. It's sad. We may have hoped that the next government would be more cooperative towards Stortinget. The process that has taken place since the state budget was completed has been seen. The process has been seen at the hearings in the financial committee, the recordings you get by letter, e-mail and telephones, and you have in fact confidence that the Stortinge can objectively listen to objective, common sense – and that there is no precedent in the matter. They're probably a little disappointed – one more time – not just about the red-green ones, but I think they're disappointed with the Storting as an institution, which hasn't got that opportunity. It's ironic that it's the government that has taken it from them, or it's the red-green maggots who have accepted that power has moved to those degrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3069	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3072	It sounds like we're going to heaven with the Right – but I have a question for the representative. Is it so that the representative himself agrees with his own party when he talks about maritime nutrition especially, because there he has a great commitment? In 2004, a big message, Willy, presented to growth, which did not give either shipowner or seafarer competitiveness. The shipping companies were simply on their way to flag out with civil chaos and unforeseeable on that side. After good dialogue with the industry, the government has presented a strategy called Stø kurst to this industry. Many measures have been involved and contributed to predictability here. Is it true that the representative agrees with his own party that we should not bet on our seafarers? The model of competence of the Right strikes the seafarers, because they cut out the lowest positions and therefore help to prevent many from entering the ladders.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3083	Thank you for a good and well-being reply from the representative, Mr Botten. It is good that there are several players in several parties who are genuinely interested in the maritime industry. Fortunately, that's also the Right. The government has now – it is probably the fourth or the fifth year in a row – cut into the net pay scheme that the representative Botten boasts. The right has a few hundred million dollars less in its budget for the net pay scheme. In our programme for the next period, the proposal of the Programme Committee is that the Right wants a competitive net pay system for the future. We're going to look at that. The right is also behind the shipping tax, which is a scheme that the government unfortunately challenged and lost in the Supreme Court. It imposed considerable costs on many shipping companies and led to a weakening of confidence in the red-green government. In addition, we know that companies – many of them are family-owned – will have a significant input of equity and opportunities for further growth if the Right comes into government with a better industrial policy, which goes on in general, in addition to the maritime one.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3090	The representative, Mr. Kambe, is talking about a seven-year crisis. It's a theme enough to have little experience with, and that's because the Right has never had a mandate from the voters to rule for as long as seven years. He says that the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party agree on most things, so I have a little test of it. Earlier in today's debate I challenged Christian People's Party leader Knut Arild Hareide on whether the Christian People's Party could guarantee that they would be on the 1st goal of aid policy. The red-greens have doubled the aid budget during their reign and met the target of 1 pst. of aided gross national income. Hareide guaranteed that it will not be cut into the aid of a government that includes the Christian People's Party. Can the representative Kambe testify to this victory of the Christian People's Party here and now and here and now put away the aid shots that Right has in its alternative state budget? Or will Kambe park the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3097	The representative Kambe is very keen to cooperate with the Christian People's Party. It's actually a party that helps to get the best out of the Right, as former Prime Minister Jan P. Syse has said. I actually agree with that after a long experience in cooperating with the Christian People's Party. I am also not in the situation that I can give a guarantee from Stortinget’s Chair on behalf of a party – any party. I am also not sure about the percentage, other governments have not got it all the way up. Then it's the percentage that's critical, not what you spend the money on. If you look at how the government has now spent money on logging, you can see that it has been very good. Some of that money does not use the government at all, they are in a blocked account in the Bank of Norway. Now the clock has completely gone down, President, I saw it only now, now I've got another minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3105	President, I'm sorry. [[screams]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3110	Would you like some juice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3115	Not juice, I'll start again. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3120	We shall start the clock when the representative is ready to begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3123	I'm afraid I must disappoint Kambe. Seven-year crisis – there is no sign of any seven-year crisis. It is true that experience suggests that if there is no character at this time, it will be a long time until the next crisis. So he must not have false hopes. So to this write together. If you go through and look at the financial settings, it's coverage to say that in many areas, these four parties have done the opposite, they've written from each other. Let me just mention three areas: Tax is a big difference – the Christian People's Party will increase, and the Right and the Progress Party will give difficult easier, in agricultural and district policy – everything that has to do with it, and in international politics there are huge differences. How can Kambe say that they've signed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3130	Well, I'll do it first. In the case of international policies, at least all four parties agree on the EEA. I understand that it has major problems for the red-green government, which is quite serious for Norway. There's even a big question for the government's court organ LO, which might turn around in terms of the EEA Agreement. There is disagreement in the government about NATO. Even basic things don't have the red-green parties to do, even after seven years of arranged marriage. When it comes to international policy, I think we're going to be able to do it in a civil government. We've shown it before, both the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left Party. We've been in minority governments and got a majority with the Advance Party before. In fact, I am glad that the developments that have been here in the Greatness between the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party are getting better and better. Despite the fact that the red-greens think they have a happy marriage, we actually have a wonderful engagement in the meantime. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3135	"Now they were afraid, yes." If the representative Kambe is the maritime spokesperson he said he was going around Rogaland in the election campaign, I wonder about seven years in opposition has contributed to the Right having a clear policy for the maritime industry and not least for industrial policy. I think it came out very little in his post, and I think the answer I got from him instead was bad in terms of this. When I travel around his state, no one is screaming for Right Policy. Neither Solstad nor Eidesvik nor others call for it, but they want an active enterprise policy where the toolbox is full and actively used. So what's the answer? When the Right Cuts and Weakens the Framework Conditions for Seafarers, who are actually the hub in the industry, I wonder how they will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3142	I am very pleased that the representative Botten also finds time to travel around Rogaland. She claims there's no call to the Right there – well, that's enough. She should perhaps start listening to those she is visiting, and remember that when you are a representative of a government party, rogalendians and Westerners are pragmatic people – you always relate to those who have power, and hope that it will soon pass. There is no doubt about what the Right's policy for the maritime industry is: we have a proposal on a strengthened maritime education, which the Labour Party unfortunately seems to reject once again, we have a policy on property taxes, inheritance tax and depreciation rules, otherwise we have supported the government a lot in the area of short sea shipping – there are many things that remain. Much of what stands in the sty course, there is unanimity about. What is now left of the Right is to see how, in May 2013, towards the programming process, a competitive net pay system of content is to be filled.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3147	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3150	In 2005, the red-green government took over a transport sector that had been in political hibernation for a long time. Today, I believe that the opposition is actually also pleased with the change of pace that has taken place in the field of transport, even though before the 2005 elections they mentioned the red-green promises such as airlocks and monopoly money. Today, 14.4 billion is granted. kr more to the road and track than when we took over. Nearly 1000 km of new national road is either open, under construction or will be launched in 2013. Of that's 400 km of non-conventional road. In 2013, a new asphalt cover of 950 km of national road is to be added. 24 major road projects shall be launched and 15 opened. It's going to be busy being a Minister of Transport. What has happened on the road side is a significant change of pace. What's happened on the railway side is equally important. The government has tripled railway investments. We have opened, have under construction and to start 100 km double-track railway. That means that the number of kilometers of double tracks will have increased by 40 pst. at the end of 2013, compared to when we took over. There has been a lot of positive progress in the field of transport in recent years, but of course there is a long way to go. I am concerned that we need to get more back for the money we have already allocated in the field of transport. A central approach in the future will be to see the transport system more as a whole. Whereas the national transport plan must become more clear on the transport needs to be met; We have to use the railway's most important advantage and expand the offer around the big cities so that people get to and from work. In the districts, roads, ferries and flights become essential to meet people’s transport needs. Alternative funding is a central debate, but so far it has too much focus on the instruments and too little on the target. What are the transport modes of demand? Well, that's predictability. If large-scale projects do not receive the funding they need to make good progress, the extra costs will be significant. The size of the projects and increased ambitions in the field of transport force greater predictability. Another way to get more money back is smarter contract strategies. It can be as simple as leaving the same actors in charge of both expansion and operation/maintenance. The size of the contracts must be adapted to a market with both Norwegian and foreign contractors. In addition, it takes too long to develop roads, railways and collective solutions. I believe that the solution – in addition to more predictable funding – is in a shorter period of planning and more coherent development. Accelerating planning is the key prerequisite for building more coherently. Today it becomes more pieceful and divided than necessary because the planning stops on some parcels. Today, when we are debating the 2013 budget, I must be allowed to make some comments on the opposition's and especially the Right's alternative budget. In the last year, the right has criticised the government’s efforts in the field of transport and has even responded with higher ambitions. In the context of the submission by the Right's Alternative State Budget, the Party's fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, stated: ‘Rightly, the government believes that the policy on transport lacks implementation. It is good that more is allocated to investments and operations in 2013, but more needs to be done." That's why I'm going to admit that the surprise was great when I read the Right Alternative Budget. They had, after all, recorded the need for implementation and greater efforts. Right, that's $800 million. kr extra for investment in the way. $800 million. kr means 3 km extra by four-field road or 5 km extra by two- and three-field road. I can't in any way see that these kilometers are relative to Right's criticism of the government or correspond to Right's own ambitions. In the case of the railway, the only thing I can see from the additional bet from the Right side is summed up to a railway lift in Holmestrand to 15 million. kr. In addition, the Right Government supports the proposal, and that is good. Actually, I think the right again has become recognizable. 5 B.C.E. kr in tax bills and promises of a little more money for transportation, that's how we remember Right. But in the transport field it is that well done is better than well said. This is also the case with the government, and we will continue to invest in a good transport offer throughout the country, even in the period ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3181	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3185	It sounded great when the Council of State said that since this government took over in 2005, it has increased the appropriations by 14.4 billion. kr. Yes, it's good to know that the oil fund has increased to almost 3,000 billion. kr in the same years, in which case the extra appropriations for transport will be extremely small. So a challenge for the Council of State, for the national transport plan is becoming the traffic waiting list and not the implementation list. I record that the Council of State is trying to say that the national transport plan has been met on all the projects, but I record that in the answer from the Ministry of Finance, among other things, is missing. E18 through Telemark, which was to be launched in 2013. But the question to the Council of State is, when are you going to get hold of the waiting list on transportation and make sure that you reduce the difference, the gap, between the need and the money you actually give to meet the huge needs of the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3192	It is difficult to fully know what to document from the results in order for the representative of Hoksrud to be satisfied with what is being done. But let me take a different angle of incidence and look at it a user on the Norwegian side today in relation to other Nordic countries. In fact, Norway today spends the most on road appropriations. It hasn't always been like this. Until 2004, Sweden used the most. Today, Norway is using significantly more for investment, maintenance and operation, both on the road and by rail. We have actually gone from using at least in the Nordic countries in 1995 to spending most in the Nordic countries today on maintenance. So I just have to bring new numbers to Hoksrud, so that he may eventually realize that something is happening here – I understand that he otherwise has difficulty understanding it. With regard to the priorities ahead, it is clear that the national transport plan should be a comprehensive balance not only of the different projects but also of the main transport needs that should be met over the next 10 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3199	Former party leader Åslaug Haga said that the E18 to the Swedish border would have been completed in 2009, and I hear that the Council of State Arnstad says that a change of pace has now taken place. In that case, I wonder which, because in 2006, a share of the government budget was used at 0.78 p.m. and in 2013 0.78 pst is used. The railway is completed by 34 km, which is the rate change of 8 years – 4 km per year. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether the Council of State sees that it is not just about money, it may also be about new methods both for planning and construction to achieve a greater degree of realization than what I see so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3204	I wonder if the representative Ingjerd Schou here compares apples to apples and not apples to pears, that one here does not draw the county roads out of comparison on the proportion used on the road. I'm not going to go further on that, just saying that some of the things that show that this government rate is, is that the fraction of all the middle parts of this country is built after this government joined. We've quadrupled the bet on rascal routes, and we've tripled the investments on the railways. It's clear that there's still a lot left, and there's still a lot that needs to be done to get a good enough standard on the road and the railway. It is also the responsibility of the government, and it is also the responsibility of the priorities to be included in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3209	I want to challenge the Council of State in an area that the government itself has said it priorities and that it thinks is important. It's for the bike and the bicycle part. The government's goal is 8 pst. We have experienced a decrease from 2005 to 2009 from 5 to 4 pst. We know that the bike part in Sweden is at 12 pst. So it's going to be three times as big a bicycle part in Sweden as in Norway. In the NTP for the period we are now in, the government said that a wanted a concentrated effort in the cities. Now we see that the target achievement in the cities is just 42 pst. In 2013, it is planned to travel 10 km by bicycle. So it would take 35 years to meet the needs of our cities. I know this is both a state and a municipal responsibility, but is the Council of State happy with the results?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3214	Let me say it so that I think that the need is great on the route and the cycle path, and it's an area where a constant feels that one could have done a lot more than one do. Now it's not bad what the government has done. Since we took over, it's been opened 429 km with new walking and cycling routes, and that's actually a lot. But what's a little bit of the problem is that I think there's too little continuous walking and cycling fields, and it's also that it's harder to build continuous cycling fields in the big cities. It's a money question, but it's not just a money question, it's also a planning question to get the lines planned in such a way that a person can get to a continuous cycling network. But there I think I would say that this is an area where the government is going to lift its ambitions further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3219	With the level of ambition that the Council of State has, it will probably take many years for the representative Hoksrud to be satisfied: 1 km of collective field to the next year, 15 km of motorway, 19 km of middle parts, 24 km of yellow middle stripe. So in Sweden, they're opening 50–60 km of four-field highway this year, opening 160 km of road with middle parts, and they're spending less money than Norway. It definitely shows that there's a need to look at how to do things here to build more roads and not build as small as we're doing. I want to challenge the State Council, because she boasts that so much has been done in this period: Trygve Bratteli had a motorway plan that was adopted in Stortinget in 1962, which promised 785 km of motorway by 1980, and we now need 300 to 400 km of motorway to be there in 1980. Then it is not very ambitious with 15 km of motorway in 2013 and 11 km of motorway in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3226	As I said, I think it's going to be difficult to make the representative Hoksrud happy. I think it's necessary to see what you're doing, in a whole. It is then that during this government it has been opened, it is under construction or road projects will be started for a total of 1000 km during this period. Of them, 400 km is a non-conventional road. It's not true, as Hoksrud said in his speech earlier today, that there is only 400 km of non-conversation road in Norway, which is actually almost 700 km of non-conversation road in Norway. Meeting-free road is not just four-field road, as we all know. I have seen the alternative budget of the Progress Party, and the Progress Party is actually going to spend less on road investment in 2013 than the government proposes. They do, because they remove all the tolls, and because they do not take in sufficient returns from a proposed fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3235	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3238	After hearing Mr. Kambe's statement, this will well be regarded as my virgin post as newly engaged. The Progress Party is concerned about developments related to the migration challenges of hospitals, the economy of hospitals, waiting lists and, above all, equipment. We therefore want to implement comprehensive measures to strengthen and improve the health sector in our alternative budget, and I am actually very proud that our party has as strong a health profile as it has. The measures we are proposing are all focused on the patient focus. And yes, the Norwegian health care system is good, many get help, and in critical areas something goes in the right direction. In fact, most of it is due to all the good people working in Norwegian health services, often under very difficult framework conditions. Despite this, unfortunately, we often see and hear about all those who fall outside, and very often this is because the system is put in front of the individual, or the patient. The Progress Party therefore proposes to increase the hospital budget for 2013 by 1.5 billion. kr. From our side, there is a significant investment in reduced health cows through the purchase of services from private and non-profit providers in both Norway and the rest of the world. We're doing this with a total of 750 million. kr. This is channelled through health enterprises, and the Progress Party assumes that this means that health businesses enter into agreements on treatment with different actors and that there should be no difference between regional health businesses, and in this way the patient is treated independently of residence. This must also be seen in the context of wanting a free treatment choice, which we have debated earlier this week, and the patient thus regains freedom. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to equalise private and public service providers, which means that the overall capacity of the healthcare system will be better used. In order to ensure increased patient treatment and effectiveness, the ISF share is also increased, from 40 to 50 pst. In this way, the health performance of the Advance Party is characterised by action, and in my opinion, contrary to the government, which allows the shooting to continue without the necessary change of course. When we propose this, something always happens that amazes me. The government parties claim, and for no reason whatsoever, that we are proposing to deprive people of social rights. They come to that conclusion because the Progress Party takes the consequences of treating more patients, and when treating more patients, these patients will be able to go back to work, and thus they disappear from the social security budget – not because we have removed some rights, but because they are healthy and back to work. Let me stress it as clearly as I can: the Advance Party has not proposed to remove a single right in this way for the individual. No, we're introducing a new right, the right for so many, many more to be treated. And we all have to believe in this room that treatment means that people are getting better, and that this means that there is fewer in social security. The progress party is concerned about, and the government should also be, the maintenance of the Norwegian health care system and the state of the ICT systems. The fact that Norwegian health services and Norwegian municipalities are still the largest purchaser of faxes and continue to send journals in taxis should concern more than the Progress Party. There is a great need for a comprehensive ICT system for the health sector as a whole to talk together. It is assumed from our point of view that one common ICT system can and must communicate with the primary health services, such as: toy guard. Therefore, the Advance Party proposes to cancel the hospital debt by 1 billion. kr. It provides room for new investments in ICT, in medical and technical equipment and in hospital buildings. This is entirely dependent on the Norwegian health system in order to achieve the necessary conversion and effectiveness, but above all in order to improve patient safety and a better patient focus. With the commitment of the Progress Party to health in its alternative budget, the patient has the freedom to choose, we have a safer health system, and not least our proposal is influenced by the lack of government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3261	Patients are largely satisfied with health care when describing meetings with those who work there, but they also say that they are very often dissatisfied with the organisation. It's a good diagnosis of our health care system. For Norway, there is a good health service where most people receive good help, not least thanks to the efforts and competences of all those working there. But we still have big challenges: Too many people are in line for needed health care, and they wait too long. Ruspacers and psychiatric patients don't get the help they need. We save many from death, but we don't always help them back to life. There is a need for substantial investment in modern hospital buildings, a new ICT infrastructure and, above all, more new medical and technical equipment. Many older ones do not get the care they should. There is a lack of space and competence in municipalities. This requires new ideas and better solutions. The number of waiting for treatment has increased by 70,000 patients under this government. The waiting time is now on average over two months. Many patients wait much longer. In 2011, there were more than 60,000 deadlines. These are patients who have received a medical deadline for their treatment. 'It's natural with queues,' said Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre in the debate with me on the New Year's Eve eighteen last Thursday. No, it is not natural for 270,000 patients to wait for treatment and to wait on average for over two months. Last right in government, we reduced health cows by 70,000 patients, and we reduced the average waiting time by 151 days, or five months. Queues are not natural – but queues have become a natural result of a red-green health policy. The right is proposing to provide 20,000 more patients with treatment in private hospitals, we are increasing the appropriations for public hospitals, and we want to introduce free treatment options. When we remove the red-green rationale and the patient is given the opportunity to choose, the queues will go down again. It's well-being that works. This year, the government has given drug addicts a triple call: First, in 2012, they removed the rule to ensure a larger increase in treatment provision for drug addicts in the specialist health service, in 2013, they will eliminate the 330 million. Dr who has been earmarked for good provision to drug addicts in municipalities, and then they have submitted a drug report without ambitions for the future. Now we see that good drug institutions that have produced good results over the years are being put down even if over 2,500 are in line, and many of them want exactly these institutions. This is right up in its alternative budget, and fortunately we have our friends in the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Precautions shall be given by hospitals as a priority. We donate money to maintain good treatment institutions, and we still earmark money so that municipalities can provide an offer to drug addicts both before and after treatment. Then we're going to raise our ambitions further when we're dealing with the paper on drugs. On November 1, Severin wrote on the Facebook page to preserve Nybøle: «Today it is 2 years since I was admitted to Nybøle. [[...]] I haven't touched drugs in 733 days. I have not touched alcohol in 447 days. [[...]] On Monday I have the exam in Wetroom Base Module A iht Wetroom Standard My industry as an independent mason is going reasonably well.» [[...]] Providing long-term treatment and rehabilitation to drug addicts so that they not only become drug-free but also tackle life without drugs is well-being that works. I also believe that investing in these kinds of drug institutions might be the best way a society can spend the money. This actually yields significantly greater returns than investment anywhere else. Chronic illness and people who have undergone major surgery often get good help with the disease itself, but they do not get enough help to live with the disease or come back to life. The National Audit Office’s review of the rehabilitation offer concluded that there had been no measurable strengthening of the rehabilitation offer in the specialist healthcare service since the entry of the red-greens. I don't think they're going to get anything in twelve years that they haven't done in almost eight. This year, patient organisations had to use their powers to fight the government's treatment cuts. Fortunately, they got ahead, but they should have won with what an overall opposition suggests: a separate escalation plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The interaction reform, the Hagen Committee, the Fredericia model – all of them political proponents that are drawn up to describe the solutions to the health challenges that health services face by increasing their age. Instead of talking about what is going to happen in the future, one should start now, with what is a prerequisite, namely a better rehabilitation offer. Helping people to master their own everyday life is well-being that works. The facsimile has got its clean-up after the Interaction Reform. Now there are highly qualified nurses and faxes for the municipalities, while there are nurses at the other end and waiting for the fax to arrive. There is a need for better electronic interaction on the patient. On the right, the health service’s fax will be abolished, but the state will also have to contribute. We are becoming more and more inhabitants of Norway. The disease picture changes, and there are several older people. But the hospital buildings don't follow. Today’s investment rules lead to planning taking too long. A planner for small, and a driver for long with old barley. The right therefore proposes that the State should contribute 70 pst. loans instead of 50 p.m., as today. Modern hospitals with medical and technical equipment and electronic exchange of information about the patient are a prerequisite for well-being that works. Norway has a good health care system where many people get help. Security of assistance when you need treatment and care is a support bar in the Norwegian welfare model. At the same time, many of those who have the greatest need for help do not get what they need. This is serious. In the municipalities we see that one still has great challenges because very many are unskilled. Over 30 pst. of those working in the care sector are unskilled. Many of these make an amazing effort every single day. Many people also want to receive a vocational education, a professional letter, or an education as a nurse. And we know that it's a relationship. Competence-priority municipalities also have the best results in terms of quality, but not least provide the most reasonable services. So they're going to get more for the money. Therefore, the Right proposes to increase the pool of competences in the municipal health and care service by 150 million. kr in relation to the government budget. The government is far from reaching the goal of 12,000 new lucky day care places. One of the reasons why one does not achieve this objective is that the current financial instrument is too poor. Therefore, the right-hand side proposes a top-level funding which means that the municipalities with the largest expenditures, which have the greatest challenges, which have the most expensive areas and thus the biggest challenges of building spaces, are also financed through an interest-rate compensation scheme. Then we propose rule changes that make it as easy to contribute to building nursing homes for private ideas as it was for private ideals to help build kindergartens. Only then will we achieve the goal that everyone who needs it will have good luck and care. The increased use of self-financed private health services by the Nordics is a sign of a weakening of confidence in the Norwegian model. Ensuring good health and care services for all is a public responsibility. Therefore, the Right will provide everyone with the necessary health care when they need it. Drug addicts and mentally ill people do not receive sufficient help. The health system saves many lives, but often fails when there is a need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation to get life back. Cancer patients experience too long diagnosis and lack of access to new treatments. Many people wait too long for simple intervention, even if there is no capacity at home. Too many people are injured and die as a result of defects and deficiencies in the healthcare system. Right wants to take care of the value of everyone's right to the same health service, regardless of the economy. It's an important part of the Nordic model. But if we are to maintain this objective, we need to be willing to apply new ideas and better solutions, and that is exactly what the Right Alternative State Budget involves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3329	Throughout the day and the debate, we have discussed in several rounds with various representatives from Bent Höie's Right Party that tax policy has once again become the sharpest line between the different government options, where the Right is a leading star on the bourgeois side. In repeated examples, we have shown that, for example: the removal of the property tax, as confirmed by Bent Höie in the batch programme draft earlier in the autumn as a measure for the Right, has a number of less fortunate effects. But there are also others who have today contributed their views on the property tax, and I thought I would ask briefly whether Bent Höie is behind the following description of the property tax as a tax type. Julie Brodtkorb, head of the Right Women's Forum, writes in Today's Business today that the wealth tax has led to greater differences between rich and poor in Norway, and that Olav Thon will stand with his red hat in hand when he pays taxes on wealth. What is the opinion of the Vice-Chairman of the Right on such wordings?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3338	I believe that the strange wealth tax, which we only have in common with Italy and France, is a tax that affects Norwegian ownership. It affects not least local ownership. It hits my local sausage maker in Stavanger, Lake Idsøe, who, even if he goes under, has to pay a property tax on his stock of hams and on the cutting machines and dishes in the store. It is totally unreasonable that a family-owned company should have to borrow money to maintain jobs and a good offer to the residents of Stavanger. What's important if we look ahead in time to ensure that we still have a high level of employment in Norway is that we have a local, national ownership, that we focus on research and education, and that we have an infrastructure that makes the goods come to Europe. It is also an essential prerequisite for more people not to be poor in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3345	I thank you for the answer from Bent Höie, but that is not what I asked for. What I asked about was how the Right Women's Policy Leader refers to the wealth tax, that it contributes to greater differences between the rich and the poor in Norway, and whether it is that Olav Thon and others, for whom I have full respect, but which I also believe must be able to contribute to the community through, among others. the taxes on wealth must be held by the hand when they pay their taxes to the income earner each year. I would like an answer to that. I don't think I'm going to spend more of my speaking time, I'm going to leave it to Bent Höie to give a description of whether this is a fair presentation of the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3350	Right and I believe everyone with tax powers is going to pay taxes. Now I haven't read the post you're talking about, which probably Julie Brodtkorb has written. But she probably has a very good reason for the introduction you're talking about. At least what is certain is that the wealth tax affects local and national ownership. But when the Right wants to work to escalate and remove the wealth tax, we are also very clear in the same program design that everyone with tax powers is going to pay taxes. Therefore, in line with our falling down and liquidating the property tax, we will make other changes to the tax system to ensure that Olav Thon and others with tax ability pay taxes. I don't think people are holding hands when they pay taxes. The payment of taxes is a prerequisite for the welfare society that Right wants to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3357	The President will only be reminded that our Rules of Procedure say that all speech should be addressed to the President. You don't have to use "you".
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3360	It's interesting to see what the Right Priority is in its budget, for example. taxes on wealth, but not the poorest children. Children with one dependant have two and a half times as likely to end up poor as others. It's incredibly tough to be a lonely caregiver. Nevertheless, the Right cuts the entire income of families – what they will live on for two years while qualifying. That's the arrangement now. What they're going to live on, there's no trace of in the Right Budget. There are no additions in any other areas. Today, 21,674 children live in these families. In addition, when we know that the Right will cut the child supplement to the poorest, those with the least income, those with disability – and more than 30,000 children – it is a direct decision that many thousands of children will live in poverty. How can this priority be defended by the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3365	Too many children in Norway today grow up in families who experience poverty — who are poor. There are many reasons why people in Norway are poor, but a common reason is that adults in the family are long-term or permanently out of work. The causes of this are also complex, but very often they are linked to illness, intoxication or mental problems. It is therefore not right when the representative Karin Andersen says that there are no ‘tracks of’ additions in the Right Budget. On the contrary, the right rates are precisely on the weakest in society, both to help them get better and to work, but also with measures related to returning to work. Because there is only one solution that over time will help these poor children, and it is that they grow up in families where one or two are working.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3370	Right is concerned about health cows and a classed health care system. I see that they in the budget increase the public hospital budget by 0.15 p.m., while the big grips are that they lose the public health service by taking funds from it and crediting them to private providers and then introducing free treatment options that completely sidestep public and private providers. This dresses right very well. Looking at the free choice of hospitals, it shows that the most resourceful people are using such schemes. The right's health history is, therefore, building a large private market for hospital services, where the public pays while private activities are being carried out. This is a system we know from other countries. My question to the Right and the representative Bent Höie is: What country can the Right point to that practices this system, and where there is a smaller class division of health than in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3379	What Kjersti Toppe said was very interesting. She mentioned in her question that this is a system we know from other countries. If Kjersti Toppe knows this system from other countries, I would like to get a tip, because at least I don't know the Right System from any other country. What we are proposing is unique to Norway. It's based on an idea that I know all the parties in Norway have in common: the idea of accessing health care regardless of their own economy, and one should not have an insurance-based healthcare system, but a health service funded by the tax code. Therefore, the Right proposes that one as a patient, once a patient has been granted a right to treatment for the public, is a priority patient who should be able to choose between public and private services. This is to avoid what is happening today, namely that many patients experience getting the answer: you have to wait half a year for treatment if you want the public to pay, but if you can pay for it yourself, you can come tomorrow. That's why we now see a health care service where the wallet never before mattered that much.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3384	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3388	It's hard to be young and poor. That's why I'm so upset that there are parties in this room that by direct decision in the Stortinget propose to make more children – yes, thousands – poor. The representative, Höie, replied in a reply to me that the most important thing is that people come to work. Yes, we've turned the social benefits into single-parents, so that after one year you have to be in action, in education or on measures to get the benefit, just to get people to work. What's so important about it is that these families have a safe income while qualifying, because it's hard to be lonely, much harder than being two. It's a lot harder for the lone parent to do the promise to qualify. That's why we've changed the amount of the social benefits. Right-cuts it, front-cuts it. Over 1 billion. kr per year is taken from the poorest families of children, the most at risk of poverty for generations. I mean it! There are thousands of children. When we also add what the Right has intended to do with the child supplement in the disability disability, namely to remove the need-tested child supplement of the 30,000 children who are in that system, we know that there is a direct decision on many more - tens of thousands - of poor children. We have to stop that. This is why the government has taken two of the most important measures to reduce child poverty. It's to bet on child protection. Child protection goes like a black, evil thread through generations of evil lives. That's why the effort we've been making over several years in the area of municipal child protection is so important. It's about getting late as early as possible, because these children and these families need help early. I also look at the opposition's budgets. They cut the state child protection and add more money to the municipalities. I would also like more money for the municipalities in this respect. But to cut the state child protection, we can't do it until we have measures in place in the municipal sector to help these children. They need help. If not, we know from Nav's own figures and surveys that there is a safe connection between having it difficult as a child and having it difficult as an adult – getting it difficult in the next generation, and in the next generation – because it is the underlying problems that are not solved. It is not possible to remove the state measures to help the young people who need the most complex and complex assistance services in the state child protection system. That's why it's quite outrageous to see that they're doing it. I'm very pleased with the bet that the government is now doing, because I know that will mean a lot in the long term. Then there are the immigrant women. Many immigrant women are far from Norwegian work when it comes to qualifications, but they also do so because they are not – perhaps through a culture – used to women working, and perhaps they are not allowed to do so either. That's why the government has invested in Jobjesen. The job opportunities are an outreach offer to immigrant women, where they need to be motivated and qualified to get to work. The fact that women have work and pay is what has made most women in Norway not poor. It's so incredibly important, but we need to have the most effective measures against this group, because it's also in this group we see that child poverty is increasing. In immigrant families with one caregiver, or two, perhaps none of them are at work. If Mom gets qualifications and work, we know it's the safest thing we can do to protect children from poverty. It's like that in Norway, like it's been here, like it's going to be in most other countries. Focusing heavily on the strengthening of child protection, so that these children and young people — and families — get help early, is a hugely important policy on poverty. Making sure that these immigrant women get started on the long road to getting a job – it's going to take years for many of them, so we have to be patient – is very important. This is long-term, good bet against child poverty and for good inclusion of everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3405	It's a privilege to present a government budget to Norway. Low unemployment, stable economy, high employment growth – in both the private and public sectors – makes the country’s economy go well. Unlike many other countries in Europe, Norway is experiencing economic growth, and population growth is historically high, largely due to migration from abroad. We also see growth in more municipalities than we have in more than 60 years. After the presentation of the budget, there has been a great deal of debate on the percentage of customs duties — a matter for which the Central Party in particular has fought. It is an important issue to ensure the production of short-range food in the future. But also other major budget investments make me proud of my government's contribution. We continue the strengthening of the municipalities – high-recorded promises that provide room for multiple teachers, several nurses, training of schools and municipal roads. We're going to bet heavily on the trade, we're going to have a high measure of trade, and we're going to reach them. We'll keep that promise. All large, ready investment projects will be started. The contrast is strong at last Right set in government. They had low targets that they didn't reach. We strengthen the economy to teams and organizations. Young people and parents can spend more time on choirs and corps and less time on bingo and lottery because we are approaching a billion in VAT compensation. This is the biggest investment in voluntary work over the state budget ever. For the Central Party, this is the best budget we've ever provided, and we're proud of it. The government is proud of that, and I, as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, am particularly proud that we can present a local economy in Norway – in a world full of treasonful economic storm clouds, where the inhabitants of most other European countries have to wait less help from the public in the future – that strengthens well-being. We're the exception. We have room for action. With the red-green government, our country is further strengthening local welfare. Here the ideological differences are clear, because the right party has a message that they want to change the tax bias between the municipalities, and they want to remove the small municipality advantage. Today, we are being bullied so that all municipalities have the opportunity to create good welfare. If it was so wrong that the country had a change of government, it would be replaced by classic right-wing policies. Rich municipalities will become richer, and poor municipalities will become poorer. And the right side will lock huge values from the districts into the cities. Without dithering, small Tolga municipality will lose more than 2 million. kr. If that happens, the spokesman says they have to cut settings in schools, cultural schools, health and care. I think many district spokesmen will recognize that image. The removal of the small municipality will only frame 158 small district municipalities. The right-hand side will take about 900 million. kr from the smallest municipalities, and then it is about many smaller municipalities about the ability to live on and provide good services to their inhabitants. Housing policy is high on the government's agenda. We shall facilitate the construction of more dwellings. We're going to simplify the construction process. We're going to give all the possibilities of a safe and safe home. We are strengthening the budget with a range of housing policy instruments. The biggest effort will be directed against the Husbank. We've already increased the House Bank's frame by 5 billion. kr in year. We will also continue this reinforcement in 2013. In the debate on a hot housing market, we must also bear in mind that those who left the housing market before are even more difficult now. We're going to make it easier for us to build more buildings, we're going to make it possible for a well-functioning housing market. But we also need to look for strong housing-social tools and help those at the bottom of the table, who are not loudest in the press or have strong speakers. And for the red-green government, it will always be most important to help those who need it the most. The government is busy making the best possible use of both human and natural resources across the country. It's a good investment. Active district policies over decades have worked. Norway is a country with small regional differences on a European scale. It won't happen by itself. It requires a sustained willingness to prioritise through the broad and narrow rural policies. That's why we're making the long-term effort. People should choose to work and bow where they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3436	Council of State Navarsete boasts of the local economy and that this budget strengthens well-being. Now, when a chatter with local politicians around the municipality of Norway, you don't feel that well-being is being strengthened. KS has also gone through the state budget and looked at how it turns out in the local economy, and they say that this will be sufficient – and no more than that – to maintain today's service provision in the municipality of Norway. So there's no strengthening of well-being. While we see that municipalities have built up an extraordinary amount of debt in recent years — a dramatic amount of debt — the maintenance process is increasing. This means that the municipalities use more than the income they earn. And then my question to the Council of State is, how does she explain that this is a strengthening of well-being when we see that the debt rises and the maintenance shift increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3441	Just as politicians at large and governments have ambitions, so local politicians also have high ambitions for their inhabitants. I never think the day will come when there will be a lot of money on book in many municipalities, because when the frames increase, the activity will also increase. There have been 55 000 more annual works in Norwegian municipalities in the period 2005 to 2011. We've strengthened the economy by 61 billion. kr. It shows up again. It's marked on the services around. That's the feedback we get, and KS, who is its spokesperson, said, when we put forward the municipal proposition, very positively about the budget that this government has now provided. When we've been around municipal conferences in all the counties, I don't think it's been the only critical question of the financial framework. But there are many other and important questions we've been discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3446	I now note that the Council of State owes it to municipal politicians, that there are municipal politicians who have too high ambitions, that this is what makes the build-up of debt so dramatic in the municipality of Norway, and that the maintenance process is increasing. What makes municipalities use more than income is that local politicians have too high ambitions. Then I want to right with the Council of State: if it had been local politicians, what re-priorities would she have done, what would the Minister of State have given priority to what the local politicians are giving today? What advice should be given to local politicians who are struggling to meet their ends and who see that the local debt is increasing, that the maintenance run is increasing and that the service provision is not improving? What does the Council of State think municipal politicians should deprioritise?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3453	I was a local and regional politician, both in fact, until 2005, under the Erna Solberg regime and the blue government supported by the Progress Party. The recipe for us that time was actually to cut the settings, and we did that in the municipality, rich. I don't want it to be the situation around the municipality of Norway today. I didn't say there were too many ambitions either. I said that as much as we do at national level, there is also a high ambition locally and a desire to provide people with good services. And it does, because people in the municipalities are actually very happy with the services, to a large extent. It shows investigations that they are. It's the municipalities themselves that have responsibility, which I had as a local politician with my colleagues, to house with the framework that one has. The signal from KS to us in government is that one has been satisfied with the economic development and the framework one has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3460	About last year's government councillor Navarsete visited a fantastic company in Drammen, Aass Bryggeri. In any case, according to NHO’s websites, Navarsete and Bernander stand against the property tax. I had to go there a little later and look at the items in the Tagesrevyen. Also there the Council of State says that she will remove the property tax on working capital. On a website called BetterSkatt.no, the Council of State said in February that the Centre Party would work actively to remove the property tax on working capital. Now we see that the government parties have made the wealth tax, I had almost said, the biggest attack on welfare here in Norway. Will the Central Party still work to remove the wealth tax on working capital, or is this the promise to the business community in the districts sacrificed on the red-green altars?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3469	The centre party has not sacrificed any part of the application on the altar. We're going to move on because what I think is good business policy, among other things. removing the taxes on wealth on working capital. But there are several ways to Rome, and what this government has done is that we have raised the bottom subtraction to nearly 900,000. It also helps many smaller businesses around, which have thus received less taxes on wealth. Not least it also helps, of course, which I believe Right before today was busy with, many of those who needed savings and don't want to tax them. I am busy with the possibility of developing well in the districts, having good dialogue. What we have done on business, what we have done on industrial policy in a broad sense, and raising the bottom line in the wealth tax has given us many positive feedback. And then we're going to work on it, not on removing the wealth tax, but on working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3478	In recent years, municipalities have experienced an increasing number of tasks from the state, including the care of drug users, which is now included in the municipal framework. Of other things, we can, among other things, mention the interaction reform, which is a state reform which the municipalities have had to contribute with considerable resources. A survey of national rapporteurs and advisers showed that the gap between expectations and what the local economy provides has increased in recent years. So the rapporteurs and the advisers say that the state imposes tasks on the municipalities that they can't afford. At the same time, in its press release to the budget, the Council of State said: «We turned a long trend with narrowhans in the municipalities. It has provided room for good social development.’ This is not consistent with what rapporteurs and advisers say, so I would like to ask the Council of State: who is right – is it the rapporteurs and the councillors or the councillors?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3487	I think you'll always find spokesmen and advisers who should have loved more money. As I said in a previous answer, I don't think one comes to you that one in the individual municipality, or that one in all municipalities, will feel that the economy is better, but the economy is better. KS, TBU and others who take this into account say that the economy is better. We're looking at the operating result, we're looking at the enormous activity. 55,000 more work in municipalities. They're teachers, they're nurses, they're nurses, they're nursery officials and they're added in all sectors. In child protection, we've had a big growth. It's clear that it's also a part of pushing the economy. But it also means that people in this country get good services. I will continue the job that both I and the entire government have done to raise the municipal economy. But the signal from the KS that we have received this year, both in the spring and in the budget now in the fall, is that the framework seems to be quite acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3495	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3498	The Christian People's Party will create a school of learning, mastery and well-being. We want a school that, in cooperation and understanding with the home, equips children for life. We will do that by prioritizing more competent teachers over several hours, by ensuring active value sharing, strengthening cooperation with parents and combating bullying. One of the best investments we can make is investing in children's knowledge and growth. But we also need to invest properly, and I am convinced that we need a completely different priority and commitment from that provided by the government in growth and education policy. We have the prerequisites, but then we have to invest and invest properly in both schools, higher education and research. In recent years, the government has consistently prioritised school policy errors by spending billions of hours of instruction on the very smallest free hours in the SFO, and, in this budget, cultural school hours on the SFO. The Christian People's Party wants a new course in school policy, where instead of several hours we are betting on more and even better teachers, a better high school and the fight against high school dropouts. A good school is completely dependent on good and many enough teachers. The teacher is the school's most important resource, and therefore the Christian People's Party will also spend the great money on the teachers. In our budget, we prioritise teachers by re-prioritising the increase in hours to a completely different investment on the teachers in school than the government proposes. We'll give 250 million. kr to more teachers, we also want a much more ambitious investment in continuing training for teachers and we suggest 260 million. NOK to this. Meeting between a student and a teacher is crucial to getting good learning. That's why we're giving 75 million. kr to start a mandatory year of introduction for newly trained teachers. Since 2001, there has been cross-political agreement in this room that Kongshaug Musikgymnas would receive an additional grant to cover the costs of instrumental training. The premium rate for music, dance and drama does not cover these costs. The government has proposed to remove the grant, and the middle of the school year, in a non-discrimination trial between Kongshaug and the Steinerskole in Oslo. Both the way this was done and the fact that only half of the year has been corrected, Kongshaug puts it in a difficult situation even in the future. This believes the Christian People's Party is totally unacceptable. We've fixed it up in our alternative budget, but unfortunately it's just paper money and doesn't allow new students to start next year. Many churches have still not been included in the Church's most important reform, namely the reform of religious education. The Christian People's Party is afraid that this could lead to an A- and B-layer in Church-Norway. We are critical that last year's government postponed the government's adopted escalation plan, which means that we are not yet in target, despite the year's allocation from the government. We are therefore proposing to further increase the allocation by 50 million. kr. We are also critical that there are no appropriations for ICT in the Church. The Church Council and the KA have been preparing to acquire a common platform for the Church's digital communications for more than two years. Tenders have been made, and the choice of supplier is now in the final phase. The plans for a uniform effort for the Norwegian Church are now in danger of stopping completely because the government has not agreed to grant the necessary money to get this project up and running. As a result, important skills and investment are at risk of being lost. So we're proposing to grant $20 million. kr to the ICT bet in the Norwegian Church. Where do you go today if you're going to try to figure out what's happening in your community? You go online. It is precisely what this ICT project is supposed to ensure for the Norwegian Church. Although we have had a liberation between the State and the Church, it is clear both through the foundation of the Norwegian Church and what all the parties in this Chamber have said, that we still have financial responsibility for the Norwegian Church. This year has shown us that we need a church that is close to the people. By giving this allocation you could have secured it in a much better way, but we're recording that the government parties won't set it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3519	There is no doubt that the government has led Norway to good results and has taken Norway in the right direction — including with this budget. That is why I also want four new years. The opposition is trying to give a different impression, but the results referred to throughout today have not come of their own accord. These are the results of conscious political choices and priorities. Where we have prioritised measures that ensure and strengthen well-being, and strengthen the working line, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have priority tax cuts, attacks on the Working Environment Act, weakening workers' rights and resisting the fight against social dumping. 30 measures for a more decent working life have been promoted and adopted by the government in this Chamber during the period. The opposition has voted against most, they have voted against the best, and they have voted against what has really worked. They have voted against the measures that have led Norwegian employment in the right direction. We have created 350 000 jobs while strengthening employees' rights. When the right last ruled, they created less than 30 000 jobs, and they weakened employees' rights. It's a matter of who's in charge of the country. We're going to continue on this course, we're going to take Norway further. We're going to get more of those who don't participate in the world of work today. We'll do more of what we see works, and the new thing we've introduced must be allowed to work. We are committed to ensuring flexibility in terms of the premise of ordinary people in the workplace, not just for employers, but so that families with children, people with very common jobs, who are struggling to get the cabal between home and home, job, children and leisure activities to get up, can have voluntary flexibility combined with security. These people do not ask for solutions on the right side, they do not ask for more temporary employment, more power on the employer's hands and a weakened professional movement. They do not ask for a lower level of sick pay and day-care arrangements or normised sick leave periods. A working life policy at the intersection of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left is bad news for most people. It's not a forward-looking, but a backward-looking policy. The left will cut the sick pay scheme by one month in this budget. In addition, they will investigate whether the sick will be paid 90 pst. - not 100 pst. - when they're sick. The right and left say that a government template should be introduced to determine when to return to work when you are ill. We believe that people should go back to work when they are healthy. I don't have a yellow poster with me on the speaker's chair – I really don't think the kind of behavior and the type of poster usage belongs in this room at all. I do not think it is in this Chamber to propose an unreasonably ageing budget, where a total of 3 billion is cut. kr in sick pay and disability benefit, while claiming that no one should feel it on the body – as the Advance Party does. This is not related. Our estimates for health and social security expenditure are calculated by the experts, based on reality. The batch of progress varies on top of it and wants additional savings, without being able to demonstrate the probability calculations. The dynamic effects, which they claim are responsible for this, are undocumented and they are inflated. The consequences would have to be cut, otherwise something else had to be taken down. That's not how you make a budget, and that's not how you run a country – by thinking about a number. The reason why we see this kind of creative budgeting is because someone has to take the bill when they cut taxes. It'll cost you. Then I actually have more respect for the Left. At least they say right out that they want to make the sickness pay system worse. They balance their tax cuts with visible cuts – without pretending to be anything else. With the magic budget of the Progress Party – and partly of the Right – and the obvious priorities of the Right and Left when it comes to norms of health messages, and the debate we know goes internally in the Right, about the karendays and the sick pay system, you don't have to be psychic to see that the sick pay system is threatened if the citizens get the chance and come to power. If a new labour and welfare policy were to be chiseled into the intersection of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, there is no doubt that we will see a rougher working life, worse welfare goods, and that the sick and the unemployed will have to take the bill for the tax cuts. Well-being costs, so does tax cuts. We give priority to the first – the opposition prioritises the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3542	The point of progress is that Norway should become an even better country to live in. That is what is the basis, and that is what is the basis of all our policies and actions. That is why we are politicians for the Progress Party. Of course, then, basic welfare services in municipalities are important. A lot of people get into trouble with the economy. That is why, in the long term, we want basic welfare services in the municipalities to be financed by the State through a government-driven government funding system, one of which identifies a need, and that triggers funding. So everyone has the right to have this funded regardless of whether a cage is in a poor or rich municipality. The municipalities will be responsible for these services, but funding will have to be state-owned. I record that some people have some problems understanding how such a system should work, but there is no hokus pokus at all. It is in the same way that one today finances resource-requiring services in the municipalities, and it is also the same way as a previously funded kindergarten – a very unbureaucratic and simple system. One noted the number of children who went to kindergarten in the different municipalities, and then received a government funding based on that. One also had differentiated additions depending on where this was in the country, and also based on how old the children were. But, of course, until we get an impact on this, we have to start from today's budgetary system and the challenges it presents. We've repeatedly heard the red-green parties claim that this budget leads to a strengthened community economy. The feedback I get from Kommune-Noreg does not indicate that. In fact, the debt in Municipality-Noreg is increasing dramatically, while the maintenance run is also increasing. KS states that the State budget for 2013 will not provide room for better services in municipalities, but it is enough to maintain today’s service provision. Although there is no doubt that municipalities have been given increased transfers and revenues, the municipalities have also been given more tasks – one has been given more inhabitants, one has been given an ageing population, and one has also received stricter demands and increased expectations. This makes the municipalities tire of the economy. In order to achieve a better community economy and services in municipalities, action is needed and not talk. That's why we've strengthened the municipal economy in a number of posts: 1.2 billion. kr for the care of the elderly, increased bet on resource-requiring services, ear-marked means of operation to the base ball of 200 million. kr, zero weight of municipalities, ear-tagged funds for municipal child protection, measures for drug addicts totaling 480 million. DK, non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens and ensuring that 1-year-olds were born after 1 September also have children’s cohabitation – almost 400 million in total. tap on these items. So we're improving the municipal economy directly and indirectly by almost 3.8 billion. kr. There is more money for all the municipalities of the country. Some people think that if local authorities get more money, they just spend more money, and it's important to keep up the money. We don't believe in such a policy. On the contrary, we think it's a bad idea. We want instead to facilitate competition. We want to facilitate welfare technology. Here the state - central authorities - is forced to take action. We also want a budgeting system or accounting system that shows the real situation better than the current situation. It applies both to the management of pension obligations and to the depreciation of deductions. If one had had a real budgeting and a real accounting system that shows the situation, the situation in Kommune-Noreg would look even worse than he does today. Then the truth would have appeared, and that's probably why the government doesn't want to do anything about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3564	At the very end of the gulf, in the municipality of Selje, we find the business of Fiskevgen AS. It provides equipment for fishing boats fishing by line. It's not a big business, but it still has half of the world market in its territory. Fishingwegn AS is a company that has chosen to move production home from abroad, because they have seen that in terms of competence and capacity for innovation, Norway has many advantages. Fishing ground AS is just one of many examples of small but important activities in the marine food industry, which help to create values and jobs along the coast. I think they represent some of the best in Norwegian business: the creators and the development of technologies based on practical experience, willingness and ability to find solutions in combination with research and the use of high skills. This fall I have had the pleasure of promoting Norwegian business in several of our most important exporting countries. It's been inspiring. Norwegian competence and Norwegian products are requested. The government will facilitate further growth to create greater values and more jobs. The government has therefore emphasised an active industrial policy. The most important policy for the export industry is economic policy. Where I live, on the coast, the rule of action is not just a word; it is something that many are concerned about. And high prices are too many of those who work in the export industries, not just cheap South Travel. Rather, it is a question of whether the company in which a worker works is doing business in the tough international competition, thus creating in the worst case uncertainty for one's own job. That is why I believe that all these people are entitled to know what policy the Right Party and the Advance Party intend to take in this area if they are going to be in government. It is certainly not possible to read about it by reading their alternative budget. Today, Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood in the world. In 2011, the export value of seafood amounted to NOK 53 billion. Every day, 33 million seafood meals are eaten worldwide, based on Norwegian seafood. Several experts have concluded in a recent report that the turnover value in the marine sector has the potential to sixfold, to 550 billion. kr towards 2050. The government's goal is to be the world's leading seamate. Norwegian seafood is of high quality, and we sell the seafood to high-quality consumers. The fact that we can document sustainable production and harvesting is a market advantage. In many of our important seafood markets, there are very difficult times of high budget deficits, high unemployment and low economic growth. With such a hindrance, it is all the more important that we conduct a responsible economic policy here at home. The government therefore follows the rule of action on the use of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy. This includes, among other things: three distinct advantages: it contributes to predictability, it provides room for action for future generations, and – not least – it contributes to safe jobs and value creation in export industries. For many years, the Workers' Party has been concerned about that in order to share, one must create. It's not an empty political rhetoric, but a fundamental guide to everything we do. It takes a long time and requires hard work to build a strong export-oriented industry, but unfortunately it takes a very short time to jeopardize it by acting irresponsiblely. That is why I am very pleased that the 2013 state budget proposal focuses on safe jobs, value creation and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3594	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3597	Initially, I must be allowed to say that I fully agree with the end of the post by the Council of State. I fully agree that economic policy is important. I fully agree that it is important to have a low price. I fully agree that it is important that we get these things for the Norwegian export industry. Therefore, the Progress Party sent its alternative state budget to the SSB, as calculated. It turned out that there was a lower interest rate, the exchange rate was unchanged, and the Progress Party remains well within the rule of action. It is very good that the undersigned and the Council of State agree on these points. But then one has the practical policy of the government. On Monday, yesterday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in Brussels. Once again, packaging was given – or questions about not being able to change the import protection related to cheese, because it could affect Norwegian industry later, in our export-oriented industry. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council see certain danger signs associated with Norwegian fishing exports as a result of this conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3606	It is nice to note that the Promoting Party’s Fisheries Policy spokesman also agrees that the rule of action is important. Hopefully, it'll keep someone on the coast safe. I have some doubts as to whether the representative Nesvik has the rest of the Progress Party on it. With regard to practical policies, it is about hard work every day – both from politicians and not least from business itself. The issue of ostetoll was thoroughly debated in this room – then enough was the representative Nesvik in the United Nations and was not allowed to participate in it – but what I have registered, both in the media and otherwise, is that the matter has disappeared. It was very topical in Norway. In any case, it is about actively pursuing policies towards the EU, and then there are many other things that matter than the protection of imports.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3617	If the State Council had followed – the Progress Party has just outlined the alternative rule of action, which is in line with the time between operation and investment. Had the government that is now sitting, did it, we could have come much further. What worries me is that the Council of State says it's gone from the media. Yes, then the Council of State is on a completely different planet than the undersigned. I was in Brussels on Monday. There was also Espen Barth Eide and met in the College of Ministers in the EU. They were then informed of how the EU looked at this matter. It's disturbing. In addition, the Council of State does not take into account the concerns of an overall fishing industry — that this could have consequences. I do not think there are any short-term consequences, but it could have consequences in the longer term when Norway is renegotiated by, among other things, its quotas. herring and mackerel. Doesn't the Council of State see this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3624	I was not in Brussels on Monday, but I was in France last Friday and met my French colleague. We have many common fields of interest, not least in terms of sustainable management, which is, in fact, a very strong sales argument for Norwegian seafood. But even more important than that: I was visiting the French fishing industry. I could have probably traveled to Poland and many other EU countries and found industry – Denmark, for example. – there is a large industry that is completely dependent on Norwegian raw material. I had a visit by Fisheries Commissioner Maria Damanaki last fall. She got a question from the Norwegian press about the fear of a possible criminal duty since the salmon price was so low. She rejected it in cash – the EU wants more Norwegian quality sea food, was her message. I believe that we and the European Union have so many common interests in this area that... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3632	You're going to see it ends with the state council completing its reasoning. The Norwegian side argues that we have the juice on our side, and that we are only taking advantage of the space for action provided by the WTO negotiations. If that – perhaps hypothetically for some, but not very hypothetical for me – is that also other trading partners believe that they have the juice and would like to take advantage of the space for action provided by the WTO agreement, could it be that the Council of State can see some dark clouds in the horizon in view of Norwegian maritime food exports, on which in her contribution she was so clearly dependent on accountability? I assume that responsibility is not only in financial policy and internal consumption, but also in terms of how to use protectionist tools on behalf of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3639	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to complete the reasoning. Yes, we have the juice on our side. What is being done with regard to the protection of imports of these agricultural products is in accordance with the EEA Agreement and it is WTO-compatible. So that's all right. At the same time, we see that, on the other hand, Member States of the EU, Sweden, for example, are using exactly the same instruments for importing raw materials. Round herring and herring fillets are free of customs duties – unfortunately, I don't have the exact figures in my head – but as soon as you put herring in the varnish, it becomes high customs duties. Therefore, the raw material goes to Sweden for treatment. That's the exact same thing with salmon. Salmon fillet and whole salmon have very low customs duties, apart from duty-free, but as soon as you add some salt and smoke it, it becomes high customs duties. It is, of course, because the Member States that have that industry are using exactly the same instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3646	During the budgetary hearing, Norway’s Fiskerlag came with a clear statement of concern to the government regarding grants for business measures such as guarantee tickets, lead grants for reception stations and self-afraid. Among other things, we have for many years there has been a trend towards the closure of more and more fishing industry holdings. The Government proposes the same amounts in this budget line for 2013 as for 2012, i.e. a reduction in appropriations. Does the State Council share the concern that the consequences of a reduction in the food subsidy will lead to the fact that it will be impossible to live in many places for fishermen who have smaller boats and that it will in turn lead to the loss of valuable fishing resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3653	The instruments we are talking about here are relatively small in the big context when you look at what Norwegian seafood exports. And we're going to be happy about that, because that means that Norwegian seafood for all practical purposes is non-subsidized. However, in this particular area, especially in relation to leadership grants, it may be important for periods of time to allow raw material to be moved between where the fishermen are and to the facilities. Then I have to admit that when it comes to next year, I guess I'm not as concerned about it. Next year we have the largest cod quota in the North. I think it's going to be cod enough for everyone, to use such an expression, and I don't think the need to drive and move the raw material is going to be as big as we might have seen in those years when it wasn't cod on the inside of the Lofoten, but just on the outside. I think – without being a fortune-teller – that there are fish available everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3660	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3663	The party of progress is very concerned about business and business conditions in order to succeed in Norway. I am not going to use the word ‘apologies’ against a Council of State in this Chamber, it may have unimaginable consequences, but at least I would say that it is sad to hear the Council of State, the Minister of Fisheries, who is so clearly trying to minimize the consequences of Norway increasing its import protection on cheese, a little on meat and also on whole and half slaughter. Although the Council of State is trying to devalue it, it is an overall fishing industry, through the regional association of the fisheries and aquaculture industry, with 500 holdings, which has expressed its concern. The EU Ambassador has in due course been visiting the Minister of Agriculture Trygve Slagsvold Vedum and expressed concern. State Councillor Barth Eide was told when he was in Brussels as late as yesterday. It is important that we provide a good framework. The Council of State itself stated that economic policy is very important. Yes, it is. That is why the Progress Party sent its alternative budget to the Statistical Central Bureau, otherwise a place where the Prime Minister himself worked in his own time, so there must be qualities there. They came to a conclusion: lower interest rates and stable exchange rates. This is important for the Norwegian export industry. Furthermore, when the government itself writes in its budget that changes related to import protection, which we talk so much about here, are a zero-propenty budget, I ask myself: why should you start so much trouble in business as a result of something that the government doesn't even believe in? It stands for me as completely meaningless. At least that's not long-term. In this regard, it is also worth noting what postdoctor Ivar Gaasland of the Institute of Economics at the University of Bergen says about the ostetoll. He says, ‘Although Norway is allowed to do so under the WTO Agreement, there is strong opposition among our trading partners in neighbouring countries. This may be reflected by changing the rates of duty in other industries important to Norway, such as fisheries.’ I think we should listen to these warnings. It would have been best if the government could turn around in this case and make sure that you did not have the uncertainty that we now have. There is at least one area where the government has a stable policy, and there is traffic across the Swedish border, which is increasing. It is clear that when this budget, with its charging policy, was presented, it was Swedish, perhaps, who cheered the most, and not necessarily Norwegian consumers, who could get a lower sample in the disks and higher prices. But the Swedes are going to experience new heights in their trade. It is possible that this is the way to try to help Europe's policies in the years to come, but at least it does not benefit Norwegian jobs or consumers. The Council of State, the Minister of Fisheries, is a person who travels a lot along the coast. We have a lot of good business along the coast. We, who are born and raised just along this hard coast, know how important it is for life and health that we have a rescue service that is always up and in place. For many, many years, we have put our loved one in the hands of the rescue services, using the offer they offer. Then it is disappointing to see that we have a government that does not actually follow up the need of the rescue company – once again. The last time you put some new and fresh funds in place, this time it looks worse. I hope, and I sincerely ask the Stortinget that the government parties in Stortinget turn around and make sure that the rescue company gets these 20 million. kr that they actually need to ensure coastal safety. It shouldn't be that it's the security of our loved ones who travel along the coast, this government should save on, but that's what it actually looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3683	This is going well in different countries of Norway, and the OECD track today is super-growth for Norway also in the near future. With the euro zone in recession, the OECD believes in several years of solid growth in the Norwegian economy. For Norway, a picture is taken of a continental economy with high consumption growth and continued good labour demand. According to the forecasts, this year's GDP growth will be 3.7 pst. It will – if it does – be the highest growth since 2007. Studies show that oil investment growth is likely to fall in 2013 and further slow down in 2014, but with low surplus capacity in some sectors and strong demand for housing, the same investment demand will nevertheless be quite strong. Both real wage growth and employment growth will contribute to further growth in total household income. You ask a company today what is their biggest challenge, you often get the answer that there is demand for labour. In other countries, Norway, the labour force is calling for labour. In Europe, labour is screaming for jobs. Much of the demand for labour will need to be met by further labour migration. Measures for serious work are therefore very important. This government has provided thirty measures and two action plans against social dumping to safeguard workers’ rights. The pressure on increased labour migration also exerts pressure on the demand for housing. The OECD warns against developments in Norwegian housing prices, which continue to rise from a record high level. Here we have to build more homes, and the Workers' Party is willing to take the job it is to take that responsibility. The contrast to the rest of Europe is great. The decline in the euro area economy continues at an alarming pace. Unemployment is high and attaches particularly to young people. A tight budget will be able to keep the activity down for a long time. The social unrest in Europe is worrying, and it hurts to see what the debt crisis is doing to people. Youth must live at home for a long time, schools cannot afford electricity or books – people are starving simply. It will take a long time to rebuild confidence in financial markets, put in place structural reforms and bring up the activity of economic operators. The fact that Norway got the best through the financial crisis and managed to keep employment up means that today we do not have the same reality as the rest of Europe. Our government put in place a number of different measures and strengthened the instrument, both Innovation Norway, SIVA, Export Credit Norway AS, GIEK, Investinor etc., and there has been not least a focus on simplification. Here in Norway, with this government, the Youth Guarantee will also be in place in the budget now — a clear message to young people in Norway that we want them to take education and get out of work. It gives security, freedom and opportunities to create values. The OECD believes that the European Central Bank should further cut the interest rate on governance in order to stimulate demand. In addition, structural reforms need to be in place, both in the countries borrowing money and in the countries lending money. The Labour Party will have a competitive business across the country. It requires an active industrial policy. An export-oriented business needs predictability and an instrument adapted to their challenges at all times. One of the main reasons we succeed in Norway is that people are at work. Through work and innovation, employees and employers make Norway laugh, and they should know that we are grateful for their efforts. It's together that we create the values that guarantee the well-being of future generations. The Norwegian model is the very bottom plank of our policy. We politicians must never forget the responsibility that politics has given us, because politics is about people – and just people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3700	I'm working on knowledge policy, and since a lot of people in this room are somewhat illiterate, I just want to underline one more point: the SSB has firmly stated – after an evaluation of our budget – that our budget provides security for the jobs of the mainland industry in Norway today, next year and in 2014. I also assume that the Workers' Party's budget creates a certain degree of security for the jobs during that period. As long as the oil policy is maintained, the revenues generated by the petroleum industry will flow into the state treasury and into large parts of Norwegian industry. This ensures high employment and high labour demand. In a 20-year perspective, it is different. I understand that the red-greens in an election year find it difficult to base that perspective, are most concerned with our budget, and must use a reverse cheese requirement principle and not provoke anyone, but not bet where you could bet. We all know that in the long term the Norwegian economy needs to get more momentum, that the mainland economy needs to become more efficient, that public service production needs to become more efficient – the Norwegian economy simply needs to become more knowledge-based. In order to ensure that today's jobs are safe 20 years ahead, and that we are able to create new profitable jobs, we need to focus on knowledge, we need to prioritise knowledge. This government doesn't. Economic turbulence in very many of our OECD trading partners gives us a historical space for action. Unfortunately, we have a government that responds with historical paralysis. Since 2006, the government’s draft budget did not contain a single increase in research budgets as a share of gross domestic product. Today, we are still spending a lower share of GDP on research than all Nordic countries and much less than the OECD average. When we have to find that there is no real growth in the research budgets of any department, it is particularly worrying that there is a real decline in the Ministry of Industry and Trade's research budget. The Progress Party's alternative state budget shows action, and we propose to strengthen key research areas – especially in technology and industrial research – with nearly 800 million. kr. Norway needs a government that shows action in the field of research. We know that one of the major challenges in Education Norway is that one of three students in high school does not complete in normal time. This applies to most boys, and it applies mainly in professional subjects. The drop-out is close to 50 pst. national and over 50 pst. in many counties. Most people who don't finish drop out of school because they don't get an apprenticeship. So there's a lack of apprenticeship places. Then we have been involved in alcohol taxes today, where the Progress Party has been boasted because we do not cut down on alcohol taxes, because high charges are supposed to cause people to drink less. Yeah, that's probably right. But then I wonder, when we lack several thousand apprenticeship places, why do we have tuition in apprenticeship places every day? Is it for people to set up fewer apprenticeships? In its budget, at least the Progress Party is once again showing action. We propose to remove the charge on apprenticeship places in order to ensure a better economy in the apprenticeship system and to ensure that more people are given apprenticeship opportunities and training opportunities. We also lack several thousand candidates in business. Despite the fact that we have imported record numbers of people with three to five years of higher education, we lack several thousand candidates in Norwegian business, especially in mathematics, science and technology and in health. That's why it's especially, when we know that the youth is out there and wants to study, that the government chooses to say that the number that was admitted to higher education in 2012 should only be continued. Higher education places should not be established in 2013. Despite the fact that many of the red-green population representatives have argued the opposite in today’s debate, it is not possible for the higher education institutions to raise a single additional student in 2013, compared to what was done in 2012. It's not powerful enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3717	The debate today clearly shows that we are facing a direction election for Norway next year. In the debate on taxes, the differences are evident. The red-green majority does not in any way want to prioritise large tax cuts to the richest by cutting taxes on wealth and inheritance. We will prioritize the community and spend the large amount of money on health care, school, kindergarten and other areas that make Norway a good country to live in – a country with high employment and low unemployment, where social disparities are small. This has not come about by itself, but is the result of wise political choices. Distribution policy is an important tool when a person wants to balance differences, including geographical differences. When I see what the Progress Party and the Right want with local economy and agricultural policy, I see that the geographical differences will increase sharply. When the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde of the Progress Party debated taxes with the representative Torgeir Micaelsen this summer, he said: the Progress Party is also making massive cuts in public spending, and we are not ashamed of it. We're doing big cuts in Norwegian bureaucracy, we're going to shut down the county, we're going to reduce the number of municipalities and reduce the transfers to agriculture. That is exactly what the Progress Party is doing in its budget. I don't think anyone in this room is defending unnecessary bureaucracy. But when a kutter 1 billion. kr to county councils, there may not be enough so-called useless bureaucrats to remove, so that most people don't notice the cut. The counties primarily run secondary schools and are responsible for road and regional development. A cut both in the framework transfers and in regional development funds will have some major consequences outside where people live and live in our long-term country. When the funds disappear from the county budgets, the budgets of secondary schools will have to be cut. It means cutting teaching positions and changing school structure. In my state, it's likely that the decentralised structure of high school is falling. It means more students from the age of 16, with the consequences it will have for too many, and that local communities lose an important resource in the development of social and work life. One of the smallest high schools in the North Trøndelag — which is my home country — is Meråker secondary school, which also has landlines for long-distance skiing and skiing. There goes, and has gone, many of our national sports heroes. With cuts in transfers to the county municipality, it will be one of the schools threatened with closure, because it is too expensive to operate compared to large secondary schools centrally. By cutting down the county council, cutting the population grant to the municipalities and making the corporation tax municipal – while at the same time providing less tax equalisation between tax-based and tax-impaired municipalities – the right parties also do not contribute to a municipality that Meråker should be able to take over and run the secondary school. This cannot be a policy to defend as a contribution to cutting red tape. It's cut in welfare and diversity, in my opinion. Another serious cut is in the funds for regional development. Here, right-handers over 1.5 billion. kr and the Advance Party, SEK 1.1 billion. kr. There will be considerable consequences for development and conversion in many industries and municipalities. It doesn't help much to add up to 150 million. kr to municipal food funds, as is done on the right, about large corner stone companies being laid down, and new activity is to be established to maintain jobs and housing in municipalities. There is a long-term and laborious work in which the county councils play a central role. In the eagerness to shut down the county and so-called cuts in public bureaucracy, one must not believe that the tasks of the regional level are missing and that no one notices it. The regional development tasks will be there and how they are carried out is crucial for the development of societies and jobs in a way that ensures employment and housing throughout the country. Innovation and migration are not bureaucracy. Large tax cuts such as the removal of property taxes of more than 15 billion. kr represents large cuts in welfare. It will primarily affect the weakest in society, and it will greatly increase geographical differences. We saw it clearly during the last right-wing government, and I fear that we will see it even more clearly if the Advance Party comes into government. What is produced as a relief for business – efficiency improvement and cut in unnecessary bureaucracy – will prove to be cut off in the welfare of people most and even better times for those who have the greatest assets in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3734	The draft budget of the Progress Party is a draft budget for less bureaucracy and more well-being. I have followed the arguments of the Chairman of the Financial Committee, Mr Micaelsen, and Prime Minister Stoltenberg's long-standing attempts to ridicule the Economic Policy of the Advance Party with strong tax relief. So the SSB has now gone through our alternative state budget and rejected these claims. That really means that the red-greens ridicule the competence of the SSB, which of course we're taking a great distance from. The Progress Party shall present an overall draft budget, which shall show its capacity for action, and shall provide security and freedom for the population. By reducing taxes and taxes, turnover will, of course, increase and give the same effect as the Rema 1000 owners experience, as also stated in the SSB report. By lowering the tax on income, or the progress of the tax system, more people want to work more, simply because they get to keep more of the income. This in turn means that the turnover of taxable income is increasing, and lower taxes result in more than one contribution. This therefore leads to more establishments and jobs. When the government and the Ministry of Finance attack us in terms of dynamic effects, why have they reduced the employer’s fee in some parts of the country? Of course, it's not to be nice, but because they think it creates more jobs. The Party’s tax reductions include reduced car charges, reduced petrol and diesel taxes, reduced document fees, reduced electricity tax and removal of inheritance tax. In addition, we promote a border trade package where we propose to reduce the fee on snuff, beer and wine and the sugar and chocolate fee. In the borderline regions in particular, this will lead to more jobs. Today the trade leakage to Sweden is well over 10 billion. kr. There are several reasons for this, but the level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco is one of the main causes of the trade leakage. Of course, it will not be better if the government introduces increased VAT on cheese and meat products and juice. This will help to aggravate the trade leakage to Sweden, and the Progress Party will of course oppose it. For those who had to rely on the dynamic effect of this, there would be an increased tax intake, because sales of snuff and alcohol would be more likely to transfer from Sweden to Norway, increased VAT input because people would trade in Norwegian shops, and higher tax input from those who would be employed in Norwegian shops. The party of progress doesn't do this to be the nicest in the class. We do it because it will give the population a much greater degree of freedom to spend their money on what they think is right, not according to what the red-green people mean to spend their money on. We do it to create security for the jobs. We act where the government talks. The Progress Party wants the population to have a greater degree of freedom to choose the car they think they need. That's why we're proposing 25 pst. reduction of the power charge on passenger cars. In addition, there is an environmentally friendly policy, because it will result in the replacement of the part of the car park that is most in need of renewal with cars with the latest available technology. The center party says so nicely in party speeches that they want to use the whole country. Well, so does the Progress Party. The difference between the Center Party and the Advance Party is that where the Center Party holds speeches, the Advance Party shows action. Shopping effort is to lower one of the world's highest fuel charging regimes. Shopping force is building roads without tolls that provide safety. That is why the Progress Party is lowering the fees on petrol and diesel. Then we invest in road construction and maintenance so that it notices. None of the parts want the government. They keep ripping out more of the drug that doesn't work and that makes people move out of the districts. One still sees that the government is concerned about the cost of setting up young people. I think that's strange, because someone knows that it's the government that's much to blame for it, through ever more stringent rules in the Law on Planning and Building, which has got the construction costs to shoot in the weather. Not enough with that, the so-called document fee is charged, a fee where home buyers have to take top loans at the most expensive interest rates to pay the state the money they so badly need. The draft budget of the Progress Party is a proposal in which one has faith in individuals and where one will, through tax and tax incentives, give them the opportunity to make their own, reasonable choices when they retain more of their income. It is contrary to the desire of the red-green government to control the population from cradle to grave by taking the choices the people themselves can make, for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3753	I am pleased to see that Mr Sanner is present in the Chamber. I saw that Solvik-Olsen was here. I wish he had been here, because through the President I would like to address me directly to the two. It's about the discussion about the rule of action. I believe that it is one of the really important discussions, which it is absolutely necessary that this debate be resolved. I tried, as the Stortinget noted, to get concrete answers to the Right's analysis of what Solvik-Olsen said in the change of lines with the Right's leader and parliamentary leader, Erna Solberg, about the rule of action. It didn't work out. There are, of course, questions about how this should be interpreted. Shall we pretend that we don't hear that right now won't comment on this? Shall we pretend that we don't hear that Sanner will never comment on it? And are we going to pretend that the Right is as much to trust in the rule of action as they've always been? I really believe the last, but I don't understand why they can't settle with the quasi-understanding that the Progress Party presents in terms of money use in Norway. I think it's nice that they don't. What's remarkable is that the Right leaves a very serious economic policy tradition, when they don't. The characteristics of our policies – the government’s policy – and the understanding of the rule of action – are, in reality, just as directed towards the Right. But it's quiet in the living room, no one's taking that fight. This debate is not over. At least Sanner hears directly what I'm saying. Now Solvik-Olsen has also come in. Then he can also comment on this later. I think the Norwegian Storing is entitled to clarify, especially from the Right, what is considered to be the characteristics of Solvik-Olsen's rule of action. It's absolutely central, it has to do with the economic credibility of the Right. Of course, it is crucial to what kind of economic policy is to be pursued if there is to be a majority that they want. The representative Solberg couldn't, would not or could not. Trues and others, of course, have the chance during the evening. The other thing that I really need to say -- that's said earlier in the debate, but I'm sitting and burning for it when I hear the debate, either in the office or here -- is that the right parties, without shying down, say they want to sell out the hydropower in different ways. Think about it! If the resource that has contributed to the construction of Norway as an industrial nation on the government’s hand, they stand here in Stortinget and say: It should be so dynamic to get private in this area. That's what Siv Jensen from the pulpit says. Then we know what it's all about. It's not about insulting the Norwegian Workers' Party by doing that – that's not what's going on – but it's about the fundamental, that's to deliver to private profit interests what's the nation's resources. Solvik-Olsen always has the ability to shake his head, whether he is standing on the platform, sitting in the hall or on television. I can tell the representative Solvik-Olsen through the president that it doesn't make any sense to me, because I can read, and I can hear what you're saying. Therefore, it is quite obvious that what you are doing is undermining the next generation, undermining the possibility of building society on the foundation of the community in a decisive way. Then you might as well say, when you want to conduct such a policy and the Right is also on the load. The last one surprises me a lot, but it tells me about the development among the right parties in Norway. It shows how crucial this debate is and how important it will be. That's right: it's a direction option.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3773	I have noticed that for a long time – and unfortunately it has been repeated here today – it has been claimed that the Progress Party has an irresponsible economic policy. If we get an impact on our proposals and priorities, that's not how bad it's going to be. A myth has also been developed for a long time that the Progress Party will use up the oil fund, which is a direct lie. In fact, the Progress Party will transfer an incredible amount of billions of dollars each year to the Oil Fund. But we also want to invest something in Norway and let people keep more of their own money. A third myth designed by red-green politicians is that the Progress Party has money for everything. In fact, every year we promote an alternative state budget where we make tough priorities, but priorities other than what the government does. I think it is a pity that some representatives can allow themselves to make such claims without being able to make them probable in any way. They can't or won't go into a real economic debate, but they only come up with what we call unsubstantiated claims, with almost school debate and rehearsed lines, probably made by the increasing number of PR advisors in the government. What makes it more special is that the representatives who make these claims, who dictate myths and stories, represent parties who sit in government, who cannot be said to conduct a responsible economic policy, which does not provide the country's citizens with the necessary security in everyday life. As far as I know, the Progress Party is the only party that has sent its alternative state budget to the Statistical Central Bureau, so that they can do their neutral calculations of it. No other parties are doing this. Even the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party did so when they were in opposition, as far as I know – or did they? If they did, it would be interesting to get feedback on it, because if they did, why were the results not published? When we're into accountability, what has a red-green government with a pure majority behind it here in the Storting for over seven years? Do we have a powerful government? The government was supposed to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. What's happened? There have been several poor people, despite the fact that oil revenues are flowing in as never before. What is the status of hospital cows? Have they become shorter? No, they're getting longer. What about the number of failures? Has it gotten fewer? Have more people come to work, or have more people been disabled? There's been more. What about the maintenance run in the road sector and the need for safe and better roads? Even the poor country of Albania has passed Norway in terms of motorway construction. What about the railway? Several reports show that there are major shortcomings, large maintenance kit delays and a high need for investment – a clear lack of action. The government would bet on public transport. What's going on? Yes, several train stations are being laid down, among others. several trainstations in populous areas, especially in my own county, as Martin Kolberg is probably aware. There have been fewer train departures. What about more goods on the railway, which it has been talked about? No, it's getting smaller and smaller, and more goods on the way. What about hospitals in Norway? Has the maintenance crew been updated there? No, here's a lot of maintenance and a lot of investment. Take, for example: The drama hospital. It is so bad that the roof lamp over the operating table fell on the operating table. It was only good luck that there was no operation when it happened. Most recently this fall, several operating rooms have had to be closed because it has been so critical. The hospital equipment is so old that it is not even possible to obtain spare parts. For example, you have had to search the Internet, on eBay and finn.no for spare parts, and make provisional solutions. There is a great need for investment in ICT. Only the fact that fax is still in use is tragic. It's irresponsible politics. As mentioned at the outset, the Progress Party has sent its alternative State budget to the SSB. According to the SSB, we are likely to experience an increase in GDP and employment, a reduction in inflation and unemployment, while the krone price remains unchanged. It's responsible policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3803	Here the factory in Porsgrund I think is a nice picture in Norway. A few decades ago, there were 6,000 to 7 000 people working there. That was the time when there were different working arrangements for civil servants and those who worked in the basement. It was a factory that worked about so that anyone in Porsground who was 15 to 16 years old and who went down and broke at the factory gate could get a summer job there. And then you could eventually get a firm and secure job. To put it a little bit simplified and a little bit idealized, it was in Here Island place for everyone. The challenge for Norway – which has been the best country in the world to live in since 2002, when the Right put in government, but that is not really the point here – is not to create wealth and well-being, because it is ours. The challenge for us is to further develop wealth and well-being, that is, to use the opportunities available as one of the richest countries in the world to secure and create opportunities for all. We're not like Here Island in the 1920s. At that time, there were installations that were to be built, capital was needed. You had to travel the facility. We're more like Here Island in the '2000s. Then the winds of change began to blow inwards even a medium-sized industrial city in Telemark. The violent forces of globalisation have struck inwards – including the safe workplaces in the island of Heresy. Then, as it is now, the people of Telemark and Pors Grund faced a choice. They could doubt everything the way it was. They could try to stand still or they could change. The thing you gradually understood in Telemark and in Porsground was that there was no alternative to stand still. It doesn't help you to go forward if everyone else runs forward. It does not help to boast of what was, if it is not equipped to meet what is to come. I think it's the government's great sin – not that everything goes bad, because in the world's richest country, not everything goes bad, but that the government thinks everything is going well, and that it's going to go well in the future too. In fact, it is sometimes difficult to hear the criticism of what is not good enough in Norway, about the sound of a government that keeps clapping to itself. It seems to me that the government is tired now. Its members lack ideas and solutions. I think that's one of the reasons why a lot of the red-green politicians on this platform are talking about Right Policy. It's also another very funny thing that has begun to happen to the red-green in the last two years, and it's that they've begun to become uncomfortable and flattened with their eyes and become nervous when they get completely simple, basic questions, like that.What are you going to do, then? What are their solutions to Norway’s challenges today? – Not what you did the previous seven years, but what are you going to get for the next four years, that is, what you're going to achieve in twelve years, which you couldn't do in eight years? There is something special about a government that has representatives who become uncomfortable and nervous when they are asked to do what all politicians should love to do, namely to talk about their own policies and their own solutions. It's as if you're tempted to say, "rest now, citizen." It's deserved. So change and gradual reform have always been a prerequisite for the Norwegian model. Some of the reasons Norway is a rich country today are precisely that Norway has changed in the pact over time. We have seen that when new challenges arise, new reforms are needed, not radical measures that throw away everything we have had, but gradual reforms, new ideas, better solutions. Let me go back to Here Island. I mentioned that a few decades ago – a little simplified of course – very many people could come to the factory port on the island of Here Island, knock on the door and then get a safe workplace for the rest of their lives. They did not need so much formal education — if they could make the four big ones, or were good in English or Norwegian, they were not necessarily so important. What happens to the 17-year-old who has dropped out of school today, and who comes to what is today an industrial park on the island and knocks on the door? The truth is, there's a high level of research in there. There are highly educated skilled workers with a letter and a long, long experience. There's no room for someone who's dropped out of school when he's 17, who only has his health and is willing to stand on, but has no formal competence. The chances are very great for him to knock on another door – at the Nav office. The chances are great that he will be one of the four social clients in Norway who are under 30 years of age. The right has called it the vicious circle. It is not a precise description of exactly what everything is like in Norway, but it is an attempt to outline what is the challenge of Norway, what is the shadow side of the world’s best country. Well, it starts with a school where social differences have been reinforced in the last seven years. The school fails its very basic task, the promise we gave to every six-year-old who was going to start school: we're going to make sure that it's your skills, abilities and facilities that get something to say, not what your parents have been doing. That promise is failing the Norwegian school today. It continues with high school dropouts, especially in the professional field and especially for students who have lost their theory. Many young people are looking for work, business or the market, as they sometimes call it, i.e. what gives people jobs, but discover that there is no room for them there either. Youth unemployment is high, and we haven't, after all, created enough jobs for young people to keep up with population growth. In the Nav system, many meet with measures that do not work, if they are so lucky to get an action. The government is almost passive, and it does not even know how long young people have to wait for action or how long they have to wait to go from one measure to another. In the Nav system, there is something called measures that all Nav employees know about, and that many people who use Nav get bitter experience – we don't even have numbers on it. When the Right says we should have the right and duty to the activity of the young 17-year-old who meets, the Government says no. They say they are for such an activity obligation, but they don't even know how many municipalities are using the opportunity they have today. There was something they started to count on in ours once after sitting in government for seven years. The vicious circle becomes a circle because it ends where it begins again, namely that the most hereditary in Norway is not a yacht or a heavy car or a mountain cabin or a fortune – it's alienation, poverty, social happiness and disability. So, of course, there are no simple solutions to break the vicious circle. There are some assumptions, for example: a business that is doing well, that it pays to create jobs, that creating jobs and keeping them in Norway is a positive thing. But I want to point out six concrete suggestions that the Right has promoted, that could have helped break the vicious circle. The first is about the teacher's bet. That's not all we politicians can do, but we can do something about the most important thing in school except for the parents' background, and that's the teacher. Then we have to spend the largest amount of money we have, and the most important tasks, namely ensuring continuing education for teachers. The second is a duty of activity for everyone to receive social assistance – not because it is a goal in itself that people should pick out garbage or carry it on, but because activity is a goal in itself. If you look at the way from the school bench to the outside world, it's all too often about passivity. The third is a massive effort to get disabled people into working life. That is the action we in the Right give the highest priority in our alternative budgets. We prioritise it on money, we prioritise it on work and education trips and extra follow-up of young people who are disabled, precisely because you should not be given up just because you have had a disability – to increase what is a downward trend under the red-green, with fewer people with disabilities in the workplace. Then it's also about a lower threshold into working life, that is to say, even if we're going to have some good basic rules that protect all employees, it has to be that it's easy for an employer to hire someone who comes to ask for a job. If we can make working life a little bit more flexible, more people could also get a job. Point five is that it must pay to work, completely consistent. It is a policy that the Workers' Party has previously agreed to, but that they have not followed up with the government. All of this is a policy to lift people out of the outside world, but at the same time, as politicians, we have to be humble and say that we are not going to be able to lift everyone out right away. We can't get rid of poverty with a pen stroke. Then it is particularly important that those who stay outside, especially children of those who are poor, are not hit. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, the effort specifically targeted at poor children doubles. Just because being outside shouldn't be a punishment for children of those who are there. I want to end with a quote from Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. He said in 2000: ‘Some of the least impressive moments of social democracy are just about when we couldn’t get to grips with the changes in society in time.’ I think we're in such a situation, even now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3858	In its alternative budget, both the Right, the Progress Party and the Left go to various attacks on the sick pay and the daily allowance. The advance party cut off the sick payroll scheme by $1.6 billion. and the daily allowance of 500 million. kr. The left will introduce two new waiting days on the agenda and save 700 million. kr by cutting the sick pay period by one month. In addition, right cut and left cut 525 million. on the sick pay scheme by introducing standard sick leave periods – the money they will spend to finance tax cuts for the richest. What kind of changes would the voters expect in the sick pay and early retirement scheme if, after the election, we had a government where the Right, the Advance Party and the Left were involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3865	I thank the representative for the question, although she really answers that question. I cannot answer for the policies of the Progress Party and the Left, but the representative is now saying what is in the Right Alternative State Budget. It is then twelve months' sick pay, as today, and 100 pst. sick pay from the first day, as today. Then we've done one thing that breaks with what we're saying about having new ideas and better solutions. After all, we have stolen an idea from Jens Stoltenberg, who launched the idea of normized health care messages in 2009. The point is that in my home state of Telemark you will receive 52 days of medical treatment if you destroy a shoulder. In Westfold, you get 101 days. That means we're going to have an expert group that sets down some standards for the diseases where it fits. But, and this is important to point out, it's also so that if your doctor thinks you should have been sick longer, of course there should be a chance of that. Reasons shall only be given in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3870	SV knows that families with one dependant have two and a half times as high a risk of living in a difficult economy as there are two dependants. Therefore, SV is engaged in good arrangements for the sole caregivers. The transitional benefit has been redeployed and after one year the person receiving the scheme is required to be in qualification or other activity so that one can get into work. That is what can break the poverty of these families. It was obviously also the representative’s concern – to break evil circles, especially for children. Why, then, will the Right with one pen stroke make several thousand more children poor by removing the ability of their parents today to acquire skills of two years, which will enable them to get work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3875	I think the easiest approach is to say that this is the same reason that the red-greens have when they cut the cash support for two-year-olds. FAFO, which is the trade union research institute of the trade union movement, has said clearly that if a cutter increases the cash support for two-year-olds and nothing else happens, child poverty increases. Why do the red-green ones do that? Well, because they think it prevents people from getting into work. It's the exact same reason that the Right has when we reduce the transition benefit from three to one year. The assumption is that savings can't go out of the budget. It has to be used mainly for measures to get more people back to work. We have also said that we should have exceptions, for example. if you are under education. Then you will be allowed to keep the benefit for three years. And we've said that you should get an exception if you have a particularly difficult situation, for example. at home with the children. The point here is that the reduction of poverty is going to get people into work, not by having them on a passivating benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3880	First I'd like to praise the Red Isaac for often thinking sail. The right ideological spirit of thought is Civita and its leader, Kristin Clemet. In E24 on 7 November this year, Kristin Clemet stated that she wants Norway to have Europe's most liberal rules on labour immigration. She suggested that: ‘Norway should consider the Swedish model, where the State cannot refuse work permits to people outside the EEA area who have obtained a job in Norway.’ And on the other hand, ‘This will give us the most liberal system in Europe and the OECD. In the future, we will need more people in work, and this will facilitate access to labour, while at the same time giving immigrants a simple and legal way to get to Norway.’ In the light of what Red Isaac said, namely, that poverty and exclusion are the most hereditary, my question is: will such a policy as Kristin Clemet here foreshadow, make it easier or more difficult to overcome what you mentioned here in your main post?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3897	I must also thank the representative Lundtigen for thinking for myself, perhaps a bit well, according to some in the red-green coalition. But I guess they live well with that. I disagree with Kristin Clemet about it. Labour immigration has many advantages. The big advantage is that in a rich country such as Norway, where we need labour, we get migrant workers into the labour market, we don't get a pay level and a cost level that shoots in the weather. At the same time, the other side of the case is obvious – it is often so that not everything is black and white – that among the 300,000 jobs created now under the red-green government, as a boaster of, but which is otherwise less than the population increase would suggest, one sees that very many of them have gone to work immigrants. And that also means that the other side of the case is that we're going to create a lot of jobs for example. to obtain the more marginal groups being excluded. It is a dilemma to live with, so I think we should keep the EEA Agreement – the good aspects of labour immigration – but I do not believe in any free labour immigration from outside the EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3908	It must be a delight for people who are concerned with the frame of criticism of Norwegian social democrats, to hear the Red Isaacs first suggest that some of us do not have our own ideas to then use most of the speaking time – except for a few minutes in the end – to come up with criticism of the government parties. I shall therefore speak to him. Let me give the Red Isaac two examples of what we're going to do in the next four years. We are going to build a school that is more practical – towards the boys – for example. in secondary school, which is struggling with the theory. But I don't understand how this is to be solved to a greater extent by opening up to a large-scale opening of new, private schools and a new private school law – an old idea that Right now recycles? We're going to build on the best in Norwegian health care and develop a world-class healthcare system. How is this achieved by opening up the right of establishment to private individuals in the Norwegian health market? It's an old idea that is now recycled in new Christmas paper, from the Red Isaac side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3920	Once again, I must resort to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg – at the annual meeting in Østfold Labour Party in 2000. And he goes on to say, «We were against private kindergartens. Today, the majority of kindergartens are private, and we see them as an important part of the welfare offer.’ I also believe that with the huge increase that we are going to need in healthcare in Norway, one can of course choose the red-green road, and that is to rationalise health services so that health cows increase. It is quite undisputed that there are more in health queues today than it was in 2005, when we crashed. When we had government power, the health cows went down. Now the red-greens have had government power for seven years, and the health cows are going up. Then I choose the pragmatic path that provides more people with treatment, and that's to say: Yes, if there's no capacity in a private hospital, then let's use it for a lot, instead of insisting that people are in a queue – which is public – and in addition get sick pay from the public, which is twice the cost to the public, instead of spending the money on making them healthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3932	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3935	Laws and government budgets are the main governance tools for Norway. The priorities give answers to that. The central question is: what do we want with Norway? The elected Parliament is our top democratic authority. We are responsible to people in elections. The Norwegian people are privileged, cf. people within the European Union. There are more and more abductions through large demonstrations in the streets, with violence and atrocities, because one loses more and more faith in the democratic forums. Trust is confusing. It's scary. In Norway, the red-green electoral basis is the highest level of safety for Norway to be led and managed in the direction of Cohesion-Norway and not Market-Norway. It's my and the Center Party's clear and experienced conviction. Norwegian society is like any living organism changing. Now, the Norwegian society is changing rapidly as a result of free labour immigration from the whole EEA territory and extremely low capital prices. It pays to speculate in the dwelling, then for so long. Furthermore, there is very high profitability in the harvesting of our oil and gas resources through a liberal concession policy, and very favourable tax rules for the industry provide historically high investments. The sum of these is a stronger and stronger division of economic, social and geographical areas. This challenges the Norwegian model in its fundamentals – the Norwegian model with a temperament and a conciliatory relationship between people, industries and regions. Right-wing policy is presented today as a nice puzzle. But the Right Tradition and Program are Difference Norway. The red-green government has implemented large welfare improvements in kindergarten and health and has achieved extremely high real wage growth for average beneficiaries in Norway in the period 2000–2013: a total of 43 pst. real wages and salaries. Sweden has a corresponding 22 pst. and the 15 EU internal countries, 8 p.m. The challenges of the future require new solutions, and the red-green government has major challenges in 2013 to ensure a level playing field and maintain trust between peoples, while strengthening – not weakening – the competitiveness of the rest of the world and improving the long-term sustainability of the management of our renewable natural resources. This is to the degrees demanding in a time of plenty of money. There should be a good return to good times, and a forward-looking leadership is needed to respond to what we want with Norway in order to create security – security for young people, security for the population. In my view, therefore, the focus of economic and labour policy needs to be increased. Switching business to natural resource management that provides long, renewable value chains with well-paid products is a good example – a good symbol – of what we are facing. In concrete terms, this could be the processing of wood — from paper industry to biochemistry. In order to realise it at a time when, to those degrees, it is demanding and difficult — and with a frightening development — powerful economic instruments are needed. We are currently using CO2 taxes on the oil chemical industry, and the CO2 taxes we need to use to stimulate future biochemistry: an outstanding example of how to implement tax exchange. Furthermore, we must use state investment capital in conjunction with patient private owners who will build future industrial enterprises. There are concrete challenges facing this government in providing practical, concrete content to climate policy, employment policy, business policy and rural policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e3960	The UN's Millennium Goal on halving the proportion of people living in extreme poverty has been achieved. The proportion of poor falls in all regions — also in sub-Saharan Africa, where the proportion of poor is highest. Among the ten fastest growing economies in the last decade are seven in Africa. Countries without oil or other central resources also experience growth. It inspires to contribute even more. Norwegian aid amounts to 1 pst. of GNI. The allocation of vaccines is increasing. Norway is among the largest contributors to the GAVI, the global vaccine alliance. Children are being vaccinated against childhood diseases that have taken millions of lives. It's unique. More than 20 million Europeans lack work. A whole generation of Europeans are at risk of losing opportunities, dreams and hope. In the cold water there are turmoil, protests and desperation. Economic unrest in Europe requires safe home governance. There is good reason to act in solidarity with the unemployed in Europe. Norway has had good assumptions. We have high oil revenues, plenty of natural resources and a favourable trading relationship with cheap imports, and rising export prices. However, Norway has also done much right. The rule of action is a stepping-up plan to increase the use of oil money predictable within a financially responsible framework. The overall level of taxation is stable. The EEA Agreement provides for security, predictability and non-discrimination for a troubled period. Mutual trust, low transaction costs and transparency are good values that have come about through good political governance. The policy results after seven years of majority rule are fantastic. Norway has come through the financial crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment. The use of oil revenues is sustainable over time. Economic growth is good. In the budget adopted tonight, more good measures are being taken for health, the elderly, preparedness, research, road and climate. Last year the government gave an overall review of the car charges. As the Labour Party's tax policy spokesman, I am pleased that the car charges have been reduced, and that more emphasis is placed on climate and environmental considerations. Car charges are reduced overall by a reduction in the re-registration fee for the second consecutive year. The one-off charge is modified to focus more on CO2 and NOx emissions and less on engine power. Cars that have both low climate emissions and low local pollution are thus best suited. The weighting of CO2 in the one-off charge is a success story. Over the last six years, CO2 emissions from new cars have been reduced by a quarter. The charging policy has contributed to this. We are reducing customs duties on industrial products. Norway is among the countries with the lowest customs duties on industrial products. There is only a customs duty on clothes and some finished textile articles such as towels, dolls and curtains. Most of these commodities are produced in developing countries. Now we are reducing the highest rates of customs duty for textiles and harmonising the rates of duty for several types of clothing. It helps to improve market access for poor countries. The Customs Reference System for developing countries is also improving. Many more middle-income countries are freed from customs duties for all industrial products. It can contribute to increased imports for the countries concerned. Increased income disparities make it difficult to implement demanding social reforms that are needed in Europe to reduce deficits and resolve the debt crisis. Fair distribution, which gives all income groups their share of the growth, gives confidence. Our policies are for ordinary men and women with normal jobs and income. Increasing the tax rate back to 2004 levels has given over 80 billion. to health, road, research, police and other tasks. But the tax system has also become more fair. Twelve years ago, the richest paid less taxes than many others. After four years of bourgeois government, developments had deteriorated. Today, the tax system is the way it should be – the more you serve, the more you contribute. Changes in taxes on wealth have contributed to this. Half a million fewer people pay taxes on wealth, but those with the most wealth pay more. We who want a society of small differences need to remind ourselves of what has been done right. We have to take care of it and build it further. Then everyone has to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4008	Let me first point out half a year back to the revised national budget. I think it is alarming that the sitting government with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party cuts daily for the unemployed with over 1 billion. SEK, sick pay cuts of more than SEK 2,3 billion. kr – and this is done in the middle of the year. To make the representative Trettebergstien's words to me, words she used in the newspaper this Friday: ‘With these cuts it will clearly be difficult to be ill in Norway.’ But it does not stop there, in the changes to the 2013 state budget, which has recently been put forward, the government continues cuttism and kutter in the misappropriation by 512 million. kr, further in daily allowance for the unemployed with 504 million. NOK – a total of SEK 1.5 billion. kr in six months. It must be hard to be unemployed with the sitting government. Everyone understands that type of rhetoric is both ‘dirty’, wrong and dishonest. But we have heard that kind of rhetoric in articles from the red-green representatives today. The Minister of Finance, as I see it as a wise, sensible and sensible person, must be horrified by the lack of budgetary understanding shown by his own representatives, who use the kind of rhetoric of this pulpit. Politicians who argue this way testify to politicians who do not have future visions, visions of how society will be governed in the future. The Progress Party has visions and ambitious dreams for the future for people. We want more in work, less in social security. We record that it was also a political objective and a vision for former Minister of Labour Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. But if you're going to succeed, you're going to have to act. Action needs to be taken to show that there is a real desire to be taken in a direction that can help more people with reduced working capacity to exploit their working capacity for the benefit of themselves and society. If you do that, you will spend less money on payments for disability benefit – because there will be fewer unsatisfied benefits. The Progress Party conducts such policies in its alternative state budget. The party of progress is dedicated to realizing the dreams of people. That is why we want a close, committed follow-up programme for those with reduced working capacity, in order to give them the opportunity to participate in the labour market. The opposite would be, as many people experience today, and as I think is incredibly stigmatizing, when you say, no, we put you on a permanent 100 pst. disability benefit, even if you have a reduced working capacity and might be able to participate in the working life 50 pst. – because the welfare country does not want to prioritize it. It's stigmatizing. Such a welfare state will not have the Progress Party. That's why we give priority to strengthening what works. I'm recording that the representative says the exact same thing, that we're going to do more of what works. The representative Botten, I noticed, said that in Norway they are screaming for labour. Yes, if that's the situation, why is there 37 000 fewer disabled people in Norwegian working today than it was two years ago? If that's the situation, why is the number of new accidents increasing from year to year, if you want to do more of what works? The progress party wants to do more of what works. We want to give priority to action sites, 7 300 more action sites. We see that what is happening in Westfold is cutting the waiting time between the measures – less bureaucracy, closer follow-up – working and getting people back to work. We want to prioritise more of that. We in the Progress Party want more flexible wage subsidies, because we know that it will work and get more into the labour market. And the Progress Party wants an increased commitment to job organisation, so that those with reduced working capacity can participate in the labour market. In this way, the estimates of social security payments are reduced, and I think the Minister of Finance will agree with me very much. I think it's a pity with the rhetoric that's been used. The Progress Party builds its policy on Einar Gerhardsen's old slogan: Do your duty, demand your right. I record that the sitting representatives believe that it is a policy of a posterity, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4032	For seven years, the government has been working for work and well-being, for everyone to join, and for fair distribution. With this government there have been fewer differences, there have been more than 330,000 new jobs, in hospitals there are 1.7 million more treated in 2012 than in 2005, and more than ever. The budget for 2013 continues this work, because this is what it is about: work and well-being. We guarantee workers their dishes, we provide good health services for everyone and a good public school, and we provide new jobs. Our trading partners in the euro area are struggling with low economic growth and high unemployment. The activity in the euro area has fallen in the last year and remains lower than before the launch of the financial crisis in 2008. The situation in the Norwegian economy is in stark contrast to this. The activity of the mainland economy has increased since the autumn of 2009 and is clearly right now than before the financial crisis. Growth in the Norwegian economy has increased in the first half of this year, and unemployment has decreased. When we see it in this context, it's safe to live in Norway. It is not for nothing that Norway was also in the best country in the world to live in, and that Norway was in the second best country in Europe to operate. That's when I don't realize that we have an opposition here in the country that wants to take Norway in a completely different direction. Because that's what they want, it says both the leader of the Right Party and the leader of the Advance Party – and they want to reign together. With a government made up of the Right Party and the Progress Party, Norway can develop into a different society with more market governance and greater differences, with tax cuts for the richest and less money for well-being. A civil government with the Progress Party will be an experiment with our economy, with our workplaces and with our well-being. This is not a time for experiment. While we will improve, the Right and Advance Party will change Norway. Therefore, the 2013 downgrading option will be a direction option. One thing the opposition has agreed on is tax cuts. The taxes on wealth must be abolished. This will result in a return to being a null valuer in Norway. Now I have just read that Erna Solberg says that she will find a tax for the richest – but after seven years in opposition, the Right has not been able to figure out how to do it. The taxes on wealth have a distribution effect that makes everyone pay according to their ability. If we look at the effect of the Right's tax proposal, most people will get tax cuts at about a hundred times a month, while those with incomes of over three million. NOK 64 000 in tax cuts per year – about 40 times as much. Our budget is a budget for work for everyone and for well-being. We continue with an active industrial policy, we invest in good care, and we invest in transport. I'm particularly busy with railway – this is because railways in densely built strips both provide environmental benefits and can transport large amounts of people. Then it's good that the railway budget is at 14.5 billion. kr, an increase of 14.6 pst. Within it, Oslo–Ski is worth 827 million. kr for 2013, a major and important investment for Norway’s main railway project. We work for the intercity triangle, and in a new national transport plan, we will also present the plans for it. It was also what I answered that day all the spokesmen from the intercity municipalities were here on the Stortinget and demanded that the intercity triangle be ready until 2023, while the Right and Ingerd Schou were tall and dark and said that it could promise the Right. On Friday we could read that Erna Solberg said that it was probably 2030 that was realistic. There's a little bit of a difference between 2023 and 2030. What is absolutely certain is that the red-green government can continue to invest in the railways because we give priority to work, well-being and infrastructure over tax cuts to those who already have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4051	The Progress Party wants a strict but fair immigration and integration policy. The Progress Party also wants an open and evidence-based immigration and integration policy. It is a fact that many of those who come to Norway to seek asylum come with fake identity papers or without papers at all. Very many of these are also very little cooperative and little helpful in helping to clarify their own identity. This is a major challenge for the foreign administration, which must use considerable resources to find out who these people are. Many of those who come to Norway to seek asylum have a real need for protection, and of course they will have their applications processed and granted if the requirements for stay in Norway are met. There are also many who do not have any protection needs, but who come to the country because there is so much better here than where they come from. Still others come because they flee from reprisals as a result of crime. Often it is those who do not have protection needs, who also come with false papers or without papers. It's actually a criminal offence to bring in a false passport. When this is revealed, he should immediately be sent out of the country and not be allowed to apply for asylum or to have the application processed, as may be the case today. In an alternative state budget, the Progress Party proposes a budget of 150 million. for the implementation of a system of closed asylum recipients, asylum recipients organised in such a way as to ensure the best possible security of the residents and the staff of the recipient of the asylum. At the same time, the country's right to control who enters the country in order to seek asylum is respected. By means of closed reception, people seeking asylum in Norway can be better prevented from moving freely around society without knowing the background of these people. It is to ensure the safety of the inhabitants and to provide security. With shorter treatment periods for asylum applications and rapid return on rejection, the burden of sitting in reception is not great. It also avoids people disappearing from reception and remaining illegal in Norway. You can only guess what these people are doing when they do not have a legal stay and therefore do not work. The Progress Party has proposed to allocate 50 million. extra to return work against asylum seekers who have been refused their applications. Return work has its challenges in many ways, and the capacity and resources for deployment are one of them. It is worrying that in 2004, with only half of the force in the Foreign Office of the Police, more than today were transported out. With increased resources, the Progress Party will contribute to the return of those who are not to be in Norway as soon as possible. Rapid transport and good return agreements are essential for the credibility of the asylum institution. Deals in line with the one we have with Somalia can hardly be said to be good. As far as I am aware, no one is currently returned to Somalia after the agreement was concluded. It is important to address those who break the conditions of stay in Norway. If you have stayed because you are persecuted in your home country and need protection, you cannot go back on vacation or send your children to school in that country. We know this is happening, but there are few or no consequences, either because you don't notice it because many have double citizenship and have two passports, or because you don't want to discover it and look through your fingers with this problem. Both parts are unacceptable. Violation of the conditions of stay shall result in the resettlement of the residence permit and repatriation. That's 50 million. kr extra good with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4068	In 1998, Niklas died Luhmann. It was a very well-known German philosopher. One of his great teachings was that we humans did not have the ability to understand each other. We lived more parallel lives. It was completely impossible to understand what the other thought and thought, and I see a lot of the debate here today pointing out that Niklas Luhmann was in many ways right in his theories. Here I come with my sense of reality and my image of reality. It looks something like this: Norway is centralised. Societal development in modern societies, in capitalist economies, leads almost as an inherent force to concentrations of both power and activity. We see this clearly in Norway today. We have a population growth and an urbanization that really creates great challenges for us – a million more Northers in 2030. Just since the millennial change, the population in our cities has increased by half a million or maybe 50,000 a year. It was just in the cities that this people's growth came. The paradox is then that these cities are struggling with great challenges related to just the great growth of the people, which in many ways is very positive, collectively, for our country. So far, this has become too much a city debate. It is a necessary urban debate, but the red-green government and the SV believe that we need to view this much more as an overall debate and to a greater extent try to distribute some of this growth across the entire inhabited Norway. In order to achieve this, it is important for the red-green government and us in the UK to state that counter-current policies are needed here, both in domestic policy and in foreign policy, among others. in relation to the EEA and WTO debates, for the market alone produces differences and inequalities between people and between districts/regions. Therefore, blue-blue policy – in its love for market solutions in most areas of life – will always come out with a poor district profile. The government is doing a lot, e.g. by investing in capital for industrial development — strengthening industrial development in various ways, including: with these nationwide seed funds, which are very important in this context. Our infrastructure effort is very important – everything from roads to broadband and not least to collective action, which I very much believe, that we are not just thinking about railway, but also bus and not least a combination of bus and taxi. This is very important. We also distinguish ourselves from the blue-blue by being very concerned that education is going to happen all over the country and to the whole country. There still has to be a decentralised structure of both higher education and research, and we have to make it even more clear that, regardless of where you live in the country, there is going to be equal access to education throughout your life. Now what does the opposition do? In general, the opposition is withdrawing and giving much less attention to this policy area, called district policy and regional development. A very visible sign of this is this dramatic reduction that the Right is making in terms of investing in agriculture, which the Advance Party is doing to an even greater extent. After all, the Right eliminates the whole regional development grant to the county councils, and they greatly reduce the framework grant of the county councils. Just this regional development grant to the county councils was such an important part, and in many ways it is what we call regional development policy in Norway. So there's a drag in this. I heard that the representative Gunnar Gundersen earlier today said that no one cares about this. I have a completely different reality of this, which I have not least got by talking to right-wing rapporteurs and right-wing politicians. That's how I could keep drawing up more examples, for example. what is now happening in the privatisation of kindergartens, and which are also gradually in the proposed changes in both the Right Party and the Advance Party in the field of school. Right here, there's going to be a privatisation, which will initially allow for the emergence of even more 'childish barons', and eventually we can imagine'school barons', which also bring power and money inwards to our central cities. I am also surprised – to conclude – that the right-wing parties are so little willing to carry out a critical review of the EEA Agreement. Call the new agency what you want for me, only one takes a critical review of the parts of the agreement that are involved in weakening our ability to pursue an active district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4085	After a relatively long day and the financial debate is approaching the end – hopefully in a few hours – I must be allowed to state that the divisions in Norwegian policy have become clearer after such a day. It is not because one has necessarily received clearer answers from the opposition on what one thinks about important and vital questions, but primarily because, unlike what Red Isaac had in mind in his statement, in the budget that is now under consideration, and to the extent that also in his posts during the day, a clear direction has been given for what one wants to do in the future. Today, the choice of asking questions of very central sizes in Norwegian economic policies that are of great importance both for distribution and for general well-being — whether one can use such an expression — does not mean that one has left important scandals or left important visions for both social democracy and the red-green parties. There are three important issues that have been raised, both in the line changes and in the posts, which have not been answered by the opposition – at least from my point of view. First of all, it's the question of the rule of action, which is about a decent and sensible use of the means we're so lucky to have available, and which is the bottom line of welfare building, not just today, but in the years to come. It is with some wonder that I have recorded in the debate that there is uncertainty about this from the opposition. The second is the question of what we are doing with one of the most important distribution mechanisms we have, namely the tax policy and the type of tax that might be most unfortunate in terms of the issue of distribution, namely the wealth tax. There has not been any clearer on the part of the opposition, either by reading the budgetary options or by hearing the statements, what will become a reality in a possible civil government policy on these issues, and not at all if you are calling for and wanting to get answers to what would then be the options to prevent us from moving into a tax policy that brings forward more zero-taxors in Norway. The third element, which I believe also has a very important distributive effect in itself, is the question of something of the most basic in our welfare – how we have managed our natural resources, and how the opposition now wants to relate to as important fundamentals as this is actually in Norwegian society, who should own, among others. Norwegian hydropower. That there is confusion about these questions should disturb someone. That doesn't mean that the red-greens don't have policies in these areas – I kept saying the opposite. When you discuss the wealth tax, it's just the red-greens' opinion that maybe this is one of the most important things to prevent people from becoming more different. And when you erase the property tax, you see that it's a huge deal for those who have the largest assets, that's for those who have net assets of over 100 million. kr, shall have a tax relief of more than 3 million. kr, and that those who don't own any things, don't get any things. For us, this is a kind of policy that creates greater differences. I would also like to mention at the bottom of the post the cuts contained in the opposition's proposal, and in particular in the proposal of the Progress Party, which have devices for the primary industries – up to 7 billion. kr on the transfer of the agricultural contract. What does that mean – not just in relation to the distribution of economics, but in relation to how we organize our society, and where we live? What does it mean to go into such a policy? What does that mean in terms of urbanization? What does that mean in terms of social pressures? I believe that these are crucial questions – not because we're going to be as similar as possible when the tax lists come, and that we're going to have as much equal income as possible when we start comparing numbers, but because this is perhaps one of the steps in Norway that has done the most to prevent social suffering, whether it's health problems, issues of social tension, crime or other things that we try to fix every day. This is where I see that the red-greens have a clear ambition, and that the answers from the opposition just become more and more unclear. It worries me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4102	We are discussing budgets and details and mechanisms, and that is necessary, and we also find political differences, but sometimes it may be worth raising our eyes even a little higher. Last week I was a host to my Portuguese colleague who was visiting Oslo, and then we got an illustration of challenges that are alien to us. He's now in a year where he's going to cut the health budget by 7 pst. He cut with 3 pst. last year and expected it to be 4-5 pst. Next year. It might be interesting to include this when we reach files on who can put on the most in the different areas. The second – when we raise our eyes – is to see that we like to discuss the margins of treatment while what we really are facing is a wave, or an epidemic, of so-called lifestyle diseases, non-infectious diseases, the slow diseases – heart and masculinity, diabetes, some cancers, lung diseases like COLS, to mention something – and the challenges of mental health problems, which take a lot of the sick messages in the workplace. These are challenges we're going to meet in the future, and we shouldn't be repairing them. We have to try to prevent, and it's going to require great capacity for innovation in our society. Therefore, prevention and public health are of great importance. The core of the cooperation reform is that we prevent better. We are also discussing the Interaction Reform related to the margins in the relationship between municipal and specialist health services. Inclusion or not in this funding arrangement is important, but we should not forget that the core of that reform is to enable us to prevent and treat earlier where people live. Not least, I think it's important in areas like mental illness and addiction, what we have to deal with close to work and where we live. I feel that here we have to go to the backbone of the primary health service, the permanent doctors, and mobilize the municipalities. We're on our way, but some new big stages are also ahead of us here. The government plans to present a spring public health report across sectors — school, transport, environment, culture and volunteers. We're in the process of recording conferences all around the country, and it's going to be an exciting message, I hope. Then we are also betting widely on our hospitals. I've often said that the goal is to prevent people from entering hospitals through good public health and good prevention, but if you get there from happy circumstances in some context, or if you're sick in others, we're going to have a world-class treatment. We are strengthening treatment capacity, waiting times are falling, we are raising quality and patient safety, and there is a big deal about this and about ICT now the next few days. Good interaction and use of ICT is essential. The challenges we are now hearing, which relate to waiting times, registration, etc., are largely due to patient administrative challenges. Systems are complicated, reports are many, and reporting methods are too poor. This is why ICT is so important. Then last week we had a good debate on the initiative of the representative, Höie, on health policy and hospital policy. It was clarifying, and it showed in many ways an interesting dividing line between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand, I perceived, and at least the government parties on the other. The others, on the civil side, did not take the floor in that debate. Let me just say two things about it. The one challenge I have for the Right and Advance Party is: Can you clarify what you want with the hospital regions in Norway before the elections? For this, a picture is drawn where you want to put down the regional organisation and replace it with a central organisation – there are very little details for people working at this level. It's important that we maintain the ability to see hospitals in the context, 95 pst. of a patient course is in a region. I believe the voters deserve answers. So, as was said in the debate last week, the Right Party and the Advance Party will introduce a publicly funded start-up of a wide range of private offerings that can treat all patients with the need for the community. There is a mantra here that the available capacity in the private should bring down the waiting lists, and as I understood the representative, Höie, remove the queues. I got the impression that the queues could be lost – that is, that some people are waiting a few days to get to treatment is going to be completely gone. At the same time, he said that no country has implemented the Right System. I understand more of that when I heard the article. It's not just that such offers show up with their capacities – the money and the professionals have to come from somewhere, and at first it's from the public budget, the community's money, and it's touching very critical professional environments in our hospitals. The OECD recently pointed out that Norway had high public health performance. We also have great results in terms of cancer survival, complicated diseases and the introduction of new technologies. That promises well, and I think that I will then turn the representative Höie's words to mine: We have a good health service in Norway that offers good offers to the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4132	The government itself spent a little time pointing out that the waiting lists are going down, and he did so on the same day as the National Audit Office presented a report that shows extensive misregistration, major deviations, juxtaposition – that is my word – but registration is contrary to the law. At the same time, eleven supervisors have shown the same thing, and we also know jux earlier from Asker and Bærum and from OYS. I have looked at the news today that the Council of State is taking the report seriously. He will take care of it as early as tomorrow, and I appreciate it. He'll summon and prepare. It's in many ways dialogue. My question is: What measures, besides dialogue, will the Council of State take to change this misregistration?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4141	I also notice that the Riksrevision today says that there is no doubt that the waiting time goes down. But let me just say quite clearly: there's too much ambiguity and mess around this. It has to be cleaned up, and it's a persistent task to do it. I also see that no one has made the claim that this is tricking to try to cheat with a deliberate intention. I also want to be careful to conclude on the review of the Health Authority, because it is not finished. We're going to hear what they're going to bring. It reminds me of two things: it reminds me that the patient administration system is too incalculable – probably too complicated – and there are too poor methods to work with it. I have registered that much is done for this. One of the areas is better ICT bets. The fact that you now get e.g. at Oslo University Hospital, one ICT issue for the patient records is a significant advance. These must come month by month in the years that come. Then the improvement in patient rights – with greater clarity about which patients have rights to treatment – is also a simplification. But half past six in the morning, I have a meeting with the regions to go through this and hear what they're doing in this area, and to make sure they're doing the most of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4150	Some of what you're going to hear is probably that they've misunderstood the rules, and then, by and large, my question is how do you want to make sure that it doesn't happen for the future. Now, the government's goal is not particularly ambitious. I guess in the document you're sending out, the goal is to come down for 65 days, but even you can't do it, partly because of this. Whether it's conscious or unconscious, it doesn't matter that much to the patient. So this is where the registration applies. If you are moved from one hospital to another, the deadline starts to run again. It helps the patient very badly. If, after the first treatment, you are required to have several treatments, the period should run again. It also helps the patient badly. Therefore, I would like to know about concrete measures that assure us that this will end, because patient safety is actually at stake, especially for those who have very serious diagnostics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4157	The representative points to one of the processes that might be the reason why this becomes non-negligible, in the form that you want to know how long to wait, and then that's the time you get. That is also what I want to hear thoroughly about tomorrow's regions, the follow-up to making sure that the legislation that you have is understood, that it can be implemented, and that it can be practised in patient administration. So I think there's too much bureaucracy going on. The fact that we now get improved, simplified patient rights by being rights-spaced – or you don't need – makes it easier to see your needs, from being referred to, until you are treated. It's an important help. The third is to be able to use this new technology, so that information doesn't lie down and float, which it does too much today. It has to be cleaned up in these systems, sharpen this patient administration system. It's about training, motivation, good management and good technology. All four areas must be given priority, and those with management responsibility must be held responsible for delivering on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4166	First, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Health on the nomination of the Stortinget for the next period. Then I would like to point out that the Minister of Health said in his speech that he was wondering what was the Right Alternative to Regional Health Companies. Well, the Workers' Party created the regional health businesses without investigation. I promise that the closure will be better prepared than the creation of the enterprises by the Workers' Party. So to the question: The National Audit Office's report today also showed very clear criticism of the government's follow-up to the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital. One of the issues that became highly critical was also related to the building conditions. In our alternative state budget, we propose that the state's contribution to investment in the hospital sector be increased from 50 pst. to 70 pst. Does the Minister of Health think that it is possible to realize a new hospital in Oslo without changing today's investment regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4177	I thank you for the congratulations on my nomination. That's new to me, but if the representative Höie is in it, from the Oslo Workers' Party, I would like to welcome the insight there. I also find it interesting to hear about this with the closure of the regions, and I believe that when there are ten months left for the election, it's interesting to hear what it's all about. The answers are very bad. If it's now that he's somehow going to copy what he thought was bad before, I think it's a bad recipe for the future. It's increasing the loan possibilities from 50 pst. to 70 pst. is an interesting opportunity. It may be an interesting matter to pursue. It may be that there is a proper grip in the time to come. But I notice that some senior hospital managers in Norway reject it. They say that it's taking on debt that then has to be paid in a short time, and then we're kind of in a difficult situation as well. But the hospitals that balance the economy, that can put money into investments, that can take out loans, can also bet on building mass. I think that's the way to go. And then, in the individual cases, we'll see if there's a need for extraordinary measures, but I can't alert anyone like that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4184	Then I can tell you that you have placed a number. 6 on the Oslo Labour Party's list, and that it might be a little bit more uncertain about how it goes there than how it goes about the Health Minister's position on the list. I was going to grab hold of what the Council of State said about prevention. He will present a very important message that can save many dollars, including the Minister of Finance. My question is: when you're going to work on this message, you're going to combine these two departments, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, for example. can the tax system also be used positively to promote public health?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4191	It will be welcomed with enthusiasm at the Oslo Labour Party national meeting that the opposition follows the nomination place for space – I will report that again. I expect to have a good ally in the Minister of Finance when we're going to discuss that message, because I know that he, like me, sees a lot of the shortcomings in the ability to prevent, that happen in many sectors of society, ends up and gets registered with Nav in terms of social security, and in the repair sector, for which I am responsible. But I think, unfortunately, that is not the way in our open economy, our regulated economy, that we can fully rely on prices and charges. We have sugar tax, we have chocolate tax, we have alcohol tax, we have tobacco tax, etc. – that’s important, and I want to protect it – but I think we need to have a much broader grip on attitudes, information, accessibility, advertising, action against young people and action against school in order to solve it. I'm generally skeptical of believing that everything that's good, brutish and broccoli will be even better if you don't get any VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4198	So the chord change is over. In addition, the President will state that it is well known in the Oslo Labour Party as the ‘nomination meeting’ rather than the ‘country meeting’ — there is a certain difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4203	This debate seems to me to have so far shown a red-green longing after a change of government that is about as strong as the corresponding of the bourgeois parties. I really think we've seen that the red-green project is the most small-scale opposition – with a certain exception for the health minister now recently – that in the absence of anything other than recycled half-link rhetoric for a couple-three election campaigns since then is most concerned about constructing a distorted image of what cruel suffering Right has intended to apply to people after the election next year. The right is the guarantor that we build on the best in the Norwegian model, which we stand together for, and that we change where necessary to strengthen it. Right is the real guarantor of more solidarity, more concern between peoples, a tax system that contributes to increased well-being and justice and less disparities, which makes more and more outbursts of school, work and society. And well-being can't only be measured in the number of dollars we collect through split layers we're on when we pay taxes; well-being is when people get what they deserve; it's the quality of what they get, when we politicians don't waste what people trust us with both money and trust, but expect to get something real back – not least is well-being that families and individuals are doing well with themselves, together with others, at home, at work or in leisure. Norway is at its best when we remember that we have a reasonable balance between public and private. It's almost comical that several red-greens for hours have produced it to reduce one tax, which thus prevents jobs from being created, and which constitute pro-mills of the budget we're discussing, almost to a be or not to absolute everything, while at the same time they are totally silent that they themselves are responsible for billions of dollars being used for anything but better services to people because they don't have enough focus on the effect of what you spend the money on. Why do we really think that we have this unculture as for example? The Yard Commission or a brave bureaucrat in the Ministry of Culture pointed out? Part of the red-green self-esteem about how much money is spent, really reminds me most of a 14-year-old who has got his first MasterCard and is on a shopping trip and boasts before the bill comes. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa, on his side, had not heard of any rapporteurs who would have the Right back in government. No, I guess that's why the right now has approx. 120 rapporteurs, and well over half of them live in a Right-Chaired municipality. It would have been good to hope that the government parties used some of the last time they have left, to implement some of the obvious reform needs we see, not least in the justice sector, because here the phase is the following: It's lower police coverage. It's a fear culture in the police. It's a police department that's not there when it's most needed. It's a helicopter gear that was halved compared to the Storting assumptions. It's a criminal agency that announces terminations after seven years of experimentation, with a fulfillment of 96 pst. There are courts that are kneeling because you don't have the ability to strike a balance in the criminal justice chain. It is a situation in which the national lawyer invites himself to the hearings in the judicial committee because his own head/government in budgetary matters does not listen to him. New police high school's gone. The new emergency centre has been allocated 10 million. You don't know when to get in place, or how much will cost. Not one new prison has been planned. The government will not submit a capacity plan for the Storting. This is just some of the bills, unpaid ones, that lie in the pile of broken promises from the government. We need a police force with more resources, but with fewer goals and tasks, and the police have to have time to ‘consider’ what people demand: security – and security for policemen to work when things happen, and not the other way around. Right-wing proposals for a wide-ranging police study have been voted down for years, while red-green politicians have been talking about performance reform. Now a mini emergency variant of a police study, a so-called police analysis, has been invented. In this situation, the government has notified more administrative tasks to the police, not less — the very opposite of what most police officers would have hoped for in addition to increased resources. In total for 2013, it seems that the police will have to use the same money several times in the future, and choose between hiring the policemen they need, or having already staffed on that Commission show that they could not, or on ICT. Summing up, the Red-Green majority should spend less time fighting wealth and more time fighting poverty, and less time should be spent caricing a prom of Right Policy and more time to get results on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4267	On such a day there are many accusations against each other, and there are many parties here who are more concerned about talking about the other people's budgets instead of talking about their own. At least I'm proud to be able to stand here and talk about the Advance Party's alternative state budget, a budget that shows greater freedom of choice for families than what the government has managed to achieve in its state budget. For the Advancement Party, the family is important. There is a bearer body in society that needs to be taken seriously. Families must be strengthened, they must be given flexibility, and not least they must be given flexibility and freedom of choice in everyday life. The Progress Party is showing action by taking the families seriously with our budget today. Only the tax arrangements for the Advancement Party will provide a normal family with normal work and with two children approx. 16 000 more to route. That's something the families are going to notice. Families are different, so it's important to have freedom of choice. We must be able to have cash support, and we must have parental leave that the families themselves can decide on. Last year the government removed the cash support for the two-year-olds, but it wants the Progress Party to return because the freedom of choice for the families is important. Today, approx. 94 pst. by all children in kindergarten. The government is standing here and boasting of the child's hail, a promise that they actually haven't been able to keep, because they haven't been able to get up to 100 pst. equal financing of private and municipal kindergartens. When the government then stands and boasts that they have full babysitting, I have to say that it is a small but. It's just the children who were born before 1 September, who have the right to babysitting. It reminds me of a situation in other countries – when you must have been born before 1 September in order to be entitled to kindergarten, and you must have been born before 1 July in order for fathers to be allowed to take birth quotas, people themselves can start to figure out when to make these children. The Progress Party is adding money to its budget for 100 pst. non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. The progress party meets the child hail lift for which both the Workers' Party and SV were champions. What the Progress Party is also doing is we're securing the children born after September 1st, right to kindergarten next year. This summer we could hear Arild Stokkan-Grande and several representatives from both the SV and the other government parties – even from the Right – talk about how important it was to get more admissions this year. Only the Progress Party has been able to follow this up in its budgets. The progress of these children shows the force of action. When Karin Andersen sits here today in the hall and is worried about the poor children, I have to ask myself why they haven't done anything more. They have now had seven years of majority government. The number of poor children has actually increased. Child protection has not been increased by 16 years of age, and when all the trade unions clearly say that increasing child protection is crucial to reducing child poverty, government parties should listen to it – especially with Karin Andersen at the head. Instead of criticising the opposition for cutting and making it more difficult for families with children, the representative must read the budgets of the Progress Party once more, because the Progress Party is investing more than 300 million. kr in order to ensure a price adjustment of the amount of the child benefit. Child protection has been an important issue for the Progress Party. The opposition and the Progress Party are looking forward to getting a case on child protection. Therefore, it is important that we now focus on municipal child protection. There are major challenges in municipal child protection, and the Progress Party wants to support municipal child protection. But the Progress Party does not cut the child protection, we redistribute the money. So today the government's aversion to private institutions has gone too far. We need diversity in child protection, and then we need institutions of a private nature that can also provide a good offer to the children who need help. We see today that the government has conducted a policy that makes more and more children stand without an offer because there are not enough foster homes. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to move some money that goes to state child protection to the purchase of private services. The budget of the Progress Party is a budget for the family. It is a budget that shows freedom of choice and a power of action so that parents and families themselves are given more power over their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4293	Today’s debate has made it apparent that the government is spending the large amount of money on the most important welfare goods: good health and care services for all through health promotion and prevention, good care services for the elderly and others who need it, broad public health efforts and services close to where people live, at best – as the Interaction Reform puts it. All international measurements show that Norway has world-class hospitals. This is a quality we have to take care of and further develop. The government therefore proposes to increase the hospital budget by nearly 2 billion in next year’s budget. kr. This means an increase in patient treatment of 2 pst. the highest budgeted growth ever. With this budget, 35,000 more patients can be treated, and the budget continues to provide for the strengthening and further development of Hospital-Norway. The regional organisation of hospitals, initiated by the 10 year-old health reform, has been shown to produce very good results. The recently held Specter Conference concluded that we have every reason to be satisfied with the road choices we made at the time, depending, of course, on special challenges, especially in Health South-East. I have no doubt that, for example, the investments made in hospitals in the part of the country where I live would never have been possible if the individual state or the individual hospital were to be seaworthy enough. Not to mention if a hospital directorate were to decide – as the right-wing parties might well imagine. That's why I am a strong supporter of continued regional organisation of the specialist health service, which takes into account both the good functional distribution of hospitals, the proximity of people in the region and those in charge of hospitals, and the ability of the Stortinge to govern on an overall level. Then to the opposition's policy. Throughout the fall, the head of the Health and Welfare Committee, Bent Höie, has stood in the pulpit and cried out that Norway has a classed health system. He repeated this in the debate here earlier today. As evidence of this class-shared healthcare system, the representative Höie says that more and more people buy private health insurance, including in our country. But can anyone explain why Bent Höie today claims that private health insurance should not be necessary in Norway, while the civil government in 2003 introduced tax exemptions for business purchases of such insurance, with a Minister of Finance from the Right at the rudder? In other words, pure encouragement to a behaviour which, according to the same batch, should not be necessary. But let's imagine for a moment that the Right and the Civilian Government in 2003 realized that they were creating a class distinction in the health care system, and that that was why tax laws were introduced for the purchase of private insurance. It is very strange that the profile of the tax exemption introduced in 2003 has proven to be primarily beneficial to managers and other highly paid people, i.e. relatively young, healthy people – and most men. A dwindling indestructible policy if the goal is to counteract class differences, you ask me. I should have liked to have a plausible explanation of this completely unrelated policy today. I don't believe I get that. But maybe right now, hereafter, a silence veil could lower itself over this rather meaningless insurance premise, before the danger turns into tragedy. Or as my old, wise grandmother used to say, when you know that you want to hesitate, you should keep quiet. The truth is that research shows that there are in particular three factors that act as drivers for the purchase of private health insurance: a general positive attitude to – and an active policy for – privatisation and commercialisation of tax incentives for the purchase of such health insurances, offensive marketing in the public private insurance area. This is why we see that our neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark — under bourgeois governments — have seen far greater growth in private health insurance than we have had in Norway. The representative Bent Höie stood a little ago here in the hall and claimed that the privatisation boom Right will roll out for Norwegian hospitals, not exist in other countries. Then I can trust the representative Höie that the main issue of Høre's hospital policy: freedom of establishment – is quite similar to what citizens have started on in our neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark, namely that private commercial hospital owners can establish themselves right where they want to go, treat the patients they find too well, then send the bill to the public, without prior agreement. In Sweden, such a roll-out has been started primarily in the Stockholm area. And the contour of an upcoming profile in patient treatment is already visible: the freshest and most pronounced have had shorter waiting time for treatment, while the patients with social medical diagnosis have had longer waiting time and they have become more. I am delighted with the debate on the health budget that we are going to have next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4327	Once the late representative of the magistrate Olav Oksvik went to the pulpit, he had reportedly noted in the margin of his manuscript: ‘weak argument – raise the voice’. After hearing the representatives from the opposition on the pulpit here today, I begin to wonder whether that is what is on the front page of both the Right and the Progressive Party's argumentation for this debate. The description of the red-green government's commitment to commerce is a good example of it: The speech of the figures is ready. When Bondevik II ran – with the right in the head – the government increased the appropriations for transportation by 6 pst. Since we took over in 2005, the red-green government has increased the appropriations for the sector by a total of 64 pst. If the opposition doesn't trust us, they can at least lend ear to others who confirm the same image, for example. NHO. At a meeting with former NHO director John G. Bernander in Tromsø in the spring he said the following: "One thing the red-green government should have, and that is that it is the first one that has supplied in line with the assumption in the national transport plan." Then we're talking about the most ambitious transport plan presented – an NTP where we're going to spend 100 billion. kr more on transportation. We continue to deliver – including in this year's budget. We're increasing the road budget by almost 10 pst. in the budget of the year. This means that 15 major projects will be completed next year, all with an estimated cost of over 100 million. kr. E6 Øyer – Thirteen in Uppland is such a project. 20 new road projects are being launched. That means that we're e.g. starts construction of Rv 5, Lovesnesbrua in Sogn and Fjordane, thus removing a traffic trap. We don't want collision courses. We increase the operating and maintenance budget by almost 11 pst. and continue the maintenance promise. This means that next summer too, there will be a lot of work when 950 kilometers of new asphalt will be laid on the highways. The budget also continues to be invested on the railway system and results in a filling rate of 103,5 pst during the 2010–2013 planning period. in relation to the financial framework of the NTP. Yes, the railway budget is actually so good that it even made the representative Bård Hoksrud rejoice over the allocation for, among other things. the construction of the Eidanger thoroughfare. «We have never received so much money before for transportation. This is great," said Hoksrud to TA on 10 October this year. Since we took over the government offices and responsibility for the infrastructure in Norway, we have tripled the investment in the railway. Because we have invested, the NSB can now launch a new timetable from December 9 which will lead to an improved route provision for passengers in the East. We have opened, built or started almost 1000 km of new highway. When all is done, the number of kilometers of four-field road will be almost doubled, compared to when we took over. The fraction of all middle parts of the country is built in our period, and the number of traffic fatalities is reduced by 30 pst. We're now using 14.4 billion. kr more in the year on the road and track than when we took over. We've increased the sales bet by 64 pst. – The Bondevik II government increased by 6 pst. But the red-green parts are not satisfied. We want to take Norway further. We still have major transport challenges. We've now started working on the next NTP. I am sure that the government will present a national transport plan containing an even more comprehensive and efficient transport policy than today. The business community is clear that it should be able to maintain its position as one of the world's leading players, they depend on continued safe economic governance and on continued commitment to transport. That is why we are going to go against the Right Cut proposal to the states, which will lead to the states either having to cut the county roads, or in high school. The red-green parties will spend more money to solve the major collective challenges in and around the big cities. We want to spend the big money on the big tasks, like education, research and infrastructure. That's a necessity, we're going to take Norway further. The right, on the other hand, has a completely different agenda. The party talks about research, education, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax cuts as its main priorities. But the alternative budgets for this four-year period reveal the real priorities. On average, the right has prioritised about seven times as much to tax cuts as to knowledge and research, and about four times as much to tax cuts as to road and infrastructure. Is it strange that the opposition needs to raise its voice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4371	One of today's review themes from the opposition is the allegation of lack of political implementation by the red-green government. It's a claim I'm amazed at in general, but especially when Right's most prominent representatives use education policy to show that the red-green government doesn't get what they say. That's why I'm going to talk a little bit about what we've done, and finally I'm going to talk a little bit about what we want to do. To take the most important thing first: Norwegian children are reading better now than before. Significantly fewer children – and especially boys – read so badly that they are under the critical limit. We are in second place in the Nordic region in reading and hitting, among other things. The two countries Denmark and Sweden, which, unlike us, have opened up large-scale privatisation. We are also the country with the greatest success throughout the OECD region in a subject such as natural sciences – i.e. real science. The recognised PISA study is evidence of this. The title of the Norwegian findings in the research study is not randomly chosen. It's called "On the Right Track". Then, for the sake of order, I would like to stress that it is far from just this government that is going to take credit for it. First of all, this good work is caused by thousands of teachers and school leaders throughout Norway. Many municipalities work well with schools, but claiming that implementation is poor is simply a mistake in terms of school results. So let's say a little bit about non-response. Prevention of non-response has been one of the most important objectives of Norwegian school for many years. But we've been on the ground for many years in the case of non-response, with 30 pst. who have not completed secondary education after five years. That's not good enough, and the government has done something about it. The project is called New GIV, and also this year we are focusing on extra efforts on the group of students we know from experience and from research are those who are at risk of falling from. In addition, we systematically use the follow-up service to find every youth and make sure that they have something to do, whether at school or at work. Right is critical of New GIV, because it's too late. For me, it's going to be the same thing as putting the emergency room in a hospital and rejecting heart attack patients, with the reason that you'd rather give priority to preventing an attack. We can't put the first aid down to potential drop-out students until we know that all the kids and all the kids get a good enough offer in reading, writing and billing in the ordinary school. We are about to see the results of this initiative locally, but the solidly documented results we have to wait a few more years before we see, after these students have finished high school. We also focus on continuing training of teachers, even if it does not sound like this when the representatives of the Right speak. The most important thing, as Prime Minister Stoltenberg said earlier today, has been to clean up the old system where the places were not filled. Now the state takes a greater part of the bill, along with the municipal sector, as before, and with the teachers, as before – but we do more. If these courses become full, as we hope they become, and education becomes full, we are willing to spend more money on the table to do something very important, that is to give teachers professional replenishment and further training. So to higher education. We have established 23,400 new places of study since we came to power. The number of credits per student has increased. More than once completes in line with their own plans. A lot of people are getting jobs that are relevant to their education. We have improved the funding for our studies, and we have built over 6 000 student homes since 2006 – 1 000 units per year. The last year of the Bondevik government in power, we built 314 student homes. Right-wing representatives claim that there is no commitment to research, because we have ‘prioritised everything else’, as the representative Sanner claimed earlier today. The growth of research budgets has increased by 50 pst. Nominal and 32 pst. actually. It's two and a half times as much as the budget has increased in its entirety. To me, prioritizing knowledge – not the opposite. If the Right still doesn't believe in me, they can go to the figures that show that the number of new employees in the public sector is increasing, and especially because there are many new researchers in the state at our universities and colleges – precisely from what we want: to bet on research. But so interesting is what this leads to. Are we getting good and useful and relevant research on this? Is quality increasing? Is that the country and the people going to benefit? Obviously, measuring research isn't always as easy. But we have recognised ways to do it. It turns out that scientific publications are increasing. The growth of publications is 65 pst. etc., and we do it very, very well also in this field. So Torbjørn Røe Isaken claims that we're wandering in the eye when they ask us what we're going to go on. I'd like to talk more about it, but we'll have to do it another time. I'm sure that those possibilities offer themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4401	With a government budget where the surplus will end up at the base of $400 billion. kr, we are lucky compared to others who wear hard. We're gonna be happy for that. At the same time, the Progress Party is at least equally pleased that the left-hand side of Norwegian policy does not have an impact on its desire to reduce petroleum activity on Norwegian soil. It would be to reduce our economic ability to well-being. Nevertheless, there is a need for changes — such as reducing taxes on wealth. Why is that necessary? Yes, mainly because there is a need for a growth-enhancing tax reduction, not a growth-reducing tax on working capital, jobs, tools, machines and equipment. A hotel owner pays the same tax for an empty bed that the neighbor hotel pays for one that is rented out, and most people understand that it is meaningless and a little forward-looking. Resistance to the reduction of taxes on working capital is rejected because it will reduce well-being, it is claimed. It must then be legitimate to ask why the reduction of income from taxes would result in fewer warm hands, or reduce the current hospital supply, while the reduction in oil activity would not do so. But the Progress Party sees through the reluctance. Lack of willingness to reduce taxes is closely linked to the overproduction of bureaucratic barriers in terms of both the regulatory framework and the increasing number of those responsible for managing a more and more nurturing network of laws, regulations and prohibitions. Now we're approaching here in the country that every third of the workforce is public, as opposed to, for example, Germany, where this part is less than one in ten. The party of progress sees that this is not viable, and that it must be reversed as it is a fact that the Norwegian department and the directorate grow three times faster than the rest of the state. One shall report, check and record without becoming more well-being. The wonder is that when the theme of tax reduction comes up, it is the welfare and care sectors that are being reduced. We never hear that there will be fewer bureaucrats. The party of progress understands where the government's sympathy and loyalty lie: not with those in need and sick, but with the bureaucracy. As I said, it's getting more and more of them. This has the Progress Party taken the consequences of, not because we have something against the individual added, but because we want a state that cared for people – not the other way around. So a few words about Statnett's user advice and the user representation on the board: the largest users of the central network have so far been represented on Statnett's user council and have had a representative on Statnett's board, but in the 2013 budget, the government proposes to wind up the User Council and remove the user representation on the board. This is mildly unwise. State networks will invest large amounts in the central network in the coming decade and costs will be financed by users. In that case, it is inconceivable to remove the user representation in Statsnet's body and thus make Statnet a more closed organisation to the users. Statnet as a monopolist must instead be extra open and inclusive of the status and level of activity. At the same time, it is also important that the Statnet Board is composed of a competence to ensure efficiency and control. The User Council and the Board of Directors have provided transparency to Statnett’s decisions and its ability to influence them. The value of this is anti-conflict and leads to more democracy, more openness. Wasn't there an explicit destination for a relatively short time ago? Finally, a few words about the energy nation of Norway, which does not need an energy message, equal the government council Ola Borten Moe. Yesterday we received a report from the Oslofjord Foundation, the Institute of Energy Technology, the Telemark College and the County Municipality of Thorium. The conclusion is as follows: The energy content of the thorium resources in the Fensfield is probably at least 10 times, if possible 100 times the energy amount of all oil and gas in the Norwegian base, including extracted, known and estimated with undiscovered resources. Nevertheless, this government chooses to remain totally indifferent to this possibility, but rather invests its resources in the purchase of the world's leading tradesmen in London or Paris. What kind of action is this, when we know that the world will increase its energy needs by 100 pst. towards 2050? Once again, we see that this government is closing its eyes on the possibilities that lie just in thorium, and is only managing until 2013. But then they need redemption. For the Workers' Party, the scope of stable control is permanently lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4433	On 16 November, the Bergen Economic Council held its annual conference. It had the theme "A Peaceful Island in the Raging Sea. Is it possible to develop in a bubble?’ What the speeches were about was what the business community expected from the state, and what was going to do to develop a good, stable Norwegian business. I quote from the web version of BA: ‘– TAX, Stordalen screamed. I don't accept Norwegian companies moving to a tax haven. If everyone had done that, what does that end with? – Norway tops all the crews and everyone's fine. Everyone must be involved, everyone must contribute, is the foundation on which the country is built. It must also apply to those who run large companies, said Stordalen." Tax is good. Well-being is security as needed. I get seriously worried when the right-hand side cuts taxes and finances it with cuts in sick pay and disability benefits before people have recovered. The IA agreement has taken time to get the effect out of it. Efforts over time, changes in attitudes and improved schemes for people and businesses are now delivering results. We get lower sick leave due to effort over time. Luckily, for people and business, the effect was not forged, but incorporated when we got the results. There are rights determined by law. We can't sign them out on the revised. From our point of view, this is a bold way to conduct economic policy – to stay within a parliamentary language. Coming from Hordaland and representing the Workers' Party means that in the back of the population there is an acute concern about increased crown prices and increased interest rates. Our competitive business depends on us keeping tight governance. We don't dare to allow ourselves to create situations that can create worse conditions. Our tax money goes to crucial tasks for the competitiveness of business. Recruitment of skilled labour is about more than the pay conditions that can be met. It is about kindergartens, quality, reasonable price levels and good municipal services, primary schools and care services. Attractiveness is about caring for the whole human being. For that, we use the tax money in a strong municipal sector. Sick leave goes down. In fact, the proportion of young people goes down slightly. More work longer. The proportion of classified sick messages is increasing. It's a development we have to make sure to continue. Today, there has been a debate on shares and development: who is within it, and who is outside it? For approx. One year ago, this room, with the exception of the Advance Party, managed to regroup a new and improved zero-tire to strengthen the working line. It would pay to work, there was agreement in the hall. The figures for development so far, before we have implemented it, are that in 2003 the proportion of the population was 10.4 pst. It sank continuously until 2009 and has since then remained stable at 9,5 pst. The proportion falls in all age groups with the exception of the age group 19–24. It's going up slightly, from 1.1 pst. to 1.2 pst. – that's the explosion we're facing. But we're not satisfied with that. We're going to have it lower, we're going to include more. With that, we need to take action in many fields at the same time over time, with actions that work together and reinforce each other. We make the journeys of work and education permanent and double the framework. People get to work, that's actually a good point. We continue to invest in universally designed ICT so that more people can participate in debates and be at work. We continue and strengthen the job strategy for those with disabilities, and we separate VTA at a separate post, so that it does not fluctuate with the vacancy, because it is not a professional group that swings. So we attack from three fronts with measures – together with others. Trainee positions in the country are a permanent, focussed and strengthened system. Tripartite cooperation over time has led the NHO to decide to set up projects Rings in the water, which are just about opening the doors of working life from the inside. They commit to taking people into work. Norwegian employers miss the good skills. The municipalities, with KS, are collectively the largest employer we have in this country. That is why the Ministry of Labour, together with the KS, has invited the municipalities of Bergen, Sandnes, Sarpsborg and Lindesnes to be municipalities of the past in terms of including more young people with disabilities in work. We do not think it is right for the proportion to increase, so we are taking action on all fronts and changing attitudes. We do that together with the business community, with the municipalities, with the state. What we're doing is helping to change attitudes so that all the actors open the doors from the inside. Then we can cut the sick leave and disability – when we see that it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4470	This has been an interesting day, a lot of posts have been made, and according to the list of speakers, there are also many remaining ones. I have with great interest listened particularly to the posts from the Right today, and I have many times en route wondered a little and asked myself whether it is really the party Right who is speaking. There has been a lot of talk here about raising those at the bottom, social differences need to be balanced, and more will be done for those young people who receive social assistance. I almost don't know the game again. Is it because the party has changed its policy? No, the party on the right has changed rhetoric. It has, for example, have an amazing little talk about – with a few honest exceptions – the tax cuts or privatisation you want in several areas. But what is perhaps most serious is that no one in the Right will provide a proper explanation of what will happen to the rule of action at any government change. The party of progress has made it quite clear that they want to use more of the oil wealth, while the Right does not want to say what to do. I have also noticed that someone has tried to push Marit Arnstad in front of him as an example of a lack of clarity regarding the rule of action. It is completely uninteresting in today's debate. I want an answer to what the Right actually means. More people today have been talking about school. I think there is a broad consensus here in the Chamber that we are too good teachers, and that we are all concerned about the dropout in high school. What we disagree about, on the other hand, is the relationship with the private schools. On the right, they last put in government proof that the willingness to open up more privatisation was more than a warm presence, a privatisation that means that money is taken out of public schools to operate private schools, which in turn will lead to the closure of schools and offers. In my county, South-Trundellag, the then state council, Kristin Klemet, put up for a grand privatization. She accepted almost 1,300 private places in high school all the time as a state council. For us it would have meant the closure of several schools, and it would have been the schools in the district that had gone first. The closure of secondary schools in the district has major consequences for local business, which loses its basis for recruitment, for the tax access to municipalities when jobs are lost, and not least for the students who have to leave home, which I think is very unfortunate, and which we know has a direct impact on the drop-out. In addition, I generally believe that more privatisation leads to that we get A-schools and B-schools. We don't have to look beyond Sweden to see how the school system gets hit by massive privatisation. Luckily, Kristin Klemet never implemented his project in South-Trøndelag because the red-green won the election in 2005. But we know what we're waiting for if there's a government change next year. The word ‘implementation force’ has been frequently used here today, and it is claimed that the government does not. It is okay to disagree on the policy being pursued, but one should almost think that the Right wanted more of the government's policy since they are constantly coming back to it with implemen­tation. It is particularly in the field of research that the government is particularly criticised for the lack of implementation. It is made here today as if the government has not used a single penny on it – it is actually wrong. Of course, it's perfectly legitimate to want to spend more money on research, but it's not possible to deal with facts. Since 2005, the real growth in the research budget – adjusted for all possible prices and wage increases – has been nearly 30 p.p. This is for information, so we can put that ball dead. Finally, I'm so lucky that I've been allowed to work on development policy in the last three years. I am very concerned about the Norwegian aid effort if the draft budgets of the Progress Party and the Right are the kind of policy we can expect at any government change. I am aware that the Christian People's Party disagrees with its allies. In the treaty debate, Line Henriette Hemdal showed that the United Kingdom has a government “conservative parties that cut in all areas except one, and that is to the poor of the world”. I have no illusion that the Right Party and the Advance Party will cut everything for the benefit of aid. Today's debate has been so far a good proof of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4485	If important policy objectives are to be achieved, markets must be corrected by governance of elected bodies. In order to ensure important social interests, such as environmental considerations and social and geographical distribution, development cannot be left to market forces alone. Government involves a system of governance with influence for the many and the spread of power, capital and property. A living and decentralised democracy with broad participation is fundamental to meeting the societal challenges. A living local democracy is the foundation of popular rule. The Labour Party will strengthen democracy both locally and regionally. We believe that there is still a need for popular governance at regional level. The county councils are responsible for developing a regional policy so that we can exploit the potential of all parts of the country. Municipalities must contribute to ensuring a living local government. The main task of municipalities is to give citizens access to an equivalent offer of the most important welfare services where people live. The aim of the Workers' Party for the municipal sector is to enable all municipalities to provide modern and safe, good-quality welfare services to their inhabitants, and to offer as much equivalent as possible throughout the country, both in large and small municipalities. It will create security and freedom, and it will provide development opportunities for all municipalities. We have carried out major reforms in the last seven years. Full child care coverage and cooperation reform are two examples of the major and important interventions taken. No one should claim that this government has not had visions and implemented changes. This government also has enforcement power, all other claims fall on its own unfairness. But we also have ambitious goals for the future. Good municipal services must be ensured through a sound and secure local economy. There is a need for more sick homes and lucky day care places in municipalities to meet the older part of the population’s needs. As far as possible, the elderly shall receive the assistance they need, as near as possible where they live. We have adopted a guarantee of dignity for the elderly, but the implementation of it requires accessible spaces and good offers. These are the tasks of the municipalities, but they must, in close cooperation with the government, secure and predictable financing of this important offer. In the Labour Party, we can proudly look back on the results we have achieved in the municipal sector over the last seven years. The sector has been allocated about 61 billion. kr. That's an amazing amount of money. This sum is not just numbers in a book, but it has given many new kindergartens and many new nursing or nursing places. There have been several teachers, nurses, carers and preschool teachers. The red-green government has added a right to a formidable growth in employment in the municipal sector. From 2005 to 2011, the growth has been 14.3 p.m., or in a different way: an increase from 446,000 to 510,000 persons employed. This means that welfare is increasingly produced in Norwegian municipalities. This has been possible precisely because the government has prioritised the local economy. Next year, the municipalities will have more than 400 billion. kr. Of these, over 300 billion is. - free income. The growth in free income for next year is 5 billion. kr. For the Workers' Party, it is important to have a balanced representation of the situation in Kommune-Norway. We don't want to paint the situation, but we don't see any reason to paint the situation, to which we sometimes refer among the opposition. There is a lot that is good in Norwegian municipalities, although some can be done better. That view also shares the local authority's own organisation, KS, with us. The right is concerned about telling them that they have new ideas and other solutions. I see that the Right does not have more money for the local government sector in its alternative budgets than the government has had, this year or earlier. What, then, is the difference between the Right and the Government? The truth about the local economy of the Right is that the framework is the same as that of the government parties, but the Right wants a completely different distribution of tax revenue in the municipalities than the government parties. The right recipe is more for tax-rich municipalities and less for the tax-weak. It means bigger differences. Nine out of ten municipalities will have a lower level of income, and welfare services will be affected in these municipalities. There will be greater differences between municipalities and greater differences in the welfare provision of residents. This is well known to the Right, but since policy is firm, there are clearly increasing differences. There are no new ideas we hear, there are no better solutions. This is the same arrangement as the last Erna Solberg could decide what the municipalities would get. This means greater differences, less to those who have at least already, and more to the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4508	Norwegian agriculture is unique. Our country is unique. It's cold, it's long, and it's steep here. It is difficult to grow food in our country, but thanks to political instruments we have about. 50 000 annual works in Norwegian agriculture. Food is produced around the whole of Norway, producing unique and good raw materials. Thanks to the unique and good raw materials it is approx. 40,000 people working in the Norwegian country-based food industry. In my own county, Hedmark, from which the representative Bredvold also comes, there are over 2,000 people working in the food industry. In Ingerd Schous County, Eastfold, there are 3,500. That's how we can go from state to state throughout the country, and if we hadn't had land-based raw material production, we wouldn't have had the heavy food industry either. In the spring we had a big debate in Stortinget on the road further for Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian agricultural policy. The aim of the majority of the population was to take part in the responsibility for increasing world food production in Norway, and that we should have the ambition to increase our food production by about half. 20 pst. within 20 years. It requires political will. There are three main pillars of agricultural policy adopted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party. One is the agricultural agreement, i.e. budgetary resources, the other is the role of cooperation, and the third is customs protection. In this budget, we are strengthening the most important support, namely customs protection. The government saw that customs protection was so vulnerable when it came to beef, lamb and cheese that if we wanted to secure an agriculture and a food industry throughout the country, we had to go from the dollar to the dollar. Then the government does it and stands up for this industry. By doing this, we ensure volume in the food industry, we ensure the possibility of discussing prices as other costs in society increase, and we can secure the possibility of developing Norwegian agriculture in future agricultural settlements. That's good. But what's sad is that three of the opposition parties have spent so much time talking Norwegian agriculture down, and talking this customs down, both Right, Advance Party and Left. I think it is almost incomprehensible how strong words you have used in view of the fact that we want to bet on Norwegian agriculture. And as far as the budget is concerned today: one thing is that there is a proposal to improve customs protection, but one also attacks the other pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy, namely the agricultural agreement and budgetary resources, where the Right Cuts 1.5 billion. kr. It is amazing that the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen, who comes from Finland, representing grass-based agriculture, will vote in favour of such a proposal, reaching 85 pst. budget resources are just going to grass-based agriculture. It is also amazing that the representative of the Progress Party in Sogn and Fjordane will vote for a cut-off proposal of about 5 billion. kr of the budget for agriculture, when we know that in Sogn and Fjordane everything is grass-based. If you're in favour of those cuts, at least you have to go home to your own counties and say that we want a reduction in our agriculture, a demolition of our agriculture, and we don't want any food industry in our area. If we are to be able to have agriculture in Sogn and Fjordane and in Finnmark, we are totally dependent on political instruments, because we do not have the same opportunity to have effective agriculture in Sogn and Fjordane and Finnmark as in France and Denmark. Then there must be political will to get it done, and that is what the government is now showing by the fact that we dare to take the customs procedure that we are doing. So my call to former co-founders is: Be honest with what you want in agricultural policy. If, on the one hand, you make it harder to charge prices, and on the other hand, you are spending less money on Norwegian agriculture, you must at least be honest and say that you want a reduction, a demolition, not an increase, as part of you are talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4524	Never before have there been so few farmers as now. Of these, there's only a few that have this as their sole occupation. Never before – in recent times – has there been so little agricultural land in claim, and never before has there been so many unoccupied farms as now, even though many want to buy a small farm. We have had too little production of both eggs, butter and ribs, etc. And at the same time, we dump meat abroad all the way down to 10 pounds. The very last thing today is a new butter crisis. For almost two periods we have had a red-green government with a Minister of Food and Agriculture from the Central Party. My question to the Council of State is whether the government is satisfied with the results of its agricultural policy. Or does the Council of State see that something has to be done, as the Progress Party wants, so that we can have a Norwegian food production that produces the demand, and with the freedom of the individual farmer to adapt his production as he thinks it best suited to his farm?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4532	There is no doubt that there is something that needs to be done in agricultural policy all the time. We must follow the challenges facing agriculture and Norwegian agricultural production. Therefore, before this budget was presented, there was a very extensive and big discussion in the government: what did we think was the most important thing to ensure Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production in the year we were entering? The most important thing for us, and the most important thing for agriculture, was the improvement in customs protection. There was a unanimous demand from Norwegian agriculture to do so. We listened to agriculture, and we listened to the Norwegian agricultural food industry and implemented it. There will be some crocodile tears when you are so concerned about developments in Norwegian agriculture and at the same time choose not to listen to the heavy trade unions and their main demands against the Norwegian political environment. The main requirement was to improve customs protection, and the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4537	Governments are swinging to the great heights and taking responsibility for the world's food production. Then it's important that it's sustainable here at home. If you go into the red-green budgets, you'll find that there's a place between 250 million. NOK 300 million and SEK 300 million. kr for organic production. The objective of the Council of State is 15 p.m. At the moment, the first value is 1.5 pst. That means you can multiply this times ten, and then you're going to spend 3 billion. kr on it. In addition, the goal is to now use 4 pst. of the area – the ten-fold will mean 40 pst. Given these great visions to contribute to the world's food production: where is the sustainability of the economic – I think of the use of money over public budgets – and also in land use, which is undeniably greater?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4544	Some of what has been very enjoyable in Norwegian agriculture in recent years is that a variety of products have come into Norwegian store shelves thanks to an increase in Norwegian food production. One of the environments that has been driving it has been organic farming, which has produced more local food production. We know that there are a lot of discussions about organic farming, but there has also been a lot of innovation in organic farming, not least in terms of local food, which now has a turnover of 2.8 billion. kr in the retail trade last year. So we believe in the government that it is also good to facilitate organic farming because it can have other agronomic methods, other cultivation methods, which allow you to have a crop rotation to conventional agriculture, and that both of them can help make each other better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4549	But that's not what I asked you, President. Do I have another line?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4554	Unfortunately, the representative does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4557	An agriculture changing, the Council of State said. Then I intend to challenge a little beyond next year's budget. If you look for a few years in the future, at the challenges of Norwegian agriculture, at a possible WTO agreement, what does the Council of States think are the main instruments he is facing in order to have a viable agriculture across the country, let's say in five to six years' time? What measures does he think will be most effective in ensuring a living agriculture throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4567	I was also inside my post. The three most important supports that the Central Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party voted in favour of in connection with the agricultural notification were the agricultural agreement – that we should continue to have the unique cooperation between the state and industry, and that it is not just me, as Minister of Agriculture, who is going to define the challenges, but that I should do it together with peasants and small farms, and together see it in a good way. That's what both of our parties voted for. The other is customs protection. We are totally dependent on customs protection to produce food in Norway. I was a little surprised when I read the financial position and saw that the Christian People's Party had a slightly different arrangement on customs protection than what we had presented. But at least in the main lines, we agree, even though you have a slightly weaker improvement than what we have mentioned in our proposal. The third is that we should also have strong cooperation, because cooperatives have had a completely different policy and ensure that raw materials can be delivered from all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4578	Then I continue on my first line and what I got in response. It's a shame, I think, when the only solution to save Norwegian agriculture is a strong customs protection, it's the only rescue for Norwegian agriculture. We in the Progress Party also have another thing to think about, and that is the consumer perspective. For us, it's important. Then my simple question: why do we dump meat abroad for 10 kroner per kilogram instead of Norwegian consumers being able to benefit from cheap meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4585	Norwegian agricultural policy is aimed at the domestic market. The whole use of the instrument is also targeted at the domestic market, except for a little on the Järlsbergosten. But the main point is that we are going to be able to supply the Norwegian market with e.g. pig meat, which is the problem raised by the representative of Bredvold. As regards the export of pigmeat to Ukraine, which was the theme here, it was about. one and a half percent of the Ukrainian market delivered there by Norwegian pigmeat. Then it is the Norwegian farmer who also takes responsibility for overproduction. That's why it'll be very precious for the farmer with overproduction. It's one of the things that I think the Progress Party should also think about when they say they want to remove all the concession limits and let go of everything freely. This will mean that there will be even more instability and even more uncertainty in relation to raw material production for a long-term industry, and there will be a need for predictable frameworks to avoid the kind of situations we have now had with overproduction of pigs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4592	So the line change is over. The President records that we are over the regulatory time of today's meeting, but suggests that we continue until today's map is finished. – No one protests against it, and it is deemed to have been adopted. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4602	Roader is a hot theme in East Agder. I had probably expected my county to have received more than crumbs from the government, but with the budgets that this government has presented over the last seven years, it's just crumbs of East-Agder's being awarded, despite the fact that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV have been unique rulers. In East Agder we're still waiting to build up the last remainder of the E18. We have two parcels where nothing has been done. For the route E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand with two pedestrian fields and the route E18 Tvedestrand-Vinterkjær, which has a particularly dangerous cross at the exit to Risør. The Progress Party will have a safe four-field E18 throughout East Agder, and in government cooperation in the next period we will show action. Rv. 9 is an important road for East Agder, it goes from West Agder through my state and into Telemark. It's the main road to the West, and it's heavily trafficked. Rv. 9 missing yellow midstrip much of the way, so the road is narrow and very dangerous. In several places it is virtually impossible for two large vehicles to meet. This is unacceptable in 2012. Seatsdal is dependent on good roads, because they have neither ports, railway stations, nor airports. A safe and effective rv. 9 is a base for further growth and development in Seatsdal. That is why the Progress Party has always had a focus on this national road. The progress party will have a safe rv. 9th@item: inlistbox Rv. 41 extend from Kristiansand, past Kjevik Airport, through East Agder and into Telemark. The road is of such low standard that it is to laugh off. There is a lot of heavy traffic on these narrow roads, but the government has seen no need to do anything about the distance. The representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party should probably drive this way once to see how bad it is. The road, which goes through Birkenes, Fromand and Åmli in East Agder, is also an important trajectory for my county, just like rv. 9th@item: inlistbox The party of progress will also have a safe rv. 41, both for those who drive on the road, and for those who live along the road. Finally, I would like to make a happy announcement. The business community in East Agder has wanted an airport. That's why business itself has done something with its desire. Arendal Airport Gullknopf, the private airport located in the communes of Fromand and Arendal, has now come to such an extent that a concession has been applied for in order to operate the airport with paying passengers. We praise the business with the Fossek Company clearly at the head that has shown the power of action in order to achieve this, and we are pleased to see what will result in the years that are coming. When business shows such a willingness to get something to do, I see it as a matter of course that the state pays at least the road that goes from E18 to the airport, on the same line as the road out to Torp. I look forward to a change of government next year, a new government, so that the people can see what the Progress Party means by the word "action force", so that the people can see what the Progress Party means with security, and so that the Advance Party can show that freedom for the people is also of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4617	In connection with the government’s government budget, I see that the bulk of the population has been given the opportunity to change two things: treatment trips abroad and support for the Seafarer’s Church – well and good, very important purposes, but nothing for example. increased treatment in the care of drug users, despite the fact that it is this government has flagged as one of its main areas of activity. The election next year is whether we will have twelve years of red-green government or a bourgeois government with new ideas and better solutions for Norway. I want to refer to the Right Alternative Budget. We want a well-being that works. We want our new ideas and better solutions to create a well-being that works, where more people get treatment faster, and where we lift the weakest and help more people from social security to work. That's what becomes the center. The most important thing for the Right is that all our policies are about people and not about billions. It's about the people who meet our policies, and our policy is up to the exam just in contact with the individual person. I feel that the government in this state budget is depriving the offer of drug users and the treatment they need. I have thought many times in the debate about drug treatment or not, increased capacity or not: Where was the government lost its heart on the way? The decline in drug treatment comes at the worst possible time. The government issued a big message in June this year, where expectations became quite high – they created an expectation. In addition, the designation of drugs for municipalities is removed, and this offer is also downgraded in relation to regional health firms and specialised health care. It is also the case that the Interaction Reform gives incentives to reduce drug treatment priorities. In my locality, the Smälen, I can read that the representative Wenche Olsen of the Workers' Party is giving up expectations that now institutions for dozens of long-term treatment sites of drug users at Phoenix House Haga in Eidsberg and Nybøle in Spydeberg will be saved. There is nothing in this state budget that warrants it. I would very much like the government to be able to confirm that it was the case that long-term treatment sites were not being turned into short-term treatment sites, that the government is standing by what has been prioritised, namely that it is the people who are the most important, and that there is capacity in the long-term treatment of drug users when we have 3,500 patients in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4630	I'm glad I'm not a municipal politician in these budget days, when one sees they have to cut our local politicians. In my own municipality, Selje, they have to cut 4 million. kr in the care sector. In the exhibition municipality of the Center Party in Sogn and Fjordane, the Gloppe, which has previously changed the school structure and laid down cross-country balls and, in addition, already introduced property taxes, they now have to cut around 34 million. until 2016. From the red-green parties, the amount of money the municipalities receive and the gleam with the transfers to the district municipalities have been boasted. The truth is something else. The reason why the district councils do not have the budget to balance without a big cut is that the criteria for government transfers are negative for these. These dramatic cuts are affecting the weakest, those who need psychiatric help, child protection and the elderly who need care and care. When the red-greens took over in 2005, there were great expectations that the red-green government would provide the municipalities with a lot of money, which led to local politicians spending a lot of money on non-statutory tasks, such as: cultural construction. When proposals were made for the construction of cultural buildings in the municipality of Eid in Sogn and Fjordane, the representatives of the Progress Party pointed out that the municipality should build care centres instead of cultural buildings. The group leader from the Workers' Party said that the Progress Party did not have to be concerned, because now they had a government that came to deliver and sew for such a good municipal economy that Eid municipality could build both cultural buildings and care centers. Today, Eid Municipality has got its cultural building, but they still have the old hospital and now work to finance a new care centre. Now the representatives of the Labour Party in Eid Municipality have finally seen that we do not have a government that delivers, but that will compensate the municipal economy for introducing property taxes. We in the Progress Party have a completely different device on the transfers to the local government sector. We want to label the funds. In this way, municipalities can plan investments for school and care and care in a completely different way than they can today. Now the municipalities don't know what they're getting, because all the free resources according to the government's proposals are going to cost increases and more assigned tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4645	In a Europe where many countries face major economic and unemployment challenges, Norway appears to be a different country. The government wants to create the impression that this is primarily due to red-green policy. But the truth is probably more in the direction of the importance of our petroleum resources and how we have combined the resources with competence and industrial development, and there is a broad consensus on how to organise the management of these resources. This has generated large revenues for the country that we use to cover the government's expenditure and partly to build up the State pension fund abroad. It is important that we use this situation and our good starting point for further growth by using the tool represented by the State budget to get a direction that the Right wants, by emphasising a strategy for knowledge and competitiveness. Earlier in today's debate, the Labour Party's fiscal spokesperson, Torgeir Micaelsen, defended the use of state money by Ketil Solvik-Olsen in a reply with the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen for the large investments Petoro makes on a Norwegian base, and he said that these investments were'super-profitable'. I fully agree with that. In this way, it becomes incomprehensible how the government and the Labour Party cannot invest in the measures that will increase the efficiency of existing fields on Norwegian soil. The extraction rate in our oil fields is on average 47 pst. For each percentage point we manage to increase the extraction rate, the gross revenue with the current oil price will amount to approximately 325 billion. kr. Then it becomes to me a mystery how the red-green parties can fail to strengthen the key factors that we know will help to increase the extraction rate and thus be extremely profitable to society. These key items relate to petroleum research, to Petoro and to the Directorate of Oil. In the government's draft budget there are marginal increases of 4.1 pst, 3.3 pst, respectively. and 3 pst. I would like to say at best that this is a standstill in relation to the year's appropriations when we take into account next year's price and salary growth. The right, on the other hand, this year, as in the previous financial year, shows a clear prioritisation of these key elements in order to raise the rate of exploitation and to collect the 325 gross billions per percent that we are able to increase the use of resources. The budgetary priorities of the Workers' Party and the other red-green parties testify to a government which verbally expresses the desire for increased value creation, but which unfortunately lacks the power to implement this policy. This government and the Labour Party have for seven years shown that they do not have the power to strengthen these areas, even though we know that these are ‘super-profitable investments’, to use the representative Torgeir Mikalsen’s own words. This means that we need new ideas and solutions to address the opportunities that increased extraction rates represent for value creation, technology development, industrial development, jobs throughout the country and, last but not least, large revenues to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4666	This debate shows that there is a great difference between red-green government and a civil government with the Right. For the Right, new ideas and better solutions are an important slogan, just as knowledge and competitiveness are a clear objective. One example of this is that the red-green government from its first budget in 2005 until today has carried on an important corner stone business in Sogndal, Lerum, 66 million. kr in the fee increase. One might say that it's gone from 0 to 66 million. SEK in seven years with red-green government. Everyone can see that this is both dramatic and untimely. When asked for a basis from the Ministry of Finance, a clear answer from Secretary of State Roger Schjerva is that this is a creative way of obtaining income from the Treasury. A lot more revealing can't be said. The consequence of these creative measures to generate income for treasury companies is that an important corner stone company in Sogn receives an additional amount of over 60 million. kr per year from red-green politicians. One doesn't need to be a rocket scientist to realize that this is destructive to the company's competitiveness. The right has long regarded the product charge as an unfair charge. Unlike red-green politicians, who are constantly looking for creative ways to obtain income from the state treasury, Right is aware that businesses in this country have a framework for securing businesses and jobs. Knowledge and competitiveness are important for the Right. Therefore, the Right proposes to halve the product charge – as opposed to the government, which increases it by 7.4 pst. This means better competitiveness in practical policies. The first time that Right proposed halving the product charge was in the 2009–2010 government budget. The time that Red-Green politicians from the state, together with Per Olaf Lundtigen, said that they would reduce this fee. In Sogn Avis on 13 November this year we read that the big business representatives Ingrid Heggø and Tor Bremer promised to do their thing to influence. Erling Sande said that he should use the travel hoods he has over him. The representative Per Olaf Lundtägen has also expressed himself critical of the product charge at several times. In Sogn Avis on 15 November, he stated that he would do what he could to correct Lerum's lopsided charging conditions. Today we see the result: they have neither success in a party of their own, nor in government. It is more important, with creative means, to raise revenue from the state treasury than to give competitiveness to the business community. Had Lundteigen, Heggø, Bremer and Sande done as Right and seen action behind the words, Lerum had reduced the product fee by 20 million. kr. It had strengthened competitiveness and secured important jobs in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4692	Before the representative Alf Egil Holmelid gets the floor, Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4695	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to put forward proposal No. Sixty-eight. It is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4700	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4703	The environment and solidarity are the basis of SV's policies. Where the right party wants tax relief for the rich, we want welfare, where the right party will cut into the world's most effective climate action, we will face the climate struggle. Environment and solidarity are also the best basis for value creation and industrial development. SV has long argued that good environmental policies are good business policies. We've encountered a lot of resistance to such a position, but now it's becoming a position that most people are behind. Some time ago we were able to read about the whole front page of the Fädreland friend, who is a regional newspaper on Sørlanden, that strict environmental requirements are one of the reasons why Norwegian industry is doing as well, and it was the industry itself that expressed it. Strict environmental requirements combined with support schemes have led to conversion and technological development. The result is that today we have an industry that is technologically leaning in many areas. When we make changes to meet environmental requirements, it is often necessary to introduce technologies that provide both energy efficiency, cost reduction and better product quality. Strong environmental requirements have raised Norwegian industry to become one of the world's leading, not only in the environment, but also in productivity. With the Climate Technology Fund, we are continuing this policy. Next week I'm going to visit Alcoa on the list, where they're going to develop a new aluminium process with public support. If that process succeeds, it can be a real revolution for the world's aluminium production. Recently Elkem in Kristiansand and in Salten got hundreds of millions to bet on energy savings. Not only does this lead to efficiency, better climate and lower costs, but it can also lead to technological development that can lead to technological exports and new jobs. Solidarity is also an important element of industrial policy. It is an important element of the Norwegian social model, which has proven itself well through the financial crisis. Competence at all levels of the organisation and self-employed workers is one of the most important competitive advantages in Norwegian business. And it's the public common school that lays the foundation for competence. The Right Party breaks down solidarity policy with a tax system that makes the rich zero-taxers, and when they break down social solidarity, it also frames competitiveness and our ability to create value. Industrial policy is more than tax havens, industrial policy must be based on the environment and solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4718	Good health is important for people, and Norwegian healthcare is among the best in the world. We're going to be proud of that, but we're not going to lean back. Still, these are areas that are not good enough. But the opposition's tendency to black paint, we don't want to be a part of it. We're going to take it seriously and have transparency about the cases of serious health problems, to make sure we learn from them. I still think there are few who are familiar with the description of misery that often characterize the debate. Every day, thousands of skilled health workers go to work, only for the benefit of patients getting the best treatment. A recent population survey shows that the majority of those treated in the Norwegian healthcare system are satisfied. It is true that there are more people in line, but today 1.7 million more treatments and investigations are being carried out in Norwegian hospitals than it was in 2005. Despite the fact that more people are in line, the waiting time is shorter, and that is probably the most important thing for the individual. We're going to, every day, do what we can to reduce the waiting time. That's why we're increasing the operating resources of the hospitals by another 1.95 billion. kr. By strengthening a good public health service, we ensure an equivalent and good offer across the country, regardless of the individual wallet. It will help reduce waiting time. But the best thing we can do to reduce waiting times and queues is do a real job of preventing people from getting sick. We see an ever-increasing trend in chronic diseases. In particular, we see challenges in low-income municipalities with low living conditions. I don't think the Right and the Advance Party see or want to see this context. These two parties will, among other things: that the municipalities themselves retain more of the corporate tax. We know that will lead to even better advice for the richest municipalities, where the best-healthed people live. At the same time, those municipalities with major health challenges will be penalised with lower income. This means that the policies of the Right Party and the Advance Party will create greater social health differences, not less. It is in the municipalities that we can prevent and carry out good public health work. That is why I am pleased that we continue the job of reducing the differences in income between municipalities. This year, Kommune-Norge received an increase of 6.8 billion. kr. Norway has been designated by the United Nations as the world’s best country to live in. Much of the reason for this is good welfare arrangements and good health. It is based on all contributing to the community according to its ability. We will continue to do that, and then we can't have a tax system where those who have the most should not contribute. We will give priority to the welfare state rather than tax laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4733	It is striking how the policy is breaking up on the civil side. The right-hand batches agree that the taxes on wealth should be removed. The goal is clear, but how this should be done, or how long it should take, is impossible to say anything about it. It is only clear after selecting the ratio of strength between the batches. As a businessman, it is good to note that Norway is going down. Economic policy is an essential basis for the development we have had. We keep what we went to elections on. It creates security, trust and investment. But we're not satisfied with the state of things. We will go on, and I would like to say a few words about rural and agricultural policy. We will work for settlement and work throughout the country. Urbanisation and centralisation are strong. That is why we need to add appropriate instruments that make people want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the districts. Here, agricultural policy is important. The channelling policy is a keyword. The balance between cereals production in the good agricultural areas, fruit and vegetables on the very best areas, and milk and meat production in the districts is an important asset. For this reason, the agricultural communication has provided for a more regionalised agricultural policy, precisely in order to achieve a more accurate development policy in the regions. Then I react a little when the representative Gundersen says that the right would not make dramatic changes for any business, while they cut a further 1.8 billion. agricultural kr. I understand that the peasants stand up for a constellation with the Right and the Advance Party. Agricultural policy has done a lot of good in recent years: we have had an income increase of DKK 120 000 since 2005, investment grants have escalated, several adjustments have been made in the tax legislation that is positive – among others. increased depreciation rates — and we have increased focus on business development based on agricultural resources. We strengthen import protection for large productions, which is important for rural agriculture. It is clearly linked to the fact that we want to work towards agricultural activity even where conditions are not optimal. We have re-entered the forestry policy, provided the agricultural climate report, which states that active forestry also contributes to meeting the climate challenges. It is this policy we want to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4749	The right wants a new course in cultural policy, and our alternative budget just reflects that. Where power concentration and centralization have been the course of government, we want a way that gives cultural life free rein and good adaptability to the time we live in. Technological developments have given us a new world in which digital communication and globalisation provide new needs, new audience habits, new expressions and new ways to communicate. ‘Convergence’ is an expression we like to use about the phenomenon that technology flows together in the same user unit, such as: on the mobile phone – which is not only for telephony but can be used for most of the time. But convergence does not just apply to the technical. Convergence also applies to the content — the content also flows together. Where are, for example, the difference between live VG Net images and television? It's not that easy to see anymore. It presents completely new challenges for cultural life. There is a need for a cultural life with a completely different ability to convert and adapt to a new era than the government's policies provide. The government has made significant economic upswings, as Valgerd Reply City Haugland's cultural message indicated, but the money has not been spent on other principles or contributed to new ways of thinking. The right has also supported increased appropriations. We have called for new ideas and ideas over the entire government period on how to deal with large budgetary increases in order not to create mutual dependence on public funding, not to lead to power concentration and centralisation, but we have unfortunately spoken for deaf ears here. The money has grown without other sources of funding helping to balance the power of the state's money, where an increasing proportion of the money is distributed by increasingly fewer decision-makers – whether they come from the Council of Culture, the National Library or the House of Film. Right wants a new course motivated by the desire to spread power, greater vitality and adaptability in cultural life. In practical policy, this means using the whole country, for example: through the regional film funds, which have not been increased despite substantial budget commitments, ensure that there are several economic sources – public–private cooperation for cultural building and gift strengthening where appropriate in parts of cultural life – a consistently more positive attitude to the contribution of private actors, and a new course for organisation, where we do not add more tasks to the already centralised bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4762	The 2013 choice will be a direction option for Norway – a choice between more justice and greater differences, between community and privatisation, and between well-being and tax cuts. The government's economic policy has produced amazing results. Norway is going well, jobs are being created, yes, our policy has actually been a success for Norwegian businesses and the Norwegian population. Surprisingly, representatives Sanner, Solberg and Jensen – in their contributions here today – have come to understand that Norway is doing well. Why does the right hand side want to change direction Norway is going in? Erna Solberg has said: «The right goal is a completely different society.» The Progress Party will also have a different society. The Right Party and the Progress Party say we're running a policy where it doesn't pay to work. Right-wing representative, Jan Tore Sanner, was today occupied by the destitutes. In his article he said that they would make demands for them to get them to work. But what requirements? It's probably the same medicine that was used in Sweden, after right's sister party won the election there? The consequence of the right-wing policy in Sweden today is that only one out of three unemployed people receive unemployment benefits. The low pay is pushed out of the system. Of course, the sister party to the Right did not say: vote on us, then two thirds of the unemployed will stand without unemployment benefit. They said tax cuts, but it shouldn't go beyond well-being. They carried out tax cuts, and it went beyond well-being. Honey, it's costing! Also, tax cuts have not helped to get more jobs, and the largest export article to Sweden is that Swedish youth come to Norway to get a job. Right try to represent it as if more people are out of work now than before. The truth is, there are more jobs than ever before. The right shouts that there's an unpredictable explosion in Norway, but the truth is that the number of miscarriages has fallen. Right means that the welfare state is playing because people's fear has increased. The truth is that people live longer, get a higher pension, and we're getting healthier. In October 2012, World Bank Norway joined the sixth best country to feed. The number of enterprises that grow and make good money increases in 2011 by almost 50 pst. In the first half of 2012, almost 14,000 new limited liability companies were established in Norway. Since 2005, some 340 000 new jobs have been created. So far, we've simplified for 3 billion. kr for the enterprises. Norwegian business is going well, and optimism has many places. The question will be: Will there be a strengthening and improvement of Norwegian society or a total change – another society?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4788	The representative Ingrid Heggø started by saying that the next choice is a direction choice. It is possible, but it is mainly in the state budget that the direction is being taken. The State budget is the possibility for this House to realise the parties' speeches and visions contained in the batch programmes of all parties. The Christian People's Party, in its alternative state budget, has made the priorities and found the direction that must be taken to move from formulation to action – something that the government has not chosen to do. Many people with disabilities are not allowed into society because they have some challenges that most of us do not. The Christian People’s Party, therefore, has in its alternative state budget for 2013 taken a take-off and has really invested in good arrangements for those with disabilities. We've found well over 200 million. Compared to the government's proposal for schemes to include people with disabilities in society. We should be concerned that participation in disabled people has had a clear negative trend since 2008, and it is now lower than it was in 2006. The government’s job strategy for the disabled, presented in October 2011, seems to have had no effect on the participation of this group, rather on the contrary. The strong fall observed between 2010 and 2011 has continued. In the 2013 government proposal, the government has increased the job strategy – with 400 new seats – to which the Christian People's Party is of course positive. However, it must be pointed out that unfortunately this is not enough. When the figures show that the strategy has not worked, it does not help to increase the number of sites for action, it is also necessary to look closely at the content of the action and to improve it. It is particularly sad that the drop in the youngest age group has been marked in the last year, when participation of young people with disabilities has fallen from 44 to 39.7 pst. from 2nd quarter 2011 to 2nd quarter 2012. It's a trend we have to turn around. The Christian People's Party has made a significant contribution to disabled people in its alternative budget. Among other things, we have the functional assistant scheme has been permanently reinforced by the follow-up by the Labour Inspectorate to the IA agreement granted 14 million. to help people with disabilities increase their car allocation for disabled persons, thereby ensuring that 5 000 more places of action earmarked for public interpreters, and that a separate interpreting training can be established to increase the allocation to the equality and discrimination Ombudsman by 1.5 million. kr increased the allocation to Nav by 10,5 million. kr earmarked funds for service dogs maintained project IT Funk increased the allocation of user-controlled personal assistance by 150 million. kr. It's about a fairer treatment of people with disabilities in our society. We can – but do we?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4837	In a financial debate, it is also natural to focus on value creation and income, which is absolutely fundamental to our well-being. Our energy resources are absolutely fundamental to our value creation and revenue — and therefore our well-being. These energy resources are the property of the people. To ensure that, and for the people to benefit and enjoy this, we have had the right to return home to secure public ownership, a relapse that we've been fighting for for over a hundred years – against the right forces, who want to privatize and sell out. The right party has argued against the right of return by multiple crossroads and for privatisation. In their applications, the Right Party and the Progress Party reopen to sell these natural resources. Now it is such that one no longer has access to purchase hydropower with a relapse. Homefall was the guarantee we had against eternal sale of the people's resources. After a process with ESA, this system has been phased out, but some companies have a constant force that goes towards the end of the relapse periods, and which is, of course, going to return to public ownership. Therefore, the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to hide behind the industry and say that this is a change that affects only a few percent of Norwegian power plants. In reality, however, they will ‘equalise private and public owners’, as they write, and – as they also say – to ‘ensure competition and ownership.’ This will have far-reaching consequences for ownership in Norwegian hydropower. This means that when the Right and Advance Party want to sell power locally, as they have done, for example. In Trondheim, private people will also be able to buy, and without relapse – so they will be sitting with eternal possessions. The people should notice that. It would be dramatic if our energy resources were to be privatized and thus perhaps also ended up on foreign hands. We've managed to turn our most important natural resource into well-being, because he belongs to the community. Publicly owned power companies give the owners, and thus the people, great values as a contribution to everything from investing in schools to caring for the elderly — yes, welfare services. It's about who should benefit from these values. Is it private, or the community? The laws and rules we have for this today ensure that the Norwegian people own, and enjoy, the hydropower, and that we have national control of the resource. This has great support in the population. We are hoped that the Progress Party and the Right will not be in a position to implement their privatisation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4850	Let me first say that I think it is amazing to hear the representatives of the Workers' Party once again spreading errors about the Right positions regarding the fall-back. We maintain public ownership of the hydropower in Norway, and we will continue to do so. In yesterday's Newspaper we saw Prime Minister Stoltenberg together with Environment Minister Solhjell, who both fear his life's work if Right comes to power. The life plant for which the two struggle is climate and forest activity. It's the same bet that just right, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, fought through in the 2008 climate deal. I find it paradoxical and amazing that the work of life was a defeat by the bourgeois parties. But I'm happy about it. This project is good, and it will be followed up with the Right by the Power. Several in this debate have tried to doubt the right will to follow up the climate agreement at this point – and to preserve the rainforest. There's no reason. The right was one of the drivers of climate and forest activity, and we will continue to be. One fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions are caused by the destruction of rainforests and other tropical forests. The Norwegian climate and forest effort aims to make the conservation of the rainforest profitable. The conservation of rainforests is probably the most cost-effective climate action we have — in addition to other benefits, such as the conservation of biodiversity and the safeguarding of indigenous rights. These are very good principles, to which the Right, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, were the proponents for it to be set aside by considerable amounts. And we got the government parties in 2008 – it wasn't the other way around. At the same time, there was a clear demand from the bourgeois parties that the red-green government should seek to get Nordic allies who could contribute accordingly to this effort. Brazil is so far the largest recipient country and has received 2.65 billion. kr. However, only 655 million have been paid. kr from Norway to the Amazon Fund – a total of SEK 1.9 billion. kr is not used up in Norwegian Bank bills. For the Right, it is poor policy to spend new funds on climate and forest management when large funds are left unused. Good policy for the Right is to identify new projects and partners, while Norway contributes heavily to the conservation of rainforests by several countries. We must try to create and use effective and transparent multilateral channels in order to maximise their impact and maximise their traceability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4865	A happy grandmother I met, thanked me for having such good welfare arrangements in Norway. Her granddaughter was born with great injuries, had undergone several operations in the million class and took medications every month for approx. NOK 15 000. Her gratitude expressed a grandmother's humble respect for a society that spent so much of the community's resources on just her granddaughter. Such values are rooted in government policy and have support in the people. The Workers' Party will continue to be central to the community and redistribution, and the Workers' Party's ambition is to take Norway further in that direction. If ambition is to be met, we must have safe economic governance, develop a dynamic working life and have a clear policy of redistribution. Stoltenberg promised Norway Europe's lowest unemployment rate at the National Labour Party meeting in 2009, and the government has fulfilled the promise. Low unemployment, active tripartite cooperation and work for all are prerequisites for good welfare services. Here you can separate the Working Party from the Right Layer. The right will have more temporaryity, less tripartite cooperation and vote against the most effective measures against social dumping. I am proud of the change that employees and management are making in school, in hospitals and in Nav. Right-hand talks down welfare services to legitimize large-scale privatisation. The income of the municipalities is crucial for getting good services where we live. This government has increased transfers to the municipalities each year. Several teachers, nurses, janitors and environmental workers are the result. Right-wing tax policy is less redistributive, and in West Agder it means that 26 out of 30 municipalities get less. We go back to the municipality of Bondevik II, Røjre’s answer – a policy that few municipal politicians, not even Højres, wanted in 2005. Seven years have spent the right looking for something new, but what they found was old: cut taxes and sick pay, privatisation, less redistribution and unsafe economic policies. The direction was and remained the same. The representative, Røe Isaksen, believed that the government parties were flabbergasted with their eyes and had no answers. Many have asked for answers from the Right regarding the rule of action, municipal taxes, poor children and lonely caregivers, but have been met with silence. We can only record that the polls went down when the right in the autumn became concrete in the policy. The Labour Party will continue the policy that creates values, benefits and benefits. The Labour Party will continue to pursue a policy to cover treatment costs for grandparents’ grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4886	Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg pointed to two important features of Norwegian society in his speech earlier today: We have a more balanced distribution of income than other countries, and social mobility is greater, regardless of people's background. It's a quality stamp of Norwegian society that we easily take for granted, but well-being and equality don't come naturally. When people in Norway do not notice that the financial crisis exists, it is not random but a result of red-green political priority of work and well-being in the last seven years. Erna Solberg has said that next year's election is a direction choice. That's absolutely true. I'm startled when she says, "The right goal is a completely different society." I get scared when Siv Jensen talks about "market thinking at all levels". It is precisely such political experiments that have given the tragic conditions we are witnessing to Europe around the moment. In Spain, 49 pst is. of the youth unemployed, in Greece 46 p.m. and in Sweden 23 p.p. In Norway, youth unemployment is 8pst., and the government introduces a new, reinforced youth guarantee to meet this. So the time is not now for tax relief. Jens Stoltenberg also said another wise thing today, which everyone should remember. He said that security creates bold people who dare to create, and therefore jobs are now created in Norway as never before. Another thing worth noting is that 21 pst. by the establishments last year were immigrants, representing 13 pst. by the population. At the same time, there are many poor families of children among immigrants. Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen said in his previous statement: ‘We must open the gate to those outside’. We're going to make the introduction system even better. We introduce the job opportunities for immigrant women who stand far from the labour market. It's about integration and equality, but it's also about the workforce we need in the future. Erna Solberg wants to learn from Sweden. It's not smart when Swedish bankruptcies now increase by 11 pst. Young people in Sweden and Sweden need to come here to work. In spite of this, it is on average easier for an immigrant to get a job in Norway than for an ethnic Swedish to get a job in Sweden. Sweden has an orderly economy, according to the Right. We don't agree. The red-green definition of an orderly economy is work for everyone. That's quite right when Erna Solberg says: ‘The right objective is a completely different society.’ "People, not billions" was probably the story of the slogan that disappeared.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4914	This meeting is about to become a party. I have not heard the party name Right mentioned more frequently since our last national meeting, but then we also like to talk about our ideas and better solutions. I heard earlier here today the government's fiscal spokesman admit that there are too few people with disabilities in work – the proportion is actually falling. Then he asked why the Right promotes the same suggestions again. The reason for this is simple: we promote the same proposals because, year after year, the opposition's good solutions have been downgraded in the Stortinget, whether in terms of disability assistance or other schemes that could help people with disabilities in their everyday lives. The result is that an increasing proportion of people with disabilities are taking part in the labour market, despite a tight labour market. The share is also falling in 2012. The next week, we will see the same thing again: a government that, without hesitation, votes down the opposition's proposals to strengthen and permanently make an underfunded and unforeseeable functional assistance scheme. This is a scheme which, according to an evaluation by the Econ Pöyry government itself, has ordered, ‘helps people with severe disabilities get into and remain in work’. Year after year, government parties voted down proposals to make the system of travel by work and education for disabled persons permanent before finally turning to the draft budget for the year. Will the red-greens wait seven new years before making the functional assistance system permanent? Neither we nor those who are involuntarily out of work have time for this. But life is more than work. Therefore, the Right also proposes to make the training, stimulation and leisure equipment support system available to them for over 26 years. It is important for everyone — with or without disabilities — to participate in such activity. For all parents it is desirable and important to be active with their children in their spare time. If you're a parent with disabilities, this is not a matter of course. Many aids to physical activity and outdoor life are expensive special equipment requiring special adaptation and are very expensive for the user to acquire himself. Not everyone has financial assumptions to be able to make use of that acquisition. Now it's time to give this a boost. Today's distinction at 26 years of age for support for such aids is age-discriminatory and without professional justification, but I note that the government will probably vote this proposal down this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4938	I can promise the representative Sylvi Graham that now takes the party really off, because I've been counting, and I think I'll mention the right about that. Ten times. Basically, I agree with those who have said many times today that this debate only reinforces the differences in Norwegian policy – left-to-right – and that next year's elections become a policy choice to the greatest extent. In this picture is the Christian People's Party and the Left. Christian People's Party Rigmor Andersen Eide was concerned about agriculture with this government in a row change. How is it possible to stand on the platform and be concerned about red-green agricultural policy when the Christian People's Party wants to form a government with the Right and the Advance Party, which agrees to reduce the level of agricultural transfers, to start adapting to a reduction in import protection and to rationalise structurally in order to obtain cheaper goods? This will affect agriculture and many families, and it should concern the Christian People's Party. This government is responsible for an active and state ownership policy. While the Right and Advance Party will build up public ownership and sell far from large parts of the community's ownership in Norwegian business, we want the state to be an active, long-term and predictable owner in Norwegian business. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe we should sell companies for about 70 billion. kr. In addition, these parties will lower the ownership interest in companies such as Statoil and Telenor. As we have heard before today, the Right Party and the Advance Party want to abolish the principle of repatriation, which ensures public ownership of Norwegian hydropower. I challenged the Right to come up on this pulpit and explain what is the difference between what we want and what was said from the pulpit a fairly short time ago. There is a difference in pre-emption rights to the State. In sum, we're talking about the Progress Party reducing state ownership for a value of about 150 billion. kr. Such capital does not exist in Norway. Selling or selling into state enterprises will in effect mean a massive transfer of enterprises from state ownership to foreign owners. I think that the Right Party and the Advance Party have old ideas and poor solutions: big tax cuts and privatisation of well-being – that is, one country that has invested in such a policy and that has succeeded better than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4957	I think the party has reached the late night hours; for the husband of a lot of shrieking I have rarely heard, and especially about the Right and about the Right view of ownership of the hydropower. But you have to keep leaning -- it won't be any more true for that reason. To a completely different question: I heard the representative Eva Kristin Hansen talking about the «ussocial» Right. I have to say that it's quite historyless, unknowingly, to think that one should have the exclusive right to be socially engaged. The Bondevik II government presented the very first action plan on poverty. It is not the Workers' Party that has done it – not before and not later. In 2010, more than 102,000 children grew up in a low-income family, according to their own Nav report. In the period 2008–2010, over 74 000 children in Norway belonged to households with persistently low incomes. So this is from a government that was supposed to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. Now we can see that it was cheap rhetoric and that the government has not been able to implement the measures. In 2005, Kristin Halvorsen said that poverty should be eliminated. I expect it was from 2006, that it was the ambition when she talked about it. It's going to be pretense. But it's about getting the ball into the goal. It's not always as easy. It requires practice and, at least, testing, but in this area, the government has failed and not been able to carry out what was the ambition. Poverty has increased during this government. To a completely different question about infrastructure and creating values: the right is very clear that we are not changing our ambitions for the construction of double tracks across the East and the intercity triangle. It has to be planned in full, it has to be completed by 2030 and by 2030 with the Right Development Plan, and the government's summer meal has now led to a deficit. The red-green government has therefore, as a result of poor planning and lack of priority, shifted responsibility to future governments. Unlike the government, we are more ambitious, and we would like to recommend new methods, other methods, both in terms of development companies, other forms of financing and outsourcing. We know it works, we've tried it before, and countries else in Europe do the same. And this is about laying the foundation for the growth we are going to have, which is to ensure the well-being of Norway, and which means that we can continue to build on the society we have – not create a whole new one, as I hear the representative says. But we're going to do it with new methods, with different forms and get more out of society than we get today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4972	Over the last year, I've spent a lot of time, when I haven't been here at the house, visiting companies in my home country, Hordaland. This has mainly been the case with our export-right businesses, and much of the focus has been on the situation of our export-right industry, at a time when there is financial turmoil and rising unemployment both in Europe and in other important market areas. What has been the most important and clear of all is keeping order in the economy. The interest rate and the exchange rate are existentially decisive for our export-oriented industry. When the financial debate is now discussing the long and important lines of the Norwegian economy, it is precisely the continuation of a responsible economic policy that is a clear commitment to securing jobs, Norwegian value creation and joint well-being. Employment is record high, and pay is good in Norway. Since 2005, there have been 330,000 new jobs and two thirds of these have come in the private sector. Our export-right industry is busy with stable framework conditions. Together with the resilience of the state's finances, this is one of the most important effects we have of the rule of action – a rule that, when we stick to him, just gives us room for action. On my secret company visits, transportation has been a clear number. two-theme relative to what you've been busy for. It seems to me that we now meet the NTP in the proposed budget, and in several areas we are overcomplying. Only in Hordaland will a billion bet next year. Many of the transport projects started are being carried out or completed, and it is particularly gratifying that the draft budget has been presented with the start-up of several projects that become important for the county. It shall apply, inter alia: new fishing port in Austevoll, E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal and not least start-up run to the double-track on the Bergen–Arna route, which is also an important track section to improve the Bergensbahnen. The right's draft budget can at first sight be presented as an increase of 1.45 billion. D to transport, but when this draft budget has also been cut to ECU 1.5 billion. kr for regional development in the counties, and cut to 0.5 billion. kr in transfers to county councils, so the winnings go way up in spinning. An increase of 800 million. National roads had probably come with them, but the counties have four to five times as much roads as the state, and they are also responsible for public transport. Cuts to county councils will, of course, go against their efforts on the road and public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e4995	First of all, we can state that the representative Kari Henriksen, against a better knowledge, continues to refer to the calculation of the municipal economy as a result of Høre's policy. In answer to questions from the Right, the Department says that this is impossible to calculate. After Kari Henriksen and others from the Workers' Party launched their calculations, we asked again, and the Department and the Council of State have determined that it is impossible to calculate. Kari Henriksen continues with the incorrect statements. The right is concerned with value creation and competitiveness, the very basis for maintaining the well-being we have today. Strong environments of competence and training of new, knowledge-rich workers are key. It is disappointing that once again we can see that the government is only draining the water when it grants resources for higher education. According to the government’s own action space selection, the action space has been reduced after both rest cutting and lack of follow-up in the following years. After seven years in government, and after seven years in the management of the ministry, they still lack a plan to raise the quality of education. The money for meeting new, big youth coals is missing. The action space has not been reintroduced and there is no plan to ensure sufficient candidates with the necessary training to ensure continued value creation and competitiveness, and to ensure that Norwegian business can maintain their positions in international industries. Only in my own region, South Africa, there is a need for hundreds of engineers to maintain the position of the NODE companies, and a large part of them must be picked up from other countries. On the right, new ideas and better solutions will be put in place to stimulate higher quality education, and we will have incentive schemes in place to ensure that it is attractive to choose engineering training, teacher training or health education. The right has a plan to recruit these candidates and will provide the resources to implement it. The right also has a clear objective for Norway to have world-class education and research environments. We have repeatedly requested the government's plan, but we don't get any answers. Without a plan, I realize that it's hard to prioritize, and it's almost impossible to target the effort. When the right re-disposes and uses over 2 billion. more than the government of education and research in its alternative budget, it is because we take the challenge seriously, and we have a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5006	During the debate today, the government has on several occasions been criticised for its inadequacy. My definition of implementation and power is about being able to point out what has actually been done in the last seven years, as it is the red-green government that has had a majority in the Storting. And to make it easier: one of many cases and examples is that we have made it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises by removing the audit obligation. We have reduced the requirement to share capital to NOK 30 000 in a share company. If we see this in connection with the fact that it's created on average 125 new jobs every day in the last seven years, and that only the last year has started 16 000 businesses, I call it a fantastic result. It bears witness to its implemen­tation. Many will think that we have always had free high school in this country. No, it's not like that. It's the red-green majority here on the Grand Council that has adopted this, and we've had a clear objective that there should be equal opportunities for everyone, so that anyone who can afford it should go to college. If we also take into account that there are 23 400 new places of study, we see that the focus on education is strong. The answer to the fact that the red-green government is betting on knowledge is not just in either free high school or that there are many thousands more places to study. We also have to include the bets made at primary school, and not least that it is now full child care coverage. We promised, and we did it. 500 000 fewer people pay taxes on wealth today than in 2005. We've made a redistribution, so those who have the best assumption to pay taxes on their wealth actually pay such taxes. And of course, those who have lower assumptions about paying such a tax are going to drop it. There, too, we have an executive role. We have made sure that there are 22,000 new employees in the municipal health service. This must be seen in the context of the strengthening of the local economy by over 60 billion. kr since 2005. This is completely in line with what we said we would do if we got a majority in 2005 at Stortinget. We said it, and we did it. We told the powerful industry that we would create a new industrial power regime because the old one was no longer in line with EEA legislation. Today, this is in place. And the last step we did was to put in place a CO2 compensation in the price. In sum, with all these measures, we have a new and modern industrial power regime, so that we can ensure the world's cleanest melting plants good framework conditions. What we said we should do is done. It was almost to be believed that after nearly eight years of government power, we have become implementing trough. No, we're hungry for doing more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5024	Research creates the future. Knowledge and innovation should be the driving force behind job security and the development of the Norwegian welfare model. The right has higher ambitions within the field than the current government has. Norwegian investment in research and innovation is below the OECD average and well behind the rest of the Nordic countries. In particular, we distinguish ourselves by the low level of industrial R & D investment. At the same time, we score in average on international rankings over the country's innovative capacity. The same applies to cooperation between academia and business. This weakens our competitiveness in the long term. At a time when we have had great opportunities to lift the field, the government has not been able to use the increased space for action to invest in research. In the government budget for 2012, the government weakened predictability of research by liquidating the Research Fund and removing the gift enhancement scheme. This warned Right against. In the budget we are debating today, research is depriving us of priority. The real growth rate for research is 2.2 p.p., while the growth rate in the state budget is 2.4 p.p. After several years of zero-growth ability, you also do not now deliver within the field. Compared to countries such as Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands, Norway stands out when it comes to private research. On the other hand, there's nothing to rejoice about, because we stand out negative. It is a problem that figures show that Norway is failing innovation. This has a clear connection with the low research effort, especially in business. Right-wing ambition is clear: we have to and must be the best in innovation to withstand a high cost level. On the right, Norwegian research efforts will escalate considerably. We prioritise increased funding for the FORNY programme. We want to reintroduce the gift enhancement system. We also prioritise several scholarship holders and postdoc positions. It is sad that over several years the government has not been able to translate plans and visions into concrete budgets. This year's proposal for a State budget only underlines the need for Right's new ideas and better solutions for Norwegian research.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5037	Then this debate is coming to an end. What seems to be going on is that a lot of people have spent more energy and time focusing on their peers' policies than explaining their own policies. There may not be anything unusual in a debate like this. Now it can be said that if we look around the world, there is no difference between the policy of the position and opposition in Norway all over the world. Nevertheless, it points to some things that necessarily show that there is some difference. Some of the points raised by the opposition have been attacked by the position – in particular, the Workers' Party has to be the attack on the Right. It is repeated and repeated: tax incentives rather than welfare, tax incentives rather than welfare. How many times have we not explained: No, it's not primarily tax relief in that sense. It's tax relief for businesses, so we can still keep and create new jobs. Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen said earlier today that jobs are one of the most important things we have. Yes, that's where we very much agree. That is why we have proposed that the tax on wealth should be reduced so that companies can survive. It does not help: tax relief rather than welfare. On the other hand, few have pointed out the issue of welfare policy to the Right. There it rhymes quite well. But there are several areas where it doesn't work either. It concerns the hydropower – the right to fall back. Time and again, we have said that we want national power management in Norway. But it doesn't help. It'll be half an hour. Then one comes to the pulpit again and says, "Right and the other bourgeois parties will sell the heir silver." No – I repeat – no, we will not. Then, of course, we have been attacked very strongly for agricultural policy. If you had been involved in what the agricultural policy of the Right would have been, it might have been a little easier. It's true that the Right has said that we want an agriculture across the country, but we don't want to spread it beyond, so that everyone dies of it in 10 to 15 years. We want a viable agriculture, which makes those who are full-time farmers have something to live on. That's what the Right Policy is in this area. Now I see that Lundtegen doesn't necessarily fully agree with what I'm saying, but I didn't expect that either. I'm not going to go into more areas right now, but I repeat, it's not that bad what we've said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5050	After listening to the debate, and especially the right, one would think that we were living in a country where there was economic decline, high unemployment, low investment capacity and public poverty, and that people were looking dark in the future. When the world looks at us from the outside, year after year, we are assigned to the world's best country to live in. There is a strong contradiction to what the debate here has shown. Norway is a country with strong and good welfare services, with equal access for most. After this government took over in 2005, there has now been financial control in health businesses. We have received a health service that is one of the best in the world, and the demand for healthcare has increased dramatically in the last decade, following the introduction of the health reform in 2002. The aim of the health reform was to provide the basis for comprehensive management of the specialist healthcare service, to legislate on a clear responsibility and to facilitate better use of resources. This would ensure better health provision for the whole population. We see that technological development creates new opportunities and that new patient groups can receive vital treatment. Norway scores more and more on international barometers for the survival of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, etc. Norway holds world-class medical competence, and a number of advances originate from the Norwegian health system. We should thank all the skilled professionals we have in the Norwegian health care system for that. We have a good public health system, but even the best have challenges. It is against this background that the Council of State has notified several major issues such as quality and patient safety, e-health, public health, etc. In the 2013 budget, the government proposes to strengthen the budget by less than 2 billion. For hospital treatment, i.e. more treatment for patients. After meeting regional health companies in the autumn, I was relieved. Good and healthy economics are reported, more investment is made in construction, equipment and ICT than ever. We are getting better and better at quality, and good cooperation with ideal and private actors is being reported. It is also reported that the waiting time and the number of deadlines are decreasing. But it is a paradox that there are more patients who do not respond to treatment than are always waiting for treatment. When you hear the Right call about private health care, you'd think it was a popular requirement. At the Specter Conference, a study revealed that nine out of ten believe it is the responsibility of the public to ensure good health and care services throughout the country. Safe kindergartens, a good public common school, equivalent care services and security of income and work give individual freedom to choose their lives over tax havens for those who have the most of them. We're not tired or tired. We want to take control also, over the next four years from the fall of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5073	During a row earlier today, the Prime Minister said that it is about how much money we spend each year on the state budget. Of course, a budget will deal with it, but the perspective is too narrow. It's probably so much a question of what results you get for the money. Today we have had another debate with a strong focus on how much money you can put into the system. But it's not necessarily how much money is spent on a budget area that makes progress. It is to what extent the use of money actually leads to better services and better provision for users of public services – for those waiting for health care, waiting for a building permit, or hoping to get business started. I have also not heard anyone from the government parties reflecting on what economists know, namely that it is a loss of power related to taxation. Economists believe that there is between 15 and 20 pst. That is, for every 1000 bills we pay in taxes, we can at best expect to get 850 dollars back in public services. Secondly, there has also been a lack of perspective in the debate, from the government and government parties, that money always has an alternative use. Tax has been deducted from purchasing power, which could alternatively have been left behind by families and increased the freedom of choice of families in the economy, or enabled the individual to cope better – or simply that the individual could make his or her own welfare menu to a greater extent. Another difference is that the use of public money is directed towards ongoing operational tasks in the hope of increasing short-term consumption, while investing more in construction, in installations and in technology to provide the basis for better operation — in the long term. It concerns both infrastructure available to the public and better roads and transport, so that individuals and businesses save time. But the country's own renewal programmes should also be based more on what is economically rational. The Building Communication – which we have in the Committee – on page 24 describes the large maintenance run on public buildings. The municipal sector has one third of substandard construction and another third of poor standards. The maintenance maintenance run was estimated to be 140 billion in 2008 — it has not been calculated since then. kr. So there is no plan, or any prospect, in this state budget for resuming this maintenance run. The government lacks an active policy to preserve society's assets and refuses to learn from, or cooperate with, private people who know how to do this, whether called OPS or otherwise. In any case, the State should consider budgetary systems that provide a better link between investment, return and a disciplining ongoing maintenance regime through depreciation. The municipal sector is also an obvious candidate for such a new scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5088	Many have mentioned the fact that the Storting makes minimal changes to the draft budget presented by the majority government. Yes, there is relatively little that has changed. But something very important has changed. The change has created great and real joy out there, and it's a change that means something to individuals. This applies to the provision of treatment for revenmaticians. The first Norwegian patients with Revmatic Diseases and Psoriasis were offered a publicly funded treatment trip abroad in 1976. From 1997 the scheme was made permanent, following a decision by the Stortinget. Today, the system includes patients with inflammatory revmatic diseases, psoriasis, delayed poliomyelitis, children and adolescents with asthma and lung diseases, and children with atopic eczema. The goal is — and was — to provide documented relief of symptoms, functions, disease progression and quality of life for at least three months after the end of treatment. The supply should be a supplement to hospital treatment. In the government’s proposal for a government budget for next year, there was a proposal to cut treatment travel by 25 million. kr. For the Central Party on the Stortinget, this has been difficult to defend and a priority case to change, and we have contributed to the government party on the Stortinget now reverse this cut. I am very pleased, and that is what is called doing a good budget even better. The provision of treatment includes users from all over the country. It is currently available to patients with chronic inflammatory diseases with high treatment needs and who are expected to have the effect of treatment in a warm and sunny climate. The proposal for a cut off from the government's side was the basis of a SINTEF report on the evaluation of the scheme. The evaluation demonstrated documented efficacy in patients with Revmatic Disease and Psoriasis. Furthermore, the evaluation showed that there is insufficient evidence of efficacy for the other groups included in the scheme and for other groups that would also like to be included in this offer. Prioritisation is a political responsibility. Priority must also be given to different health initiatives. And it's right to question the benefits of a treatment offer, and we have to make sure that the supply is fairly distributed. But then I think we can't start by introducing a cut, and then take the priority and the debate in retrospect. National Council for Quality and Priority shall discuss treatment travel abroad in its February 2013 meeting. Therefore, it was quite right to increase the rights of treatment trips, so that we can come back to further development of the drug supply and look at the types of patient groups that should be given priority. We have better reason to do this after the Council has given its recommendation. The important thing is that the changes take the form of strengthening the overall treatment supply of the chroniclers and those with Revmatical Disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5103	Education and health are interrelated, and they are both important areas of action for the Progress Party. The basis for the basic skills of students is already laid in primary school. That's why we're dependent on having a school that makes sure that the students acquire the necessary knowledge, which makes them rich in knowledge, among other things. well-qualified health workers. It is widely agreed that continuing training of teachers is important, because the ability of teachers to disseminate knowledge is the most important factor in the learning of students. While the government does not increase the investment in continuing training for teachers in its budget, the Progress Party is demonstrating its capacity to act and allocate 200 million. kr. The government is old-fashioned and is wasting resources when it is not willing to allow modern technology, such as web-based continuing education for teachers, to become part of the state system. Many municipalities offer teachers skills enhancement in their own direction, and they are trained two to three times as many teachers as in the government’s scheme – for the same amount. The policy and budget of the Progress Party provide a comprehensive educational cycle focusing on the content and benefits of teaching. Recently, we have read in various media about nursing students who iron out medical bills up to ten times before they pass the exam. In addition, we're familiar with that up to 50 pst. by the students of some of the educational institutions. This does not mean that the content of education is of good quality and must be addressed. The progress party wants nurses who have weak grades in mathematics to qualify through the advanced courses in mathematics, and we want clear goals of competence in education. This will provide a holistic health system that gives freedom and security to users. The government has repeatedly promised full health care coverage, without complying. There is little evidence that the promise of 12,000 new posts will be fulfilled in this budget. The party of progress shows action and grants $1.2 billion. kr to the municipalities. This is earmarked for more sick homes and more well-trained employees in the sector. In contrast to the government, the party of progress also gives the Norwegian Church security and freedom to be an open and active people's church where the priests are present. We will come back to this when the trade proposition is to be debated. I would also like to remind you that the examination by the SSB of the budget of the Progress Party shows that it is responsible. It ensures jobs and gives tax relief to ordinary people. We invest more in roads, and we remove the hospital queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5131	One of the special features of this debate is that we have heard from several speakers on the opposition side – and especially from the Right – that the four opposition parties are quite a few of them. One agrees on more than the red-greens were some about, and then one provides statistics on how many suggestions and issues one has agreed on in the Stortinget. If we go behind these numbers, what is this deal about? Yes, in my committee, in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, it is a matter for example. that the opposition agrees and asks the government to come up with a holistic plan for Norwegian hydroelectric power generation, one agrees to come up with a holistic plan for Norwegian wind power generation, and one agrees that a notification on waste policy should be made. All of these things are good, but it's only when one comes behind this deal, that one sees what the opposition part has to do with. There is no great art to be told to ask the government to present statements and messages in different areas. The challenges arise when you look at the political positions behind them. Take e.g. Watercourse policy, there is no problem for the opposition to agree that there must be a government paper that says something about Norwegian hydropower policy. But when one asks them what they mean about e.g. the community's ownership and control of the hydropower resources, cracks the opposition clearly at that point. Looking at the climate and the climate message, as there was a very bleak feeling towards the opposition party that had to come, and coming as soon as possible, yes, it went well as long as one could ask for her to come. But when she arrived, there were great tensions and indifference between the opposition party about what should be the content of climate policy. The progress party did not even write below on problem description: anthropogenic climate change. Extensive differences: we look at it in areas by region – when one goes into the content of agricultural policy, the content of industrial policy, the content of aid policy and immigration policy and others, the opposition is very shattering. I hope that the year we are now going into – the election year – will just produce political differences, because then there will be a real debate about political issues, about choices. I would like to welcome an opposition that is clear on what policy change they have in common – what will a new government, in which those parties are involved, be faced with? It would be exciting and interesting to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5144	The inability of the parties to understand the fact that raising the bottom line and increasing the tax-free limit are not tax-free to the richest shows that the Progress Party has done its right to have education and knowledge as one of its main areas of activity in this budget, because the Progress Party is committed to having a good future for this country. That future is not defined by using 5, 10 or 15 billion. kr more over the State budget. No, what the future will be depends on our ability to compete in international competition for the smart minds and the good solutions. It depends on our ability to participate in the global knowledge economy that makes completely different demands on technology and skills development, because our citizens deserve security – the security of knowing that their children are well educated, that their children are equipped with basic skills and knowledge to develop and reach their potential, the security of being able to carry our society into the future. Citizens also deserve freedom – freedom from the state's clumsy hand and tight ropes, freedom to choose school for their children through free choice of school, freedom to choose more subjects that increase motivation and learning in school, and freedom to choose to be full-time students with better student funding, so that we get good students. The population also deserves to be allowed to show the power of action – the power of action, for example. to be allowed to start something of their own, to be entrepreneurs and to start business, and this without being taxed and regulated by a government that is terrified of the success of these entrepreneurs and – God forbid – actually earn money. Believe you can do in church, they say. But I choose to believe also outside God's house. I choose to believe in the individual's ability to govern himself and his life, I choose to believe that through security and freedom they take the choices that are right for themselves and theirs, and believe that showing the power of action provides just security, and gives just the freedom of the individual to govern his life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5158	The President makes it clear that it is normal to believe that using the word of our Lord in this context is not good parliamentary practice. We're going to have to deal with earthly arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5161	The voters will meet two clear options in the big elections next year. A government of the Right and Advance Party that will make rich municipalities richer and poorer municipalities poorer, or a red-green government that includes the Centre Party, where the revenues of municipalities are smoothed so that all citizens are guaranteed equivalent services, and businesses are to be guaranteed equal opportunities. The progress and the right will transfer 11 million. kr from the framework grant to municipalities for the introduction of municipal corporation tax. This will result in significant redistribution effects between pre-tax weak and tax-rich municipalities. Right will go further, I see of their proposal for the program for the next magnification period. They are committed to further penalisation of low-tax municipalities by reducing inter-municipal income. Nine out of ten municipalities get losers when well two billion. kr shall be moved. The right-wing welfare of the inhabitants of 380 of our municipalities is justified by the fact that they want to stimulate the creation of values. In the Centre Party, we share the desire to stimulate value creation, but the municipalities do not create entrepreneurs and new jobs through poorer municipal economy. The right-hand proposals for the distribution of taxes will lead to municipalities fighting to conquer the already tax-intensive inhabitants and businesses. It's not innovation policy that stimulates the right, but a scheme to grab those who've already gotten over their knees and generate huge profits. The centre party has contributed to a reduction in the income gap between municipalities by the red-green government. Today the municipalities are allowed to retain 40 pst. of own tax revenue and corporation tax is State. The revenues for the rest of the country are distributed again in transfers according to the expenditure needs of the school, the care of the elderly and other tasks assigned to the municipalities. Right wants municipalities to keep 50 pst. of tax revenue and 4,25 pst. of corporation tax. My southern community is one of the many who will lose and have to reduce the well-being of the population considerably and have reduced opportunities to stimulate economic development and badly needed jobs. Your right application layout is a little thoughtful. Enterprises in the start-up phase usually lose little and may need ten years to deliver profits for taxation. There are municipalities with established enterprises and host municipalities for head offices that run away with Røjre's redeployed tax money. Therefore, the Right’s policy will prevent, not stimulate, increased value creation in the municipalities that need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5174	Obviously, there are many representatives from the government parties who are on a slightly different planet and have been given the task of boasting of the year’s budget without hindrance – including within the transport budget. But during a meeting of the KS in the Church after the government budget was presented, they told us a completely different truth. There was no one – I repeat: none – of the present rapporteurs from the Labour Party or other parties who came with anything but the slaughter of the entire transport budget for North Norway. In the year's budget, North Norway was deflected by less than 5 pst. of the transport budget – less than 5 pst. The population of the Nordic countries, Troms and Finnmark account for approx. 10 pst. by the population. Only on that basis should approx. 10 pst. of the totality landed in North Norway. In addition, if you take the areas of the northernmost states and the number of kilometres of road sections that are there, maybe the appropriations for transportation would be close to 13, 14 or 15 pst. At the same time, it is a paradox that the government's Northern Territory bet has now received a shot for the bow and has been baptized to the North Word bet, because there is no credibility in what this government claims to do and what they de facto deliver. The Progress Party has entered into its budget for North Norway with funds for the launch of a number of projects that the government has pushed out in time. This applies not only to road development, safety and race protection, but also to aerodrome development and in-road. This year's budget is to keep North Norway a fool. I also see that the government in its election strategy claims that the Progress Party will sell power companies and our legacy silver. It then seems reasonable that the Workers' Party sells the inheritance silver so it laughs through the sale of one third of the hydroelectric power companies in Troms Kraft to Swedish interests. The advance party fights against both in the town of Tromsø and in the state of Tromsø. But perhaps we should better interpret it positively, because it will be far more difficult for the Centre Party to get political election support in the million-dollar class from Eidsiva and Troms Kraft, which can get Swedish owners, than it was when they were owned by Tromsø and Troms County. So if it's never that wrong, it's usually good for something.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5185	This debate is becoming more and more evident in the blocks of the political landscape. The Labour Party will ensure that the people's resources are under the people's ownership. It was a great victory in this period of government when we guaranteed the right of repatriation, which ensured that public ownership existed and continued. The natural resources belong to the people and cannot be sold forever and to private or foreign actors. Locally and nationally, the Right Party and the Advance Party have been in the business of selling people's resources. In its proposal for a programme, the right of repatriation will be removed. It says: ‘Private and municipal owners of hydropower resources should be treated in the same way as the State as owner. It is therefore necessary to amend the rules on withdrawal’. The Progress Party in its programme proposal says that they have no counter-representation against private ownership where appropriate. The party considered appropriate in other policy areas is that private individuals should be allowed to make profits at the expense of public services and the interests of the community, such as health, school, etc., only to mention something. The right to return was introduced at the beginning of the 20th century. In other words, the removal of it now means that the Right Party and the Advance Party will open up the sale of power resources for the century. I don't think the Norwegian people have taken this into account, but I think there's going to be an incredibly important issue in the election campaign. Work for everyone has always been the top priority of the Workers' Party, and it is still. In troubled economic times, safe governance and order in the economy are crucial to ensuring people's work and well-being. It's not obvious when we look around. In Spain, one in four are unemployed, and half of all Spanish youth are unemployed. A whole generation can risk not coming to work. In Italy, the fear of the euro crisis has flared up again, and in Greece, the treasury is empty. In Sweden, they also face the challenge of high and persistent youth unemployment in the Swedish labour market, which includes them between 16 and 24 years of age. In February 2012, the total number of young people unemployed was 25.2 p.m. This represents approx. 160 000 Swedish young people without a job. In addition, tens of thousands of Swedish young people have traveled from Sweden to Norway to get a job. In Norway, the unemployment rate is approx. 3 pst., but youth unemployment is about 8.5 pst. If all Swedish youth working in Norway had travelled home, Swedish youth leave would have passed 30 pst. Or maybe more. The bourgeois policy in Sweden has not worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5205	It seems that there are many workers' party representatives who want to discuss with their own image of the Right. That's what they're allowed to do. I have to say that when I hear a lot of talk about investment, I wonder if you have blindfolds. The NHO has today presented new investment figures, and investment in the mainland industry excluding oil is at its lowest level of 40 years – 40 years! And it's the industry that's going to invest for the future to meet the cost level that the red-greens have put on us, with 160 pst. in relation to our trading partners. So when Lundtigen talks about a balanced development, I wonder who's been running the last seven years. I have to admit my sin: if we are to meet this challenge, I have faith that the only thing that really manages to meet it is a strong, diverse, private and local ownership that has local identity, that invests resources in creating future jobs in the districts, and that has a relationship out there that is quite valuable. I hear the need for counter-current policy – we are talking about the fact that seed funds are a counter-current of 8 billion. kr withdrawn from business each year, from the capital of business, to meet the challenges we face. It's almost as if you don't think it's true. But I notice that you're holding onto the simple rhetoric. You don't answer the challenges. Why does the Workers' Party discriminate against Norwegian jobs owned by Norwegians? Why do you discriminate for the benefit of foreigners, and do the Workers' Party really think that local ownership has no significance for where the value creation is going to take place? Why, then, do they insist that national ownership of larger enterprises in Norway is important precisely because it is important to have head offices in Norway? I just thought it was justified that having a relationship with Norway is important also for where development is going to take place. Finally, I notice that the Micaelsen talked about removing the shielding deduction as a business enemy, and that it created bias. The very taxes on wealth are, of course, a distortion. It is taxation of already taxed capital. It's taxation of saving, and it's a tax that forces people to make dividends to cover the tax. If you remove the screen saver, you decide for yourself. If you don't take dividends, you don't pay that much of the tax, or you don't get that much load. Here's something that really stalls, and I have to say that I'm deeply concerned, with the background of NHO's new numbers today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5220	When I hear the representative Erling Sande out in his post about the inequalities among the bourgeois parties, it's almost as if you don't believe what you're talking about. The question is, what would make all of these parties as clinient as the expectations he expressed? Or has it become so in collaboration in the red-green government, that these merge completely, so that the centre party and the Sande have become quite a few in the agricultural settlement? Or does that mean that Sande is satisfied with the government's policy when it comes to motor travel in the outland? Or does that mean that Sande is completely satisfied with the predatory settlement? Or does that mean that Sande is completely satisfied with the government's refusal to reduce the tax on working capital? Or is it party leader Navarsete's statement as debt? I'm just asking. When one listened to Erling Sande's post, one would think that it was expected a collaboration that made one not see the difference between any of these parties, and we understand it then so that it has become so in the red-green government. And especially from the Center Party: This is the government party that has spent seven years – and four government councils – on going from yes and no and yes to no when it involves an energy message that everyone in the business and labour world is asking for. I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5229	There have been several contributions from the Workers' Party today on the right of repatriation and the importance of public ownership of power resources. Most of them are based on misunderstanding of what is Right's policy, and although several other speakers from the Right's in the course of the debate have tried to inform the representatives of the Workers' Party about this, the false claims are repeated – now last by the representative Tor-Arne Stroem. He also made the rather strange claim that the red-green government had guaranteed the right to fall back. Well, the red-green government abolished the right to fall back in 2008, with the exception of the small percentage of Norwegian power still owned by the Norwegian power-intensive industry, about 5 pst. What also surprised me was Martin Kolberg's historyless article on this topic. Those of us who live in states where the powerful industry is still the most alive and an important part of the community, would not recognize us in Kolberg's description, where he described that the historically important thing has been public ownership. No, the historical importance has been that the Norwegian power-intensive industry has had long-term access to power, which has provided the basis for further processing of power in Norway. This is what is at risk if you are unable to find solutions such as: Norwegian Hydro may still have access to long-term power on Karmøy. There will then be no new investments in the plant at Karmøy. Major Norwegian industries and jobs will be lost. The type of production will move abroad, where it will be based on highly polluting power. What's history is that we've been able through history to further refine the power to also become jobs in Norway. The red-green policy will mean that Norway will become a commodity exporter in this area too, without a basis for local jobs. But the Right insists that we should ensure public ownership of power, but we must also have a system that ensures that the Norwegian power-intensive industry, which creates jobs based on power, also has long-term access to power. It has not been solved by this government, but there is going to be a new government to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5238	When it comes to the last speaker and the community's control of the water power resources, you can choose to listen to what is being said here now, or you can choose to look at what was done the last time you talked about the matter in the Storting. And I must admit that I have chosen to look at what suggestions and voting right and the Progress Party had in the hall that time, and that was the basis for my post. It's the representative Grimstad that makes me take the floor again, because I don't want to be misunderstood: I never said that it's a goal that the opposition party should be the same. I would point out that several representatives from the opposition have gone to the pulpit today and tried to give it the impression. One agrees on so much, but when one looks behind the numbers, it is typical that one agrees, is to ask the government for new messages in different areas of policy – not to promote an alternative policy, but to ask the government to submit messages, whether they are about a national plan for hydropower, wind power, waste and the like. But when you're going into the essence of things, it turns out that this boast of being that same, does not reach. So, the boat isn't praying. There is too much gap between the opposition party in important areas. The representative Grimstad gave two good examples of this – the predatory settlement and motor travel in the field. Here, the differences are greater among the opposition parties than among the positions. So these are two great examples of just that. I'm not saying that the opposition party needs to be the same, but I'm saying that the day one is going into a government, one has to come to this room with common proposals. Then one must have spoken in a row, and then my daring claim would be that it is an advantage not to make the final point in the political dossiers one should make common proposals about in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5245	Let me just say first to the last speaker that the bourgeois parties have today presented 13 points on a new health policy in which to raise the weakest. And when it comes to emerging with cracking points of view and extremes, there may well be hardly any more extreme points than the Workers' Party and the Centre in a number of questions. I record many of the speakers of the Workers' Party going up to the pulpit in turn and in order and telling how frightened you are over the Right. What must frighten the representatives of the Workers' Party is the sight of their own up-to-date scare images. That's what must scare the Workers' Party people. When you talk about – whether it is – hydropower, municipal economy and tripartite cooperation, and the point by point is rejected, the Workers' Party's people go up and tell you how scared you are. And most of all, Lise Christoffersen, who said that she was "afraid" of Erna Solberg wanting a completely different society. Where does the Workers' Party take it from? What Erna Solberg said in the debate was that much is good in Norway, but the differences in school are increasing, the number of young people who are disabled goes up and the number of people with disabilities in work goes down, and there is a direction the right does not want to be on. That is what Mrs Solberg said in the debate. One would almost think that the Workers' Party had had an army of information and studied American election campaigns. Right does not want an Americanized election campaign in Norway; we want a decent Norwegian election campaign in Norway. So to Martin Kolberg, who, together with – or perhaps separately – Eva Kristin Hansen is lying and worried at night about the Right View of the Rule of Action. It is no more than 12 days since the Stortinget dealt with a major issue about the rule of action, and Right and I provided a strong defence for the management of Norwegian oil wealth and the rule of action – and not only about the restriction of oil money use, but also about how to use oil money – and there the bourgeois parties were united. Let me just point out that ten months before the 2005 Grand elections, the Central Party parliamentary leader said that the rule of action is a ‘no substance’ and SV was sceptical of a square rule in which the implementation of financial policy is to be linked to the development of international capital markets. It is not that the red-greens agreed on everything – rather on the contrary. Now we see that on many of the points where we agreed before the 2005 elections, we are now talking – whether about the EEA Agreement, NATO membership or how high the tax level will be in the future. This debate has been interesting, because the bourgeois parties have collectively talked about how to raise those who sit at the bottom of the table, while the red-greens are most occupied by those who sit at the top of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5258	I think this has been a good, healthy and partly intense debate, and although not all of us have used all the tools in the toolbox, as other representatives have done from this pulpit, I think many of the points have nevertheless emerged. What is striking, however, is the tone of the last speaker — ulceration, ‘mortality’ — about being put to the wall and held responsible for what is proposed in different areas. I have to say that I never stop to be surprised that some opposition parties – and especially the Right, who are now surfing high on polls – after so many years of a little, what to say, fog trends around the opposition's overall policy, are now being challenged concretely on a number of issues. Then everything goes in black. There's no way of how sad and how sad we get when we're challenged on concrete issues. Let me mention some ratios. Truer mentions that there was not always agreement on the red-green side before the 2005 elections – that is quite right. But what is different is that the Workers' Party had – and we still have today – a strong defence that the use of oil money should be responsible and in line with what a broad majority in the Stortinge has agreed on with regard to the rule of action. What is also striking is that Sanner refers to the debate we had last week. Well, it was a pleasant presentation of the Right message, but not a single critical word to the partner Progress Party, who, in my view, will break the line of economic policy and ridicule the proposal, ridicules both the views of the Right and the Labour Party on the use of oil money. And what do we hear from the Right? Nothing. I think that's quite special. And I say it again: I agree with Martin Kolberg that it would be inconceivable for the Workers' Party to go into a government in 2005 if we had not been able to clarify some of these matters: the tax level, the rules of action, the use of oil money and a number of these important foreign issues. As far as taxes are concerned, it is incomprehensible to me how the poor in Norway are to be saved by removing 15.5 billion. kr from the joint fund, recreate the zero or minimum taxpayer and create greater differences in the Norwegian society – listen to the husband! How is it possible to imagine that the richest should not contribute in the same way as they have done so far, saving the poor? I understand that this is uncomfortable for the Right, and I understand that when you have spent seven years in opposition with seminars in the Storing Group and asked a number of questions to the Ministry of Finance about how to get around this, and not getting any closer, it is unpleasant to be confronted with this again. But it must be tolerated by representatives from the Right and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5273	I think we've heard a pretty angry article here, and then you accuse others of being angry – I just don't understand that. The representative Kolberg stressed earlier today that he can hear, and that he can read, but what he lacks is the will to understand. And that's what's been the review tone in a lot of this debate, that the opposition parties are held responsible for a policy they don't run, but that's intended to scare the voters into thinking that there's a cruel bunch of people in opposition. But let me just say once again that the Progress Party does not have a policy where we are going to sell the hydropower to the rest of the world. We haven't proposed it, it's not programmed. It is actually the red-green parties in Troms that are now selling parts of Troms Kraft to the Swedes, with a former Minister of Energy from the Center Party as head of the company. There's responsibility. Then a theoretical person can talk about other parties, but it's the red-green ones that sell power out of the country today. The Progress Party has not proposed the most in terms of tax relief to those who have the most already. It's just to see how we do it. We're increasing the bottom subtraction, we're increasing the minimum subtraction. It's good for ordinary people. Is it that hard to understand? We're not going to cut off the day-to-day pay system by reducing benefits, but we're going to take action for hospitals and in Nav, which means that fewer people will be recipients of day-to-day pay. Then you can also adjust the appropriations. And this is the exact same thing as the government itself suggested just eleven days ago, when it proposed cutting the daily allowance by 504 million. kr for the current year. Then we are not innocent again and say poor people who are unemployed, because we understand the context. I hope that the red-greens can be just as big back and see that when we cut in benefits, they can criticize us for it, but when we cut the need to actually bet in other areas, it's not the performance it goes beyond. The rule of action: Yes, the Progress Party will continue to say that the rulemaking of economic policy is not what brings Norway forward. Responsible priorities are what is important. A rule that says that there will be pressure in the Norwegian economy if NORAD invests more in wind turbines in Africa is just customs, while there is allegedly no pressure in the Norwegian economy if Statkraft receives the same money and builds wind turbines in Norway. That's the opposite. But this rule can't catch it. So it's not like if you build a road, it's going to be inflation, while if you invest in the oil, it's not going to be inflation. And it doesn't make sense for Norway to lend the oil money to Denmark to 1 pst. interest rate when we borrow back money from other countries to 2.5 pst. interest on road construction. Therefore, it is worth listening to the SSB when they say that the priorities and changes made by the Progress Party mean better economy in Norway, higher GDP, lower interest rates, lower inflation and higher employment. It's for the benefit of most people, it's for the benefit of the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5287	The President must draw attention to the fact that the concept of 'customs' has previously been stated not to be a parliamentary expression and hopes that it will gradually enter into force. The next speaker is no. 100, the representative Hans Olav Syversen, who continues on what is yesterday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5292	Thank you for that reminder. I basically noticed that when the committee leader made his contribution, we went over to a new day, and I felt that he used it well – a new day and new opportunities for new attacks. I'm going to try to limit myself, but it's been interesting to follow this debate, in the sense that the description of the position given by the opposition has broken up a lot. Some people claim that the opposition doesn't agree on anything, others are so scared that they don't get to sleep because the opposition stands together about so much terrible. So let me say this: the description of the opposition cracks at least more than the policy of the opposition parties – it must be my conclusion after having heard so many cracking posts from the position. The representative Micaelsen spoke of the right hearing as if they were hopeless – and those who know parliamentary history know that the «vonbrotten» is an expression closely related to the Christian People's Party. I can only confirm that the representative Sanner was far away from what we define as hopelessness in such a context. Finally, there have been many rounds around non-governmental organisations and cooperation between the public and those in the health and social sectors. I will now read the reply the Minister of Renewal has given to the undersigned, who shows why I said that it is a government that fails in this field and that does not spend the time as it should. I quote: ‘In recent years there has been growing criticism of the Norwegian procurement legislation. Criticism has to a large extent been directed at the strange rules, i.e. that part of the rules not resulting from Norway’s international obligations. The Government has therefore decided to set up a public body to review the curious part of the legislation and to assess the extent to which we should have such rules.» It is essentially the following to say – in good Norwegian: ‘I rest my case’. But as if that wasn't enough, one of the Eastfold representatives in the Workers' Party today went out in the local press and said the following: ‘We now have a note in place’ — it is in the Health Committee’s budget — ‘which sends a strong signal that we want a review of the whole drug field.’ This is based on how Health South-East has treated drug institutions. It says the Workers' Party itself, while we are discussing a drug report presented by the same government. That's good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5315	It was Mr. Sanner's speech that made me speak, because he concluded that the Right's draft budget was specially designed for those who sat at the bottom of the table. It is quite special to say for the party that both sucks in the u-help, to the poorest in the world, and has a direct proposal in this budget that takes a whole billion on an annual basis from the families of children in Norway who have one dependant and who have over two and a half times as high a risk as other families in order to end up in permanent poverty. With a simple proposal, this is about thousands of more children in a situation where parents are going to lose their income. I've been looking very carefully at the budget now to see if there's a single penny in there somewhere else that could compensate for this income, but on the Right's budget, there's zero in terms of redundancy payments, if you were to imagine that these were going there. So then it's probably social help they're going to be. It is a poor solution instead of being able to go on transitional benefits, fixed income for two years, and qualify, as the scheme is now, while the Right continues to repeat here in this hall that this is a passive benefit. No, in two years they have not been able to read that this scheme has been implemented, precisely so that these families, as more than anyone needs the lone provider to actually get to work, should be able to have a safe income while qualifying. That's actually the requirement now. Here, the Right removes one of the most important arrangements for the most vulnerable families, and with a pen stroke, the number of poor children increases by thousands.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5322	The representative of Solvik-Olsen said that I could read and hear, but that I had difficulty understanding. For my part, I can confess to the Stortinget that I do not have an official degree, but I understand politics relatively well. When I heard Solvik-Olsen's way of arguing, I sat in my seat and was reminded of a legendary Swedish finance minister named Gunnar Sträng. He also had no official exams, but he built the Swedish welfare society from the bottom up and made it one of the world's most advanced states. In a rather parallel situation as with Solvik-Olsen, but with a representative of the Swedish «right», Gunnar Sträng did an exercise that I will now also do for Stortinget. He took the harnesses like that, pulled them out, and then he said, "Should we continue with this pinexersis, or should we talk politics?" That's what this is about. It's about the policy and the seriousness of it, because it's something that has shaped the Norwegian big thing, and it's exactly that you've been very serious about keeping order in the Norwegian economy, regardless of blocks in many ways. The new thing in the situation is the Progress Party, which Right now invites into the coalition. That's scary, 'cause then you're rocking the boat. To the representative Sanner, I would say that I did not say – not – that I doubted the Right's view of the rule of action. I said it was very remarkable that neither Sanner nor any other representatives from the Right did not distance themselves from the Progress Party. That's what I said. He didn't now either. So the left-hand side is that the right-hand side doesn't want to do that. The Gundersen didn't, Sanner doesn't, Erna Solberg doesn't – nobody does. Then we know that. The very last thing I want to say, it's that when it comes to the claim of my historylessness in relation to power, the representative Höie knows very well, that without the public ownership of our power resources, we wouldn't be able to build the powerful industry. It's the one that's been the rootstock. That's what I said – and you're banging on that boat too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5335	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5338	I don't think there can be so many other people in Norway than Martin Kolberg and a handful of workers' big-time representatives who sleep poorly at night, considering that the Right will run the Norwegian economy. I think the Labour Party will have a rather heavy election fight if you intend to spend the next nine months convincing the Norwegian people that a government with the Right would put the Norwegian economy over. But let me say it this way: I want the Workers' Party to be happy if you're going to run an election campaign on it. Then I want to say to Karin Andersen that if I belonged to SV and a party that has been sitting and ruling for seven years, I would go a little bit quieter in the doors when it comes to combating poverty. Then I would go a little bit quieter in the doors, considering all those who are waiting in a queue in their care, and all those who have mental health challenges and don't get the help and support that they should have. I would go a little quieter in the doors of those matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5345	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5351	Then it looks like we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5366	A total of 70 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 6-57, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 58, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 59 and 60, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 61 to 70, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 61 to 70, from the left. Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration4 844 803 0002Family and consumer42 458 891 0003Culture8 896 975 0004External35 102 650 0005Justis22 938 593 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing16 820 9600007Work and social354 236 483 0008Defence36 974 556 0009Industry3 768 511 00010Fiskerry403 270 00011Agriculture16 137 273 00012Oil and energy-125 960 581 00013Environment4 826 507 00014Constitutional institutions1 795 807 00015Health145 768 686 00016Church, education and research57 575 442 00017Transport and communication41 801 458 00018Rame transfers etc. to the local government sector149 960 072 00019Simultaneous expenditure and income13 696 000 00020Financial administration, etc.32 783 666 00021Taxes, levies and duties-1 084 705 214 00022Distributions, etc.-29 673 055 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad 249 548 247 000» Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the revaluation of income for low-income households to receive child benefits higher than for high-income households.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget in 2013 with a case that ensures that Norway takes greater responsibility for international refugee work by increasing the quota for transfer refugees by 500.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government requests the prompt provision of relevant statistics on waiting times before and between job-oriented measures for people with disabilities and then submit a plan to reduce queues associated with waiting time.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: «The government is asked to change the minimum working time reduction in paragraphs 6 to 6 of the day-to-day pay regulation in order to retain the daily allowance rights from 50 pst. until 20 pst.» Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rules on rolling leave so that the company with an agreement between employees and employers pays only the employer’s period for the number of posts actually permitted.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of standard health notification periods according to the Swedish model.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a change in the employer’s co-financing of the sickness benefit scheme in the context of the revised national budget for 2013. A prerequisite for the changes shall be that the overall financial burden on employers does not increase.» Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review today’s support and subsidy schemes that are harmful to biodiversity and present a plan for the Storting on how to achieve Norway’s commitments in the CBD agreement by 2020 as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the scheme for the grant scheme to teachers in secondary school to provide a 50 pst offer. financing of teaching positions in low-teaching municipalities.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5626	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 59 and 60, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration4 945 603 0002Family and consumer43 383 991 0003Culture8 843 809 0004External35 371 450 0005Justis23 274 693 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing16 270 020 0007Work and social356 499 603 0008Defence37 067 155 0009Industry4 045 311 00010Fischery378 270 00011Agriculture16 348 073 00012Oil and energy-125 133 881 00013Environment4 673 507 00014Constitutional institutions1 846 807 00015Health145 860 970 00016Church, education and research56 564 219 00017Transport and communication41 299 258 00018Rame transfers etc. to the local government sector148 201 472 00019Simultaneous expenditure and income13 720 000 00020Financial administration, etc.33 125 666 00021Taxes, levies and duties-1 086 901 514 00022Distributions, etc.-29 539 355 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad 249 854 873 000» Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a case in good time before the revised National Budget for Improvements and a fully-fledged Emergency Network Implementation Plan in order to ensure sound development.’ V o t e r i n g: The proposals of the Christian People's Party were not accepted by 96 votes to 6. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.23.32]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e5825	There is a vote on proposal No. 58, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration4 356 803 0002Family and consumer42 821 591 0003Culture8 872 059 0004External33 604 450 0005Justis23 402 393 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing15 499 470 0007Work and social355 621 183 0008Defence37 632 355 0009Industry4 522 311 00010Fischery373 270 00011Agriculture14 540 673 00012Oil and energy-125 018 881 00013Environment4 452 507 00014Constitutional institutions1 801 807 00015Health151 077 570 00016Church, education and research56 366 919 00017Transport and communication42 290 658 00018Rame transfers etc. to the local government sector141 867 072 00019Simultaneous expenditure and income13 671 000 00020Financial administration, etc.32 973 666 00021Taxes, levies and duties-1 080 745 214 00022Distributions, etc.-30 317 855 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-250 334 193 000» V o t e r i n g: The proposal from the Right was not accepted by 84 votes to 18. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.23.48]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6019	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–57, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration4 624 556 0002Family and consumer42 045 031 0003Culture7 213 283 0004Foreign affairs27 578 575 6005Justis23 399 393 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing13 873 673 0007Work and social353 572 283 0008Defence38 052 155 0009Industry4 510 387 00010Fiskerry236 230 00011Agriculture10 835 740 00012Oil and energy-126 524 581 00013Environment4 402 202 00014Constitutional institutions1 816 807 00015Health147 633 570 00016Church, education and research55 729 713 00017Transport and communication44 760 858 00018Rame transfers etc. to the local government sector150 767 382 00019Simultaneous expenditure and income10 771 000 00020Financial administration, etc.32 089 316 00021Taxes, levies and duties-1 063 300 214 00022Distributions, etc.-28 515 355 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-244 427 995 400» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to move away as soon as possible from the framework funding and back to a financing model for kindergartens that ensures the units a real payment per user.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up new rules for the equivalent treatment of private and municipal kindergartens, which state that municipalities must comply with the principle of unit costs and that equivalent treatment must involve up to 100 pst. financing of private kindergartens as well.’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to regulate the rights of children in terms of price and index’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government of the next year’s government budget to submit proposals on normal business collection procedures for the NRK licence.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the television licence system.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the fragmentation and sale of the NRK in such a way as to achieve effective competition and achieve cultural policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit a case to phase out the press support.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide figures on the total costs of refurbishment and maintenance of our national cultural institutions.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to examine various aspects of the establishment of a private sector investment fund in developing countries and to come back to the matter in the context of the revision of the 2013 national budget.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of zero duty on imports of products from all developing countries on the OECD DAC list.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a ceiling on the proportion of the budget of civil society organisations that may come from the public.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish practices with independent evaluations of Norwegian aid and Norwegian aid projects.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to draw up plans for the phasing-out of Norwegian aid in beneficiary countries where appropriate.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to establish an independent database for the ranking of relief and relief organisations in relation to the achievement of results and cost-effectiveness.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to launch a pre-project for increased food security in developing countries through trade in food and cereals.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to actively combat discrimination against Israel in international forums and organisations.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the security mechanism in the GSP scheme.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the implementation of the temporary agency directive to be postponed until 1 July 2013.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes that ensure a special allowance of 85 pst for married/co-operative minimum pensioners. by G from 1 May 2013. ‘... Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a tightening-up plan and a legislative amendment that provides a special 1G supplement to all minimum pensioners, regardless of their civil status. It is requested that the escalation be started with effect from 1 May 2013 and runs for more than 3 years.’» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present to Stortinget the necessary legislative changes that will reduce the curtailment of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners from 15 p.m. to 10 pst. from 1 May 2013.’» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a degressive plan to remove the curtailment of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners within three years’.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit to the Storting the necessary legislative changes to bring the legislation on the system of leave back as it was before 1 January 2012.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government requests the termination of the waiting pay scheme for new cases from 1 January 2013.’» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a supervisory system for public acquisitions and to set up a selection to design proposals for more effective enforcement of the public acquisition rules.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The government is asked to propose an extension of the Argentum model with fund-in-fund investments to three new funds.» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the possibility of setting up one or more Structural Funds for a fund-in-fund solution which is managed professionally and which can contribute when Norwegian enterprises need increased capital strength.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a wide-ranging selection in order to carry out an evaluation of the functioning of the rules of procedure laid down in the 2004 Competition Act.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce simplified publication obligations when purchasing below the national tender threshold and to facilitate an effective, unbureaucratic national web-based structure for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the framework conditions of the fisheries and aquaculture industry with a view to better adapting them to a reality of open international competition and fluctuations in export opportunities.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget for 2013, to submit proposals for adjusting the fishing deduction to take account of the wage and price increase from the 2009 adjustment up to and including the spring 2013 salary statements.’; Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for the repeal of the law to promote the translation of agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of freely transferable milk production quotas.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the repeal of the law on concession by acquisition of real estate [[Concession Act]] Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the restrictions as regards the number of participants, the distance limit and the quota ceilings for dairy co-operatives.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the laws of the land with a view to modernisation and simplification.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to repeal the regulation of pig and poultry production.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for a change in the budgetary system so that the construction of infrastructure in the transport sector is treated as investment and not as annual expenditure, in order to ensure that the adopted national transport plan also includes multiannual financing decisions.’;» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a 100-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. crowns for the construction of continuous double-track sections Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Skien and Oslo-Lillehammer, as well as the crossing tracks for long freight trains, and the upgrading of other sections throughout the country.’;» Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to dispose of the ownership of Baneservice AS.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of ownership of NSB AS from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to merge the administration of road, rail, coastal and aviation routes into one Directorate.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of a case to establish the Riksvei SF as a new state enterprise to invest in new national road projects, equivalent to Statnett SF.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of a case to establish the Railway SF as a new State enterprise to invest in new railway projects, equivalent to the Statnett SF.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch an overall effort to develop large-scale transport projects to facilitate large international actors, using state regulation and full state funding.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to merge the different transport regulatory authorities of a State Transport Authority, which shall have total responsibility for supervision and control in the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement measures to reduce planning time and increase planning capacity for large transport projects, including the use of total enterprise prices.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case on how customs resources can be better used to stop organised smuggling at the border.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The size of the budget requires the government to review the limits on amounts and import restrictions in the case of border crossings with a view to simplifying the legislation.’;» The proposals of the Progress Party were rejected by 78 votes to 24. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.24.04]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6476	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to maintain a research fund according to the following model: within the State pension fund abroad, a research fund of at least 100 billion is earmarked. krones. [[SPU]] Each year the return may be equal to 4 pst. used for research purposes under the State budget. The guidelines for the use of research money are being continued, but it is assumed that green technology should be a priority area. Designation of the money shall not affect the management of the money in the SPU, but implies that the intention of the rules of action on the use of oil money is more fulfilled.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised 2013 national budget, to provide an updated forecast of future profits in Norsk Tipping AS, as well as an assessment of possible consequences and any compensation for the loss of revenue for the voluntary activity.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to maintain the gift enhancement scheme and to propose additional incentives to increase the proportion of private contributions to Norwegian research.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary changes to the State pension fund law, so that state pensioners who retired before 1 May 2000 are treated in the same way as other state pensioners. The entry into force of this amendment is 30 June 2013.’» The proposals of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left were not accepted by 54 votes to 48. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.24.24]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6709	There are 73 votes cast, and there is probably little compared to the number of Presidents who have the impression of being present in the Chamber, and who have previously voted, so for the sake of order, the President gives the opposition parties the opportunity to speak from if they are expected to vote against. The President is not familiar with it and expects a unanimous vote – and then we do it that way. No one has requested any other explanation of vote, and then the President proposes that we re-approve of the vote – although to the extent that 73/0 is a relatively clear decision. It's going to wrestle over you. V o t e r i n g: The opinion of the Committee on I was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6722	The secretary will definitely use the pre-button for all settings. So we take the previous vote again, and it automatically enters the Minutes. May those who were in favour of the setting - and are hopefully still in favour - please use the pre-button for I, which will be taken up for voting. V o t e r i n g: The opinion of the Committee on I was adopted by 102 votes to 0. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.26.24]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6733	That's what's in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6753	A total of 68 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1, 9 and 16-22, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 2 and 23, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left proposals No. 24 and 25, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 38, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 3, 4, 10, 11, 26–37 and 64, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, 39 and 40, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 41 and 42, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 5, 6, 12, 43 and 65, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 44 and 45, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 7, 13, 46–52 and 66, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 8, 14, 15, 53–63 and 67, by Borghild Tenden, on behalf of the Left, proposal No. 68, from Kristian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 68 has been surrendered after the deadline laid down in the Storting Rules of Procedure, but if there are no objections, voting will be raised. In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It is clear that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 23 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Decisions on the financial framework were taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will lapse because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. The following proposals are concerned: No 8, 14, 15, 58, 61 and 67, from Left. 7, 13, 46, 51, 52 and 66, from Christian People's Party No. 5, 12, 43 and 65, from Right 3, 10, 26, 28, 37 and 64, from the Party of Progress No. 17, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left No. 42, from Right and Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 54 to 57, 59, 60, 62 and 63, from the left. Proposal No. 54 sounds: «The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2013, to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a bill on the introduction of rules on the provision of a fund scheme for individual enterprises in accordance with the Swedish «expansion funds» scheme.» Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised state budget 2013, to investigate and promote legislative proposals for 20 p.m. tax deductions for personal, permanent investments in companies up to 500000 kroner.» Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the immediate termination of the duty-free arrangements for tobacco products.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend Regulation No 17 December 2008, No. 1502 to the Customs and Commodity Code [[Customs Code]] Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2013 revised national budget, to provide a tax credit scheme for energy efficiency improvement measures in private buildings of up to SEK 50000.’ [[material and labour costs]] Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asked to do so as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2013, to present the necessary legislative proposals to provide self-employed workers with a minimum deduction of NOK 100000 as an alternative to the right to deduct costs associated with the business.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draft and promote legislative proposals to remove the right to interest rebates on credit card debt as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2013.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate as soon as possible and to propose the introduction of an environmental tax on air travel to and from Norwegian airports according to the German model.’ The voting boards showed that 101 votes were cast against and 2 votes in favour of the Left's proposals. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.30.15]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6869	Sorry, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6874	Was the representative of the Red Isaacs supposed to vote correctly? Then we correct the votes, and the representative is registered with the counter-voice. The proposals from the Left are then 102 votes against 1 vote not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos 47 to 50, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that cheeses which present a potential competition challenge for Norwegian cheese producers are granted a percentage duty, while other cheeses are given a krone duty as at present’. Proposal No. 48 reads: ‘The government is asked to make proposals in the context of the revised national budget 2013 on tax exemptions for the gain on the voluntary or involuntary sale of land in agriculture in cases where the remuneration is used for reinvestments in agricultural holdings. This shall not apply to residential and leisure property.’;» Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose the introduction of a tax deduction and a compensation scheme for the value added tax incurred in the compulsory maintenance of privately owned saved buildings.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the VAT refund scheme for private individuals carrying out municipal statutory tasks is not tightened.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6908	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the income system for municipalities in order to stimulate municipalities to facilitate value creation. One element is to increase the proportion of municipal income derived from own tax revenue. At the same time, the minimum income guarantee for municipalities shall be retained in such a way that there will be no abrupt change from one year to another.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6923	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 44 and 45, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess the impact on Norwegian agriculture of increasing the limit on imports of beef and sheepmeat and lamb meat from Botswana, Namibia and Swaziland as a whole. 5 pst. and 10 pst. of the Norwegian market for these meat products.’» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes as soon as possible so that the Municipality of Oslo can impose a local fuel oil levy for a period of up to 6 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6945	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Ministry of Finance asks the Ministry of Finance to repeal the second paragraph of § 9-3-3 of the FSFIN.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6962	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39 and 40, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that working capital is not taxed’. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the limit of duty-free imports of goods is raised to 400 kroner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e6984	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 11, 27 and 29–36, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government asks the government to change the weight of the municipalities to zero when borrowing so that municipalities can borrow at a lower rate.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the procurement processes are professionalised so that the public can see the savings in the Menon Business Economics report ‘Value of enhanced competence in public procurement processes’.’» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a schedule of closures for customs duties on textiles. The plan is presented to the Stortinget during the first half of 2013.’» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the gradual winding-up of the annual fee.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that, in the event of late payment, fees and interest rates do not exceed normal late payment charges and interest rates in the ordinary market.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a plan to phase out the fee on boat engines.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to design the legislation so that small bakeries and pastries do not pay a levy on chocolate and confectionery products for products used in their production of goods.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a plan to wind up the document fee.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend Regulation No 17 December 2008, No. 1502 to the Customs and Commodity Act § 5-9-1 based on an increase of the customs duty-free import limit of goods to NOK 1000.» Proposal No. 35 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a price adjustment mechanism for the amount and to introduce a system allowing consumers to pay VAT on their own.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to abolish unnecessary customs duties as soon as from 2013.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7053	There is a vote on proposal No. 68, from the Progress Party. This proposal has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to start its work of abolishing withholding taxes on Norwegian pensioners abroad, and to ensure, as soon as possible, that the unfairness of the tax authorities towards them, through, inter alia, demanding documentation requirements, ceases.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7070	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a tax deduction scheme for documented costs related to energy efficiency measures in owner-occupiers, a so-called EnergieFunn scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7087	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24 and 25, from the Party of Prosperity, the Christian Party, and the Left. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review in more detail the rules of the VAT Act on the withdrawal of services for private use and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for regulatory changes as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2013.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to improve the information contained in the tax lists so that it can also show for each person which company tax is paid in relation to the individual’s investment and to show a more complete picture of the individual’s tax contribution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7109	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 23, from the Party of Advancement, right and left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In 2013, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs may offer grants to municipalities which meet on a voluntary basis, up to 250 million. krones. The means shall be used for infrastructure measures capable of offsetting any adverse consequences of bundling.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce the Unremunerated Research Effort Scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7132	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 9, 16 and 18-22, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that non-property tax municipalities are not penalised financially for this by the granting of discretionary means.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of neutral VAT in the country and health care businesses which ensure the neutrality of competition between self-production and private purchases.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked to promote a case where the impact of the property tax on the level of investment, the equity situation and access to capital is put at the centre of the focus. The relocation of capital from Norway and the loss of business environments as a result are of course part of such a review. The matter shall also present a strategy for strengthening Norwegian private ownership.’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asked to raise the wage and salary obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to NOK 8 000 per employee.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to raise the own-executed and externally purchased R & D limit to 8 and 12 million respectively. crowns, and the establishment of an indexation scheme for those amounts each year.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate how the Tax Fund Scheme can be set up in order to contribute better to research and development also for larger enterprises.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the Tax Funding Scheme by removing the rule of a maximum hourly rate of 530 kroner.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the Tax Find Scheme by removing the rule that staff and indirect costs limit the number of hours for its own employees to a maximum of 1850 hours per year. years.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7185	We must now vote on the framework areas. As the President has explained, divergent proposals in the framework areas have disappeared. This applies to both the frame area 18 and those that come after.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7413	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7428	It is votted over the frame area 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7579	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e7592	It is votered over Framework Areas 21, I – X. Here we make the total tax and tax decisions, and we vote together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e13630	The President also assumes here that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e13643	It is then votrated over Framework Areas 22, I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e14069	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e14086	A total of 70 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 10, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 11 and 12, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, on the Right and Left proposals No. 13 and 14, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15-18, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Proposals No. 19 and 20, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 21-26, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 27, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 28–39, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 40–42, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 43–50, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 51 to 70, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left In order to reduce the number of votes, the President will propose a unified voting order. This means that if minority proposals fall, then the proposers will support the vote. This has been discussed in advance with the proposers. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against any party on a later occasion. We're only going to vote for all of the minority proposals, where we start with the smallest fraction. The motion for a resolution is then put to the vote, where the President will first address the paragraphs which different fractions want to vote against. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution, which is supposed to be adopted unanimously. Finally, it is voted over the title of the laws and the laws in their entirety. – No objections have been raised to this, and this will be the case. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 51 to 70, from the left. Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e14660	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 43-50, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose the introduction of an activity tax for the financial sector.’.» Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e14860	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 40-42, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 40 sounds: «Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e14987	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28 to 39, from the right. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15307	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15369	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21–26, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on income and wealth are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15535	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the right, the Christian people's party, and the left. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘Law No. 19 June 2009 58 on value added tax is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15614	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–18, from the Advance Party and the Left. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘Law No. II, 17 June 2005 67 on the payment and collection of tax claims are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15724	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with an analysis of the consequences of discrimination between the State and private individuals who have evolved in terms of the value added tax on hunting. All low-productive areas, whether State-owned, directly or indirectly owned or privately owned, are proposed exempt from property tax and tax.» Proposal No. 14 reads: 'I Act No. 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15763	President! My vote was not recorded at the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15768	Then I hope we can fix it manually, and that it will be put to the Minutes. We're going to register it, and we're going to have to sort that out later. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Party of Advancement, right and left. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to return to the Storting appropriately with a case of property tax and where a person limits the adverse effects of property tax on competitive business and employment.» Proposal No. 12 reads: 'Il Law No. 4 March 1983 No. 3 on government officials, etc. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15867	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the tenth paragraph of Section 18-3 is replaced by the following: of production in power stations with generators which in the year of income have a total stamped value less than 10000 kVA, the basic interest income is not determined.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e15895	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–9, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e16984	Paragraphs 9 to 2 are first added to B, II and C. 4 last sentence. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e16999	The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 4-10 is then added to the third sentence of Section E, IV. The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e17013	It's going to be over A, D, F, G and H, and the rest of B, C and E.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e17023	So we're going to vote over the title of the law and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e17033	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-27.ana.ud834e17100	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
