ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e88	Honourable co-representatives! Former High Representative for the Right, Kristian Lund, is dead – 80 years old. He was born on February 12, 1932, in Furnes, Hedmark. After graduating from Artium he began at the Falskolan for the Army's relationship and in engineering studies. He became an engineer in telecommunications in 1958. He supplemented his knowledge of telecommunications through special education in the EDB – at the time a fairly new subject area – both in the United States and Norway. Later he took the pedagogical seminary. Kristian Lund served as an officer in the Army's relationship. He was a teacher in electronics and computer science at the Army's technical college. For his efforts, he received the Army Service Medal and the Defense Medal with a star. Kristian Lund was a member of the local government of Lillehammer from I971 to 1975 and a member of Oppland County from 1971 to 1983. Up to 198l he was the Right Group Leader and also a member of the County Committee. Between 1973 and 1977, Kristian Lund was the second alternate for the Right. He was elected as Permanent Representative of Uppland from 1981 to 1985. He was a member of the Social Committee during his great period. Kristian Lund was elected as a member and vice-chairman of the Riksrevision in the years 1986 to 1994. He was an I.T. Special Advisor and later became Sales Manager in IBM. At the same time, he continued his political and social commitment in a number of areas. He was, among other things, member of the local council of Lillehammer, head of Oppland Right and thereby a member of the central government of Højre. He also became the head of the regional higher education board for Uppland. Kristian Lund worked in the Reserve Bank of the East and in the Reserve Bank NOR. Kristian Lund was not among those who created riots around their own person. The many and varied trusts nevertheless show that his stillness did not prevent people from discovering his many qualities. His work on the Storting was also marked by thoroughness, expertise and not least kindness. Many people in Stortinget have good memories of Kristian Lund. We remember Kristian Lund for his work on the Great Council and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e107	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e110	On behalf of myself, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and Per Arne Olsen, I am delighted to propose to remove the fee on boat engines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e115	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e129	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from the Minister of Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e140	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a broad and good presentation. The situation in many European countries is a source of deep concern: the high unemployment rate in many countries, the high youth unemployment rate, the lack of economic growth, the social problems growing in several of the countries, and the political developments in countries where people turn to the political extremes of anger and despair. The measures put in place by EU cooperation have undoubtedly contributed to the situation not even worse: new monitoring mechanisms for financial institutions, the IMF complementing support fund and the financial pact. I recently attended a group leader's meeting among the social democratic parties in Europe. The position was clear: they wanted no less the EU, they wanted more – an EU that also supports a policy that combines the need for budgetary balance with growth-enhancing measures. Without EU cooperation, the financial crisis would hit the European countries even harder. It is in those days that 20 years have passed since the signature of the EEA Agreement. The agreement has been flexible and continuous through the extensive changes that have taken place in EU cooperation since 1994. The most important thing: the EEA Agreement has given Norwegian industry predictability and security in our largest and most important export market. The European investigation confirms that the integration into the internal market has made a substantial contribution to the strong economic growth we have had over these years. The EEA Agreement ensures that Norwegian industry is not discriminated against in the fight against customers. We have benefited from the general harmonisation of the legislation contained in the agreement. The agreement has provided a basis for comprehensive labour migration, particularly after 2004, which has contributed to our strong economic growth. Participation in the internal market has contributed to the modernisation of the Norwegian economy. EU integration has also strengthened the position of workers in several ways. Norwegian workers have had a stronger real wage trend than workers in other countries. In some areas, EU rules have given Norwegian workers better protection and stronger rights, such as: in the case of business transfer, equal opportunities and participation. The EEA Agreement means that we import legislation that the EU countries adopt for the internal market. It's the obligations in the agreement. There has been little political dispute over the new rules. They are generally considered to be both sensible, good and desirable. Of the 287 decisions taken in the Grand Duchy on new agreements or legislative changes, 265 have been unanimous. In cases where the rules do not take sufficient account of specific circumstances in Norway, we will be adjusted. It has happened in 50-60 cases. One example is lower renewable energy requirements in the context of the renewable directive, because our share is already high, thanks to hydropower. An investigation on alternatives to the EEA Agreement has been submitted. That's good for the debate. But there is one ongoing weakness of these options. They are based on the belief that Norway can have an agreement with 27, soon to 28, European countries, which means that we can get the benefits of market access, but at the same time we have to choose which of the rules to follow, or ignore. This may be a sign of great self-confidence, but it is not realistic. It is enough to point out the problems Switzerland has in getting new agreements, because they are not willing to implement the common legislation satisfactorily. They are not willing to have a monitoring body like our ESA and are not willing to have a court to settle disputes. It's like thinking that Norway is going to participate in the next football-EM, if we demand that the off-site rule doesn't apply to us, and that we can use our hands within the 16-meter resistance, if we think it's necessary. If you want an agreement with EU countries that respects Norwegian economic interests as well as the EEA Agreement, there are no alternatives to the EEA Agreement other than full membership. However, what this alternative investigation points to, and the European investigation also points out, is that the EEA Agreement provides a greater scope for action in order to safeguard our interests than we have now. That's a good input. The action room has been used. We have had adjustments in more than 50 cases where Norwegian conditions are not well enough caught up in the common legislation, because we are not included when the rules are adopted. But here we can and should be better, as the Foreign Minister also warned in his presentation. Over these 20 years, EU cooperation has developed dramatically in depth. The number of Member States has ranged from 12 to almost 28. It has expanded to many new areas. It affects almost all areas of society, including ours, to which the European investigation points. Several changes create specific challenges for our form of agreement. EU countries are increasingly developing policies and legislation through overall strategies. It blurs the boundaries between what falls within the EEA Agreement and what falls outside the EEA Agreement. One example is Europe 2020, where in the myriad of actions and projects contained therein it is demanding to see what is EEA-relevant and what is not. The European Parliament has gained greater power, an agency of the EEA Agreement does not provide us with a formal channel. Cooperation between national parliaments and the European Parliament is now developing, not only through permanent conferences, such as COSAC. Closer cooperation between the European Parliament and national parliaments is also being developed through consultations on specific issues, written recordings and conferences. This cooperation must be an ambition for EFTA countries to take part. 14 days ago there was a meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committee between the EFTA countries and the European Parliament in which we discussed these issues. In the resolution of the sitting, we ask that the parliaments of the EFTA countries be linked to this parliamentary cooperation. The resolution also supports the request that our Grand President has sent to Commissioner Malmström and the President of the European Parliament that Norway, as a member of Europol and Eurojust, should be included in the parliamentary body to be set up to ensure parliamentary control of these important policy areas. We are welcomed by the Members of the European Parliament, but it has not been given that the Commission considers this to be natural, based on the two-pillar system on which the EEA Agreement is based. So there's a job to do here. Hopefully, the decision on our participation with four observers in the parliamentary body to follow the foreign and defence cooperation in the EU will create a precedent. It is important to stress that one thing is to have access to cooperation between the European Parliament and the national parliaments. Another thing is that this access has to be used – by us. Invitations must be used. We need to pay more attention to the policy design in Brussels if we are to have the ambition to influence – in order to better safeguard our own interests. At the same time, we are now receiving new proposals for directives and other political documents on our table, along with our colleagues in the EU countries. But it doesn't help much if we don't read them and don't debate them. Here I think we all have to admit that we have an improvement potential. Finally, EEA funds are an important contribution to balancing the economic and social differences in Europe. They shall contribute to the development of the beneficiary countries in important areas, economic and democratic. But they can also contribute to stronger cooperation between us and the recipient country. It can have a self-enhancing effect in terms of increased trade, increased investment, etc. But I think we can do more to make these contributions visible in the recipient countries. A Polish EU parliamentarian pointed out at the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committee that he saw the EU flag everywhere in his home country, linked to projects the EU has been involved in financing. But he never saw any Norwegian flag. His call was: you have to make what you contribute, better visible. I think that's a good advice. A good idea is also the proposal of the Advisory Committee to prepare an information offensive in EU countries for the 20th anniversary of the entry into force of the EEA Agreement in 2014. It is important to remember that Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are fully involved in the internal market. As time passes, fewer and fewer EU institutions, not to mention EU countries, business, government and most people, remembering that EU cooperation actually includes the remaining EFTA countries. During the COSAC meeting in Warsaw in the autumn of 2011, a meeting where the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and the undersigned were present, High Representative Lady Ashton, when she saw the list of participants, asked: What are these Northmen doing here? Are they here because of July 22nd? It illustrates the need to remind many people that we are involved in most of what is happening in EU cooperation, and such an information campaign about the EEA Agreement could therefore be a contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e195	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough presentation on important EEA and EU issues. At a time of financial turmoil and instability in several EU countries, one can quickly be led to believe that these countries will be unimportant in the future and that the EU is irrelevant to Norway. Such a performance does not contribute to the protection of Norwegian interests. The EU with its Member States will continue to be our main partner in the vast majority of key areas. The size shall soon have an in-depth discussion of the EEA Agreement and its challenges, and alternatives will certainly be proposed. This will be an important debate, but it will not change any of our geopolitical challenges. They remain the same, no matter how we organise cooperation with the EU. Therefore, it is important to have a constant and strong focus on close cooperation on some strategic, important issues and to contribute to the areas in which Norway is good. The fact that there is a difficult time in Europe is nothing to discuss – that is a fact. Still, the situation is unclear in some countries, even after the elections, unfortunately, as we see now in Greece. The 2008 financial crisis is still not over in southern and eastern Europe, and new challenges await euro cooperation, I am afraid. On the news last Sunday we saw a Spain where government employees had not been paid for six months, and where people in work must have help from family and friends. The range of economically disadvantaged countries is getting longer and longer, and even more will come. The greatest danger of the economic crisis in Europe is youth unemployment, as I have pointed out both here and in Strasbourg in the past. In several countries, youth unemployment now exceeds 40pst, and there is a lot — a lot. Not only do you train youth for leisure, but you take from them the hope of a future. Many young people have been asked, in Greece, Spain and countries such as Serbia and Bosnia, about their view of the future. What's ominous is that they don't have anything. Nor do they believe that politicians can sort things out and get these countries out of the economic wave valley. They have not only lost faith in the future, they have also lost faith in democracy, and with hopelessness comes a quick desire for change. That is what we see in several countries, that extreme parties on both the right and the left have footholds and grow large enough to be represented in parliaments. With the attitudes of these extreme parties, it can quickly be triggered by violence. Fear is the mother of all violence, and fear of not having a future can trigger violent reactions from a hopeless youth. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that we cannot afford to have an entire generation of young people without a job and without a future. I very much agree with him, also in what he says about economic growth. But to achieve growth there must be stability, which is currently lacking in several countries in Europe, countries that might have needed economic growth most. We had four and not three elections in Europe on May 6, if you count with Armenia. Armenia is probably the country where the elections did not comply with the democratic standards to which we are accustomed. Unfortunately, the country has a piece to go to live up to the democratic principles. In the case of Serbia, which was also in the hands of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, an exciting second round of presidential elections has emerged. Two candidates seem to be fighting about the presidential chair, the same two that struck about it in 2004 and 2008, and that Tadic won each time, with very little margin. What surprises me is that our Prime Minister expresses concern that Tadic will lose this election in a week. So much did he worry that on Saturday he chose to bring representatives of Telenor and go to Serbia to throw shine, to better the chances of Tadic to win. I hope this does not mean that the Prime Minister has not intended to have the same good cooperation with any new President in Serbia. Many people are concerned about developments in Hungary, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out quite correctly. The Council of Europe is so concerned that they have chosen to open their own case against Hungary. This is most likely to be debated during the June session. It should be noted that Hungary has been in contact with the Venezia Commission, and the changes that have been made should be taken into account, provide an opinion on the consequences and the changes that should be adopted. But here you see with all clarity what danger extreme parties can be, only they become big enough. Unfortunately, in too many of the new democracies, they are violating universal human rights: Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Romania, Hungary and Bosnia, to name a few. Rights being broken are innumerable: violations of freedom of expression, violations of assembly rights, violations of rights because of religion, race and sexual orientation, and many more. In Azerbaijan, oppositionals and journalists are imprisoned to be critical of what exists. In Ukraine, we have Julia Timoshenko, who until recently had not received the necessary medical treatment, and one might well ask if she has had a fair trial, too, when you know the justice system in Ukraine. In Romania — and, to a large extent, elsewhere — the Roma are deprived of their rights, persecuted and harassed in their own country, and in Bosnia ethnic minorities are not allowed to vote. So in Europe, there is still a long way to go. It is therefore important that in all the international and bilateral forums Norway shows a clear view of violations of universal human rights. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the world needs a strong European voice. It is equally important that Europe needs a strong and clear Norwegian voice, which can make demands; that human rights are not just what we are talking about, but that we expect all countries to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights, which all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe have signed and ratified, that is. Europe as a whole and a little more. Then I've been told what's closest to my heart, so now I'm going to go to a couple of other things that the Progress Party is also concerned about. First, on the right of reservation provided for in Article 102 of the EEA Agreement. Many of us remember the debate on the Data Storage Directive and the high waves it created at the position when it was proposed to use the right of reservation at the time. It was not very popular – it could be countermeasures, must know. The Data Storage Directive is still not included in the EEA Agreement, and I disagree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the reason. He says Iceland still has the case to assess, but the last thing I heard was that Iceland has decided to postpone the case until the evaluation is in place, which means that it can take years before they decide. Things tend to take time in the EU. The Postal Directive also hangs a bit in the loose air. Norway has used its right of reservation here. There was no warning against using it here. We have not seen any countermeasures yet, but I understand that the Norwegian decision on the third EU postal directive is now under assessment in the EU. When will we know about the outcome of this, and what happens if they don't accept our reservation? I could imagine asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs about that. The Directive setting out the framework for television broadcasting was also one of the foreign minister's themes in the presentation. I can't help but feel that I reacted a little when he said, ‘In integrating the Directive into the EEA Agreement, we take the view that the ban on alcohol advertising in targeted consignments from abroad can also be maintained.’ It could be tempting to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what he is based on when he assumes that the ban will continue. Is it wishful thinking, or is it based on signals from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it has been accepted from the EU? Finally, within the EU programmes, and with them also in the north. There is no doubt about the importance of the northern regions and that they are becoming more and more important both for Norway and the EU — whether fisheries or oil and gas. The fact that there are some of the most important agreements in terms of cooperation with the EU and Norway is beyond doubt. It is therefore important that Norway also participates in the different research and transport programmes. EU programmes such as INTERREG, Trans-European Networks, etc., as well as initiatives in the northern dimension can be used to develop strategic engagement between Norway and the EU, not only to ensure the use of available programmes but also to further develop them during the next programming phases in a way that makes them more usable for the northern regions and the potential that lies there. We are good at boating in Norway when it comes to promoting interests in demarcated areas. But how good are we really to ensure that there is continuous knowledge and attention to our fundamental interests in Brussels and the other important capitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e245	First, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good and interesting presentation. As a small country with an export-oriented economy, Norway is heavily dependent on the economic development of our leading trading partners in Europe. EU countries are currently the largest market for Norwegian business, about 70 pst. of imports and 80 pst. of the exports. In Norway today, more than 200,000 people with EU citizenship work here every day. It makes us dependent on Europe, not just on the EU, but on European individual countries. It means a lot to us as a nation how the debt crisis is handled and what its political, economic and social consequences are. At a time when domestic policy conditions seem to mean more for individual countries to deal with the crisis than the feeling of solidarity with countries experiencing the crisis most strongly, it is important to analyse this. It is therefore important to look at the possible consequences of the elections that took place both in Greece and in France. In France, the newly elected President, Hollande, has signaled that he will change France's course. What is the EU's policy for those countries experiencing a crisis? While Sarkozy often operated by the invasion method, there is a lot of evidence that the Netherlands wants to have a love for both state interference and increased money use. While Sarkozy's strong, tough line, sometimes, experienced both problems and not least a warm tone between Berlin and Paris, there is also reason to ask questions about what Holland's policy will entail. There is no doubt that some of the problems associated with the debt crisis are just too heavy a use of money. But at the same time, one cannot take away the importance of putting in place much higher economic growth. In such a context, it is important to address Germany, which is keeping a tight line with budgetary discipline also towards Greece — something that brought France and the other eurozone countries with them. And while the Netherlands, as I say, will present economic growth and money use as more general than Sarkozy did, I will ask the Foreign Minister what he thinks the French-German dialogue will lead to in the near future. It's interesting on a day like this to ask such a question when Holland meets Merkel for the first time. The choice in Greece created further problems in a country that has already been severely affected by the financial crisis. The flute parties strengthened their positions at the expense of the two traditionally largest parties, the Workers' Party's sister party, PASOK, and the Right's sister party, Nea Dimocracy. And if there is no consensus within our Constitutional Day, Greece will be led by a business ministry, and in a short time a new election will take place. Much indicates that Europe's solidarity stands and falls on whether Greece shows the will for reform. So far Greece has done much, but very much remains. There are major changes both in Greek business and in the public sector, and many of these have also stopped pending political clarification. The longer it takes before that clarification comes, the worse the situation will be for Greece, and the more uncertain the future will be with the possibility that Greece might have to step out or be forced to step out of euro cooperation. I miss a review of Norway's commitment to Greece. Norway is directly involved by the IMF and by the Task Force for Greece, an expert group with participation from the tax haven, which is intended to support the reforms to be implemented by Greece. At the same time, we are helping through the EEA funds to achieve economic cohesion and in the area of migration and asylum. That's good, and it has Right's full support. I would like the Foreign Minister to explain the status and progress of Norway's support for Greece in a, to put it mildly, challenging time. The Minister for Foreign Affairs spent a lot of time explaining how Norway should develop and improve its European policy. I'm glad. It's timely, and it's a very important area. The European Committee's comprehensive report Outside and within the hearings and consultations show that there is a high level of involvement, and I look forward to a follow-up to the sample's assessments and recommendations towards the Ministry's communication to the Stortingen in the autumn. Let me say – when we have listeners here – that it is very enjoyable to read the thorough report on which the European Committee is based. I hope that it will lead to more debate not only on the EEA Agreement, but also on the EU in a Norwegian context. I look at the EEA and the other agreements Norway has with the EU, as Norway's lifeline to Europe. The EEA is 20 years old, and the only real option – as I see it, as the Right sees it – to membership is full membership. The EEA Agreement and other agreements with the EU are of major importance for Norway. We cannot have an economic relationship with Europe that is equally strong, without agreements that make it possible. When you look at the debate that is taking place in Switzerland, you see with all clarity some of the problems that a country that has chosen to stand outside of such agreements has, including in terms of trade access. In order for the debate on EU matters to be relevant in Norway and to ensure our influence, the government must be present and involved early in the decision-making process and influence where possible. Norwegian presence at political level is far from good enough. The NRK reviewed 16 departments and the Prime Minister's office for 2011 and found that nine government councils had not visited Brussels at all, including our oil and energy state council, Ola Borten Moe, and our Minister of Economic Affairs, Trond Giske. The NRK further finds that 16 trips had been made in total, four of which were by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and four by the former Minister of Defence, now Minister of Justice. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also places the emphasis on the importance of Europe and of Brussels in his travel arrangements. But it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' responsibility that other government councils are present, get into processes early and make sure that we are involved in influencing things that are supposed to be EEA-relevant, at such an early stage that we get influence, and that we do not use the discussion about reservation every time there is something we disagree with. The fact that the European Parliament has gained more power at the expense of the other bodies of the European Union means that, as a foreign country, we need to change our focus. If we continue our listening post strategy, we lose further influence. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘We will intensify efforts to ensure that we are politically early enough to promote Norwegian interests as effectively as possible.’ It is high time we intensified this work. However, it is the foreign minister's job to come up with concrete measures, and a first step may be to convince their own government councils of the importance of being present, to talk to their colleagues and to get in touch with those who actually decide, before we do not take the discussion on reservation. Furthermore, reference is made to a ‘administrative level of competence to ensure better use of existing EU and EEA competences’. I welcome that again, but once again I believe that there is a lack of a concrete strategy. If we continue down this road, we are about to see that Norway will be if not irrelevant, then at the edge of irrelevant, and that we will have purely reservation debates around the directives several years after they have been finalised in the EU. On the right, the government considers that the Commission must take an active part in order to influence matters, priorities and sort out matters that are or are not relevant as early as possible. It is particularly important for an outside country, which has chosen to be outside, to use all the channels we have to exercise our influence in Norway's interest to change the issues that have an impact on Norwegian business, Norwegian society, Norwegian political life, and not least with the EU to be a greater driver in both climate and environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e292	I intend to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation last week, especially in the field of external right-wing growth in Europe. One of the most serious aspects of the European crisis is that nationalism and xenophobia are on the rise throughout the continent. The Sanctuaries in Finland, the Lega North in Italy, the Freedom Party in the Netherlands, the Austrian People's Party, the Slovak nationalists, the fascists in Jobbik in Hungary – who are also contributing to a very worrying development of democracy in that country – are all examples of a hostile right-hand side that has strengthened throughout Europe with economic crisis as a backbone. The latest is the strong progress towards Le Pen in France and the new Nazis in Greece. A little about Greece: There has been a lot of gaping in the last few years for simple explanations about late and useless Greeks. The truth is that Greeks work more than average in Europe. Working for weeks without pay is not exactly a sign of laxity. The growth of anxiety and the growth of the outer right must also be read in that country as a sign of the hopelessness that now affects several generations very strongly. It is cut, it is privatization, liberalisation and, to some extent, extreme savings policy which, to a large extent, is the answer to a crisis for which the financial industry was the main cause. It's no wonder that people get angry, frustrated and despaired when the profits of a financial industry in large growth over several decades go to the rich, while the huge deficits, when it first cracks, become socialized and lead the country it's talking about, go into deep public debt. For this reason, I believe that the emergence of the wing parties on the right and left wing cannot be equated either, as the Progress Party suggests, because where the emergence of the outer right side of Europe is based on demagogic hate rhetoric against some groups of people, such as lightning conductors for people's experience of a deep personal and common economic crisis, builds up, for example. the progress of the left in Greece on the rejection of the fact that it is the unemployed, the poor and ordinary workers who have to bear the main burden of the crisis. It's a very understandable, very legitimate and very correct reaction for those people in Greece. It's very small that separates it from e.g. the pottery riots in Iceland. It is important to remember the reason why this debt has arisen in the first place. I would like to comment on what Gitmark said. Public consumption is not essentially excessive in the crisis-affected European countries that have been the source of the crisis. In Greece, there has been a default and a very irresponsible use of money over several years, but the main picture in Europe is different. After all, it was the rescue packages to the banks during the first part of the financial crisis that led to these countries becoming deeply indebted. Ireland’s debt, for example, was in 2007 at 27 p.m. of GDP, Spain at 37 pst. and the euro area average of 65 pst. In 2010, the average had increased to 85 pst., Spain's debt had doubled to 60 pst., and the Irish had tripled to over 90 pst. With the exception of Portugal, debt to all the most indebted countries in Europe decreased until the beginning of the financial crisis. It is important to bear in mind, and it is important to identify the crisis in Europe as, above all, a social and economic crisis that has a major impact on the people it affects. There is now a unemployment rate of almost 11 pst. in euro countries and 10 pst. in the EU. This means that 24 million EU citizens are out of work. It increases poverty, gives rise to social tragedies, and it gives rise to social unrest. 23 pst. – i.e. 115 million people, almost a quarter of the population in Europe – are at risk of poverty, i.e. that income is below the poverty line, that the material standard of living is inadequate or that one belongs to a household that has fallen out of the labour market. This is our generation's biggest challenge in Europe. It is a matter of far greater importance than Norwegian exclusion, which some people are talking about, and there is a question that will require our full attention not only in debates about the EU and the EEA here in Stortinget, but for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e307	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation on 8 May. I am particularly pleased with the recognition given by the Council of State to the Alternative Report, which was presented before Easter. It is no secret that we in the Centre Party are not engaged either in EU membership or in the EEA Agreement. However, I would like to stress that we are very much in favour of international cooperation. It has been so difficult to get a real political debate on the EEA Agreement. I therefore hope that the report on the various options for EU connectivity will be able to revitalise and create involvement in this discussion. Developments in many European countries today are frightening. There are budget deficits, debt problems and high unemployment rates, especially among young people. The introduction of the euro was an experiment that failed. Common currency, common monetary policy and a common framework for economic policy across countries with different economic assumptions were simply a high-risk project. EU medicine consists of economic horse cures that provide welfare care and do not contribute to growth at all. Winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics Joseph Stiglitz said to Today's Business in Spring that the EU's crisis solutions have only made worse: the policy of tightening up is working against its purpose. There will be lower income, lower tax input, and one will have to spend more money on unemployment benefits. This results in lower purchasing power and less demand. The economic crisis in Europe is now developing into a political and democratic crisis. People think it's unfair that they're left with the bill for what banks and financial institutions have been able to do with the blessing of market liberal politicians. People no longer believe that the solutions of politicians will work. The young lose the faith of the future. The social unrest is expressed in low turnout, fear of alienation and increased upswing at both political extremes. For the time being, we are sitting on our green branch here in Norway, with our oil economy and because we are not involved in euro cooperation. Work immigration to Norway is important, and we had not managed without it. A guiding principle must be that people should be able to live on the income they receive. Therefore, we cannot accept that foreign workers in Norway are being underpaid. The EEA Agreement opens up the possibility for non-resident companies to provide services in Norway in line with Norwegians. That's good. What is not so good is that they can maintain the pay and working conditions of their country. This means that Norwegian actors are often out of competition. Obviously we see it in the transport industry, where foreign trailers are about to take over. This can in the long run be problematic for us too. History has taught us that economic cracks, poverty and unemployment can have serious consequences for peace and stability. I think there are more of us in the Central Party who are concerned about the developments we are seeing in Europe today. I said initially that we are very much in favour of international cooperation, and we want good cooperation with the rest of Europe. But we need to look at the alternatives to today's EEA agreement. We know that the EEA agreement we have today is not the same as the one we were proposed in the early 1990s. It has become much more extensive than it was when it was concluded. The alternative report referred to by the State Council in its statement shows that alternatives to the current EEA Agreement exist. We can be outside – the agreement can actually be replaced by another link with the EU, for example in the form of bilateral or regional trade or cooperation agreements. Or we can build on the EEA Agreement. It is possible to renegotiate it, and we can slim it down by taking out the case fields. We have a great potential in exploiting the space of action far better than what we've done so far. We have made use of the right of reservation. We should work to increase the legitimacy of that right in the EU. The Central Party considers that both the economic and the democratic crisis in the EU and the evidence from the European Commission that the EEA Agreement weakens the Norwegian People’s Government should lead to Norway replacing the EEA Agreement with a less restrictive regime. We therefore hope that several of the parties will participate in a debate on the EEA Agreement in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e326	The crisis in the European Union is getting worse and worse. Much is due to the euro, which has both contributed to the crisis and made it more difficult to get out of it. As euro-members, the countries of southern Europe could obtain cheap loans on the basis of Germany’s creditworthiness. The result was increasing debt and the suspension of necessary reforms in the labour market and product markets. With the financial crisis, the problems emerged, and now the debt crisis is a fact. To get out of the crisis, countries now need to cut public expenditure and increase tax revenue. Then economic growth is needed. But with the euro as the single currency, the crisis-stricken countries do not get the benefit of falling exchange rates, which could give them more competitive exports and opportunities for new growth. The euro is preventing this. As I said in the Great Britain European debate a year and a half ago: ‘When monetary policy is to be adapted to the large countries, small countries will, with a different course of economic activity, have to shift the burden of necessary adaptations to the population in the form of strong social cuts, with dramatic unemployment resulting in many cases. So eurocooperation is probably making the financial crisis much deeper than is necessary in countries like Ireland and Greece. It is the most vulnerable people in the labour market who pay in terms of high unemployment.» It is very serious when unemployment in Spain is now 25 p.m. The crisis in Greece is, if possible, even more acute, including political. As long as the EU is not willing to pursue a significantly more expansive monetary policy, is there one issue that needs to be increasingly strong: is there any way forward without dropping the euro for some of the most crisis-affected countries? The alternative that appears to be emerging is long-term unemployment, social distress and risk of political unrest and conflict. Yeah, we can just imagine what could happen as a result of that. In this situation there will be a need for Norwegian solidarity. Norway contributes a large amount of financial support annually through the financing mechanisms of the EEA Agreement. We have just received a big message about the EEA funds. I think we need to discuss whether the use of these funds now needs to be channelled even more towards the acute crisis in the southern euro zone. The EU has established new supervisory bodies for the financial sector. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in the statement that there is Norwegian interest in participating, before adding: ‘But the right of supervisory bodies to take decisions directly applicable to individual companies raises legal issues that need to be resolved.’ I fully agree with that. If Norwegian accession results in the transfer of direct decision-making powers, this differs from the basic intergovernmental principle of the EEA Agreement. When it comes to renunciation of sovereignty, it is a constitutional matter that requires thorough discussion, both on the content, the decision-making process and the relationship with the Constitution. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed several of the issues currently facing Norway with regard to the EU. One concerns the new EU regulation on offshore safety. An overall offshore environment in Norway, from the trade movement to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, is critical. It can represent an unnecessary retreat for Norway as a world-leading country on offshore security. The best thing would be if the Regulation were not considered to be EEA-relevant. Let me also mention one thing we've been told about from the maritime industry. The 2004 EU Community guidelines on State aid to maritime transport are to be revised. For Norwegian maritime industry and future value creation, it is important that Norway uses its opportunity to participate in the hearing on the case to ensure that our maritime offshore segments continue to be respected following the revision of the guidelines. Another issue concerns the AMT Directive that the government will introduce, although questions have been raised about Norway’s ban on alcohol advertising in targeted consignments from abroad. The government has chosen to assume that the ban can continue. We support that. It gives the government a great responsibility – developments at this point will be closely followed. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement that, on the Norwegian side, we need to become more aware of the EEA Agreement’s scope for action in order to be able to influence and participate, but also to set clearer limits on what is EEA-relevant. This is an important point that we from the Christian People's Party have been concerned about for many years. Therefore, from the Christian People's Party, we will give full support to the government's efforts to ensure that political progress is made early enough, to strengthen coordination in cross-sectoral matters, to look at the space for action in the implementation of Norwegian law and to increase the competence of administration. This was also one of the main conclusions of the European investigation. The EEA Agreement provides a significant space for action for Norway. We have to get better at using it. We disagree on a lot in the European debate – not least the desire to play a game about the EEA Agreement, which is the basis for our relationship with Europe. The Christian People's Party believes that a tough course in this field is what Norway needs in a troubled time for Europe. But we can probably agree to make better use of the agreement across the board. That is what I think both the European Commission and the Foreign Minister's statement make.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e358	The left is stuck by the EEA Agreement and considers it to be a good link between Norway and Europe. The EU, no matter how we turn around and turn around, is going to be one of the most important trading partners we have to deal with, and we have to have good agreements. But we also share the great concern about the economic situation in Europe, which will have a lasting impact on us — including the record high unemployment rate in the euro zone, such as in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain. It also creates long-term problems for Europe and for us. Now I am probably of the opinion that most policies are well represented in terms of blame and responsibility for the situation that has arisen in Europe. There are governments of most political colors behind what has happened. I think I also share the concern that the outer wings are growing – whether it is the outermost right, or it is the outermost left. It has never led to good political solutions to cultivate any of these outer flutes, and as a centre party, we believe that the good solutions lie in the political center. Senses of injustice have made growth for the outer fleas in European history many times, it has never brought anything good with it. The possibility for Norway is that there is a large amount of highly skilled labour in Europe that is also mobile, and that Norway can use, for the unique chance that Norway has today, is that we have a government that can be among the luckiest, almost, in the world to have room for action to meet the challenges we are now facing. It's not just about the sum you're facing, in terms of money use, but what you're spending on. We will soon be presented with a revised national budget, and then we will see if the government is able to meet these challenges by focusing on what is forward-looking and enabling us to have a European lead in research, innovation and development. Then I am very pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is explaining that the Data Storage Directive is not intended to be implemented in Norway. Here the government gets to spend as long as it wants. The left believes that this should take as long as possible. The argument is that this is still valid in Iceland, and I am pleased that we have countries in the Nordic region that take time to assess before implementing such a comprehensive directive. We now see that the EU is revising the directive, as we pointed out in the debate on the directive, when it was said by workers' party representatives here in the Chamber that there were no signs of such revision. But we see that the liberal Members of the European Parliament are now in the front line to change this very important point. There are significant and major human rights challenges across the European continent, and it is important to get a twist from a very interest-based foreign policy to a much more value-based foreign policy. The challenges we see within, for example: Belarus, Ukraine and Hungary also have consequences for us. We believe that much more should have been devoted to the fight that the EU is fighting, and that it should have used means of press against these countries – in both Hungary and Belarus. We see that the persecution policy in Hungary, for example. against the roman population, also having consequences in Norwegian streets. This means that we are an integrated entity where we need to take the challenges of human rights seriously, including in Norway. We believe that this should have affected the free trade agreement that is now being negotiated with Belarus. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘At the same time, we see that climate policy is giving new leadership to energy policy. It is natural and desirable.’ That is a quote left entirely in agreement. But we think it's amazing that you have to negotiate down and not up in terms of climate obligations. The EU is an important player in climate policy, and when I meet my European liberal friends, I am fascinated by the power and energy they use in the EU system to reverse climate policy to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e382	It is true, as has been pointed out, that it is now the 20th anniversary of the EEA Agreement. It was marked in modest forms in Brussels yesterday when the EEA Council took place. It was established that this agreement has worked for 20 years, and it has served both parties well. It was interesting to hear both from the Danish Presidency, from the EEAS and from the Commission’s representatives, as we have heard at all these EEA Council meetings, that the EEA Agreement works well overall. Six months ago, the EU side pointed out that there were a number of cases that had not been implemented as agreed. Joint effort has led to that percentage being halved, to 0.5 pst., which is low, i.e. high implementation. Everybody makes a living on that. And I would like to say here that in the economic crisis we now see in Europe, it is good that the internal market exists, that it works and that it is good supervisory authorities that ensure compliance. It serves everyone, not least the smallest, and Norway is among them. It was important for me at the Council meeting yesterday to stress that information about the EEA Agreement is something we are all responsible for spreading, and as it is pointed out here, we are working on it in our own administration towards our own people. The EEA study to Sejerstedt has pointed this out. But it is also important that it should be done in the EU. It is important that the European Union sees that in the new areas of cooperation in which we come, and where the European Union and we have a common interest in our participation, the EFTA countries must also have the rights to participate meaningfully in that cooperation. We've pointed that out. It's important in principle, and it's important also completely functional. So it is that my statement and the EEA Council meeting yesterday took place against a backdrop of crisis, and it was clearly noted in Europe yesterday. I agree with the representative Skei Grande that it is not possible to point to a single cause or direction that has led to that crisis. That's why it's so complex, and that's why it's so hard to handle. The representative of the Højbräten talked about that it was then possible to drop the euro. I do not think it is a lasting strategy for the countries of southern Europe. If they drop the euro, they still have debt, they still need loans, and the value of what they own is greatly reduced. So there's no easy way out of the crisis. It underlines that these are challenges they have together. The representative of the Højbräten also stated that we should consider re-channelling EEA funds to countries in the south. I think it is important that the arrangement we now have, with all the recipients of EEA funds, is firm and implemented, because all the recipients deserve what has been agreed, and they should get it in a predictable way. This gives us the opportunity to discuss when the big message is to be debated here in the Chamber. I saw with my own eyes in Poland last week how important these funds are, not primarily as a response to the state financial crisis, but because they contribute in areas of society where there is little money from before, money being cut, and where the difference is quite clear. Yesterday I visited the office that administers this scheme in Brussels. They do a very good job and get a high level of recognition for the way the cooperation is done. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark asked questions about the French-German dialogue and how the Minister for Foreign Affairs thought it would develop. Well, the first meeting takes place today after the president's appointment in Paris, and then François Hollande travels to Berlin. I think that choice was a good choice for Europe, because I think it now comes a new tone, a new expression that the way out of the crisis does not just come through strict cuts and contractions. It comes through financial discipline, but also measures for growth. I am quite certain that Germany and France are still going to find a broad field of common goods in this area that they are going to include in the cooperation. It's important. Then I will end by saying that there are values at the bottom that it is important to stand up for when Europe is in crisis. The representative Woldseth was involved in some areas where she underlined the importance of the Council of Europe and the respect for European human rights instruments. I fully agree with that, and it's important to remember that now. I believe that the Council of Europe is actually becoming more important as an organisation in the times of crisis we are in now, especially towards countries that have major shortcomings in the implementation of their obligations – Russia, Ukraine, Turkey, and we have mentioned Belarus. This is a country on which it is important that we keep a close focus. Otherwise, I would like to say to the representative Skei Grande that I find it very difficult to find one area in which the EU and Norway are not fully in agreement, completely collided and completely unisoned in terms of having clear messages to countries that are on the democratic side, whether it is within the EU, such as Hungary, or outside the EU, such as Belarus and Ukraine, as we confirmed in the many meetings we had in Brussels yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e410	Moody's downgraded today 26 banks in Italy, in addition to what is happening in Greece, the signals given by the new president in France, and the situation in Spain. What consequences does the Foreign Minister think this will have during the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e415	I think it's a reminder that the little pause you thought the financial crisis was about to slip into, where you had prospects for growth, decline in unemployment and consolidation, is very bad. Yesterday, figures from different analytical units were also published which said that zero growth and increasing unemployment could be expected in Europe and a decline in growth in the euro area. Of the events that the representatives point to, I would say that what is happening in Italy is an expression of something that is very alarming, namely the weakness of the soundness of the banks. It is worth remembering that our own finance minister has underlined the importance of Norway now keeping order in its home, and the importance of banks building up reserves while they can, in order to be robust in the situation we are in. What has happened in Italy on the bank side is an expression of this. We've been in Greece. It only underlines that this is a common European problem. Greece is a small part of Europe's economy, but further structurally Greece's path will also be crucial for other countries' prospects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e424	I noticed the foreign minister's mention of the EEA Agreement, both last Tuesday and today. However, I also noticed the representative Grøtting from the Central Party, who called for the establishment of bilateral trade agreements instead of the EEA Agreement. What makes the opinion interesting is that the representative Groetting represents one of the government parties here in Stortinget. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees that bilateral trade agreements can be an alternative to the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e429	Now I didn't hear that post as a significant news from the Center Party. It was probably a confirmation of what the Center Party has meant for a long time. The starting point for me and for the government is what is government policy, what is in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government Declaration and the statements I make in the Storting, which are government statements. So it clears up the matter. As far as the question is concerned, I have no faith that bilateral agreements provide a better outcome for Norway. I have no faith that raising major issues out of the EEA Agreement is a good solution for Norway, as we are exposed. I believe in a thorough review of EEA cooperation, an increased awareness of the space we have, wants and needs to be an active European participant. Then I am very concerned about developing the importance of non-discrimination throughout Norwegian society, employment and business, namely that there are equal rules, and that those who wake up and go to work in Norway can know that there is equal treatment – non-discrimination – and security for it. It's the EEA Agreement, as it is in all its main today, our best guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e436	Olov Grøtting, from the government's support wheel the Centre Party, says in his speech that it is important to increase the legitimacy of the EU to the right of reservation. In this respect, there is an inherent, almost continuous desire for Norway to make more frequent use of the right of reservation. After all, the government has notified the reservation in one matter. So I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he shares the view that it is important to increase the legitimacy of the right of reservation in the EU, and that this means that there will also be more cases in the future where the use of the right of reservation is relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e443	First of all, I do not share the opinion of the Central Party as a support wheel for the government. I share the opinion that the Central Party is part of the government as one of three parties that make up this government – and I am pleased about that. Secondly, I believe it is very important that there is legitimacy around all parts of the EEA Agreement, including the article dealing with the right of reservation. It would be strange if we said it was the other way around, that it was part of the EEA agreement that it wasn't so important to have legitimacy. Whether we use an article or a regulation little or much, it doesn't matter whether it should have legitimacy or not. I believe that Norway is fundamentally not served with many exceptions and variations with respect to the rest of Europe; we are served with equal treatment. But it is absolutely essential that that right, the right of reservation, exist – the EEA agreement could not exist without – and that it be respected when and if it is used. The government has no plans to use that right in the near future, but we are aware that we have it, and we are prepared to use it if we believe it serves Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e450	It is well known that this government is based on the EEA Agreement as a government, and we have been illustrated how it actually appears here in the main hall. A couple of government parties use every opportunity to try to undermine the EEA Agreement. It should worry more than the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It concerns at least the Christian People's Party. But what could have been important in this situation, where we have now had a debate on alternatives to the agreement and an investigation of the experience of the agreement itself, is whether the Foreign Minister can now tell Stortinget whether we can assume that any remaining red-green government after the next major elections will be based on the EEA Agreement, as the current red-green government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e457	Now I don't feel that it's been degenerate in the staging room. The stork hall is probably too formal for that. It has been quite clear all along what this government has been doing. That these are discussions belongs to democracy, and I think that is quite right. Then, let me say, I am also very pleased with the systematic and consistent support of the Christian People's Party for the EEA Agreement. It is indeed important, and it is important for the government to have the support in the broader perspective that foreign policy should have. When we prepare for a new period of red-green government after 2013, there will be negotiations, as it was after 2005 and 2009. We know the phase from 2005 and 2009, and from the Labour Party's side, I don't think it's going too far to say that the starting point we have today is a natural starting point to continue working on. But I respect that it should be negotiated, as it was in the past, and so we know what happened in 2005 and 2009. I believe that for the Workers' Party it is a fundamental issue to have order on relations with Europe, non-discrimination and focus on the possibility of value creation, work and well-being through cooperation with Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e466	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that there is no area where the EU has had a more value-based foreign policy than Norway. I'm very surprised at that. We now see that the EU has stopped negotiations on the free trade agreement with Belarus, while Norway takes it as part of the free trade agreement with Russia and has no objection to the inclusion of Europe's last dictator by a free trade agreement with Norway. Similarly, the EU has had a very sharp tone towards Ukraine and exerted pressure from sport policy to sport in the situation we are now seeing, while we have seen a much weaker tone from Norway, the Minister of Foreign Affairs would strengthen it after the previous Question Time. The special situation in Belarus has worried us. Why does the Foreign Minister say that it is completely equal when the EU has a different policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e471	We negotiate in slightly different configurations with countries about free trade agreements. The point, which I have repeated several times here, is that we started a negotiation with Russia. Then Russia joined a union in this area with Kazakhstan and Belarus, and that's how they got involved. But such an agreement with them will never come into force until these are members of the WTO, and it is well in time. That is why I believe that this is not a crucial obstacle. But what I said in my post was not a difference in value-based foreign policy. In fact, in some areas, the EU and Norway have slightly different approaches, but they are largely interrelated. I said that in the press against these countries, which do not follow the European Conventions on Human Rights, I demand that there be something on the action page or on the expression page that separates Norway from the EU, and that is not. It is a clear common expression from Europe's democracies to countries that have poor democratic scrolls and deserve to hear them through actions, opinions and clear positions from Norway and other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e477	In my article I spoke, among other things. on the Postal Directive and Norway’s reservation against this Directive are now under assessment in the EU. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what time horizon he thinks it will be before we get a response from the European Union, and whether there may be countermeasures on this reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e482	Thank you for the question, because I failed to answer it instead – that was not the intention – but I am now given the opportunity. The representative asked if the EU would accept our reservation. I don't think that's exactly what they're thinking, because even a reservation gives us both the obligation to try to find a solution. We now see that this ball is on the EU side. We've had conversations. We still do not find it possible to introduce that directive, as it now says. Yesterday, at the meeting of the EEA Committee, a number of directives were referred to by the EU, which were not implemented for different reasons, and the Postal Directive was mentioned in this context. There were no other EU signals in relation to any measures, as provided for in the EEA Agreement. So the position from the Norwegian side is still that we have given this feedback. We did it a year ago. We've had some clarifying conversations, so we're not going to be able to come back. We're waiting to get a signal from the EU, which I think we need to accept now is struggling with a number of other problems that may be a little above that problem. But we expect this to be dealt with by the European Union, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e491	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e494	Recently, there has been a debate in Norway on our relationship with the EEA Agreement. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has now made it very clear that the EEA Agreement is part of the government's foundation to govern, but I think that anyone who believes that the EEA Agreement is good for Norway has a responsibility to enter into the debate that is now going out there and to put forward their arguments. Several representatives before me have described in this debate the very serious situation in which many European countries are located. I just want to start by saying that I think our excellent foreign minister would have a very demanding task if we were to send him out to Europe to explain to our friends on a crisis-ridden continent that Norway, with Europe's lowest unemployment and very solid surplus on the state budget, needs to negotiate new agreements to strengthen our position. I don't think he or we would get a great deal of understanding about it, to say it a little cautiously. The EEA Agreement is our most important international agreement. It ensures access to our most important market, and therefore it is crucial for Norwegian businesses and for Norwegian jobs. The EEA Agreement is a very important prerequisite for people’s basic security in everyday life, and in particular in the current situation in Europe. A prerequisite for our business to survive in a globalised market is stable, predictable and competitive framework conditions. The EEA Agreement provides such a common internal market legislation and provides Norwegian companies with framework conditions that enable them to compete on an equal footing with European businesses. It is worth remembering that approx. 80 pst. of our exports today go to the EEA countries. The European survey concludes that the EEA Agreement has been a stable and predictable framework for Norwegian business for 18 years. It has reduced the need for the deflagration of Norwegian business and has contributed to a unique period of high employment, growth and increased well-being. It has also, despite perhaps some everyday irritations, contributed to the quality raising of Norwegian legislation to take care of health, environment, safety and consumer interests. In addition, it has given us access to professional international cooperation and research, to mention something. For me, it is therefore a paradox that questions are now being asked whether the EEA Agreement benefits Norway. When only 17 out of a total of more than 6 000 cases in the period 1992–2011 have made proposals to exercise the right of reservation, and a total of 265 out of 287 votes in the Stortinget have been unanimous, there can be no doubt that a single political Norway has considered the EEA Agreement to be a major advantage to Norway. So, of course, the fact that the agreement has worked well does not mean that nothing can be done better. In the statement to the Stortingen last week, the Minister for Foreign Affairs just underlined that the scope for action provided by the EEA Agreement can and will be exploited even better. We can become more aware of what kind of opportunities we have [[...]] Several of the debates related to the EEA Agreement have been related to working life. A very important premise for our further cooperation with Europe must be that we strengthen the rights of workers and that we do not weaken them. I said, as Head of Trade and Office, Sture Arntzen, said to the magazine Free Trade Movement: "I see no alternative to the EEA Agreement."
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e513	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for an interesting presentation. I have also noted on my paper that the EEA Agreement has soon worked for 20 years. It thus gives Norway access to the EU's internal market, including 500 million inhabitants. The EEA Agreement has not only worked satisfactorily – the EEA Agreement meant the beginning of the perhaps strongest economic growth period in Norwegian history. Two of the Government Parties will terminate the EEA Agreement. It is therefore good that the Government and the Workers' Party have nevertheless overrun the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party and laid the EEA Agreement as a solid basis for Norway's association with Europe. The Progress Party will build on and improve the EEA Agreement. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement states that Norway and the EU should continue their efforts to gradually liberalise trade in agricultural products. This process has not been launched for real. In a meeting held by a group of wholesale representatives with representatives of the European Parliament in February, the Norwegian authorities were asked to participate in the reduction of customs duties and quota provisions. This will make Article 19 of the EEA Agreement something more than a Memorandum of Understanding. More free trade in the agricultural sector will provide more diversity and better quality for Norwegian consumers. I therefore hope the government will start to follow this up after almost 20 years. This has suddenly become very topical, since Norwegian farmers have started blocking the supply of Norwegian food in protest against the government. A theme that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not mention, but which I know he is concerned about, is the situation in Cyprus. The third largest island of the Mediterranean Sea is divided and the situation appears to be stuck. The Republic of Cyprus on the southern part of the island is a member of the EU. In the north, the Turkish population is a majority, and they have established the Turkish Republic of North Cyprus without any specific response. Only Turkey has recognized this state. But the division of Cyprus is probably an irreversible process. It is now just as unimaginable that North Cyprus should be incorporated into the Cypriot state in the south, as that the Cypriot state in the south would become a part of North Cyprus, or of Turkey for that matter. History is full of disputes between Greeks and Turks in the area. However, the region has been de-stressed over a period of 40 years. The time may have come to recognize that a collection of one kingdom is unrealistic in Cyprus, and that it might as well be convenient to adapt the map to the terrain, literally. I therefore think it is time for the government to re-examine the Cyprus issue and how Norway can work with this internationally. This will probably be a theme in any case, since Cyprus will take over the presidency of the EU from 1 July. If we imagine that the island will consist of two independent countries, or a kind of federation with two Cypriot territories, we have to come back to. But no one deserves to know that this matter remains unresolved. There will therefore be an advantage if North Cyprus is given the opportunity to deal with international organisations such as the EU/EEA, the UN, the WTO and NATO. It will also be an advantage for the south Cypriots to get a solution on the island, and not least it will be a relief for the north Cypriots to get into a situation where they live in a proper country and not just in an unsolved zone. That is why I want to ask for the government's initiative on Cyprus.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e532	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation and join in very much of what has been said about the seriousness of the economic situation that characterises the countries of southern Europe. As I perceive the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there are two main messages in the government's European policy. One is to exploit the space for action provided by Norway’s agreement with the EU, and the other is to limit what Norway is going to do. Right wants to welcome both messages. Involvement more in ongoing and forthcoming legislative processes and being active — not reactive — has been, and will continue to be, our main challenge in European policy in the future. It doesn't help to be right if we don't get it right. It is therefore positive that the Foreign Minister now wants the government to use the space for action provided by our agreements with the EU. The Minister for Foreign Affairs draws up the case for repatriation as an example of the space available. I believe it must be far more important to get into the processes of ambition to participate as far as possible than to bring a case fully before the courts before it gets its final clearance – although of course it has to be done when it is required. It must be equally important to use the possibility to define matters out of EEA cooperation. The Data Storage Directive is a good example of a Directive which could have been better defined to be outside the EEA framework. The issue of offshore safety now under way may be another area for which it is possible to state that national States should naturally decide sovereignly. EU decision-making processes have changed in recent years and have made it easier for individual countries to get on the road, both through formal and informal participation channels. EU member or not – it is the visible, constructive actors who shape and push processes forward. Norway should be such a visible and constructive actor. It requires a stronger presence of EU decision-makers than many government councils have so far demonstrated. Take energy policy as an example: despite the explicit objective of achieving the internal energy market by 2014, it is not realistic that legislative design will stop it. The EU Energy Roadmap 2050 clearly shows the EU's ambitions in the field of energy and the environment. Norway can and should play a significant role in realising EU ambitions, because we represent a part of the solution, but also because EU decisions will have a major impact on one of our key strategic areas. Let me – like the Minister for Foreign Affairs – recognise the European Committee for their comprehensive report Outside and within. It gives us a good historical and analytical framework and had deserved to form the basis for a more enlightened European debate, both in this room, in the country's classroom and in the public space in general. As I read the report, it shows that the agency we have had with the EU in the last 20 years has been gold worth Norway. Membership had, in my opinion, been even better. Then we would have been better able to directly influence matters that in any case require our implementation. I miss such a European debate, and I lack concrete measures to ensure that Norway pursues an active European policy. The European Survey clearly shows how integrated we are in European cooperation and how important the European arena is to Norway. It concerns in particular the EEA Agreement. I expect that I have the Foreign Minister with me when I say that this is not the time to roll back at 40 years and reintroduce the Free Trade Agreement from 1973, and believe that the rights we have acquired as equivalent partners in economic cooperation in Europe will last. If we do, we will be B members, not only in the political community in Europe – as we are now – but also in the economic community in Europe. It's not one step back, it's another world, and it's a world we've put behind us. That is why I join the representative Svein Roald Hansen – in and on behalf of the representative Helga Pedersen – who determines the importance of the EEA agreement for Norway. Svein Roald Hansen also went so far that he said there is only one realistic alternative to the EEA Agreement, and there is full membership of the EU. That was wise, and I agree with that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e555	The crisis in the EU is reflected in the views of Norwegian voters on the EU. EU resistance has never been stronger than it is now, and the conclusion of the EEA Agreement is also shattering. In fact, polls show that a majority of the population – if chosen today – would prefer a trade agreement where we do not have the same obligations to adapt to the EU's diverse laws and regulations. We can think of possible alternatives to the EEA Agreement, but I think this is worrying. We have just received a European investigation that fully demonstrates the great importance of the EEA Agreement for Norwegian business and employment, without having a particular tone of voice in the people, which, in my view, underlines the need for a broad and informative debate on our relationship with the European Union. It could be a day when it is no longer known that we can base our relationship with the European Union on the EEA Agreement. The treatment of the temporary agency directive can serve as an example of what can happen when the debate fails. Here we have a directive which, in my opinion, is good for Norwegian working life, but which nevertheless meets the resistance of a united Norwegian trade union movement – with the exception of the academics. The opposition to the Temporary Agency Directive has led to general EEA resistance, but most of all it reflects a lack of confidence in the EU system’s management of employment issues. We must then recognise that EU legislation in this field is increasingly affecting Norwegian legislation, and this is not just positive. In my opinion, the Posting of Workers Directive, or the Posting of Workers Directive, which someone chooses to call it, has had a negative impact on Norwegian working life, because it legitimises that foreign workers can be offered pay and working conditions different from those common to the country, and because the European Court of Justice, through several judges, has weakened the ability of the trade union movement. Here on the mountain, we have met the directive with a variety of measures to combat social dumping, not least a public service law, which actually legislates tariff agreements in designated areas. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his presentation, the Posting of Workers Directive is at the heart of two important issues for our fight against social dumping. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has doubted Norway’s access to the requirement of pay and working conditions in public contracts. Here, EU law conflicts with international labour law and ILO Convention No. 94, to which most EU countries have acceded. I believe that the outcome of this case will have a significant impact, not only on the position of the trade union movement in relation to the EEA Agreement. It is all the more gratifying that Borgarting has now given full support to the State and the trade union movement in a dispute about the content of the public service scheme, for the benefit of employees. The EU Commission has now tried to correct some of the distortions created by the EU Court of Justice in the enforcement of the Posting Directive, without success. The proposals are very controversial — so controversial that they are hardly implemented, at least not in their present form. Both Swedes and Danes have made it clear that they will not support the existing proposals. The European Trade Union Movement and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament are equally clear because, through Community legislation, the Commission is still trying to restrict the right of action of the trade union movement. The alarming fact of European labour policy is that it is building up a free labour market, with mobile labour, without sufficiently balancing it against the rights of workers. While the trade union movement in the Nordic countries and in Germany is used to winning with their demands in negotiations, a weakened and partially fragmented trade union movement south of Europe is little in contact with employers, nor in the EU. The Temporary Agency Directive is an example of this. Here, European trade union movements tried for several years to negotiate a European agreement with employers, without results. So it had to be Community legislation to correct this. Of course, large and increasing unemployment with rich labour supply does not make European employers more cooperative. This is seen by Norwegian trade unionists, and EU scepticism has grown. That is why we have a job to do, we who believe that the EEA Agreement should continue to be the basis for our relationship with the EU. Through our cooperation with the European Union and in our European policies, we must promote understanding that there are differences and different traditions in the working lives of individual countries, and that competition policy cannot be operated in such a way that it weakens the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e572	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Council of State for a good presentation – a presentation that embraces a wide range of issues. There has also been a good debate today, which shows the excitement of the Stortinget. I must personally be allowed to support whether or not the representative of Astrup's posts, which I think was a very good and pointed out post, without going into more detail on whether or not to be a member of the EU in the long term. We're dealing with what's per day. But I think it's a little important that we in Stortinget, and especially we who are very much in favour of the EEA Agreement, are our responsibility conscious when we talk about the EEA Agreement. Through the change of words that we see in both the media and other places, it is very easy that we bring forward the negative consequences when we debate it. Why do we have to take that directive? Why can't we get away from it? – etc. I think we have to start focusing more on the positive things. Norwegian business had looked completely different today, it would not have been for the EEA Agreement and the market that the EU represents. It helps regulate the relationship between Norway and EU countries in such a way that it significantly simplifies the process for Norwegian business. It has given this business the opportunity to grow even within a secure framework. It is also important that we look at the actual policy we are pursuing. It cannot be that, from the Norwegian side in any case, and at any time, we should be the best in the class to implement as quickly as possible all the directives that come, yes, long before the EU countries themselves have done so. Norway, of course, is going to implement what is coming, but it may also be that we should be able to use a little cleverly in the future and perhaps also demand that EU countries implement their own EU directive much faster than what is being done before Norway introduces it into its legislation. Also in this house we have a tendency to very quickly, and with a little hare lab, to review these EEA issues that are coming. I think it's important that the individual committees in this house go into the different directives in depth, just to know what's going on. The Deposit Directive is, of course, an important indication of this – a matter which has not yet been resolved but which, if implemented as originally envisaged by the EU, will be a significant weakening for Norwegian consumers and depositors, within the banking sector. Let us hope that the current legislation will apply, so that Norway can maintain its good guarantees and not be required to reduce them. Fisheries policy is also a very important issue in which we share common waters with the EU. Norway has been working for a long time for a draft ban, and not least for Iceland and the pelagic sector, and also for landing bans for the unregulated catch, under agreements concluded or which have unfortunately become: non-agreements. I think we have a long way to go. However, as far as fisheries legislation for the EU is concerned, I would say that if the new draft currently under consideration is adopted, yes, then seven-mile steps have been taken in the right direction within the fisheries policy of the EU. Time is fast, so I am going to use the last part of my post for the so-called EEA contributions that Norway is part of. For the period 2009-2014, we will contribute SEK 1.79 billion. euro. That's an increase of 1.28 billion. during the previous period. I think it's important that we have an ongoing debate here in Stortingen in connection with these funds, so that you can actually see what the funds are used for, not just as an ex-post report, after agreements have been concluded. However, it may also be possible to take a discussion in advance to see how the use of these funds could increase the possibility for Norwegian business to be brought in more closely as a result of this use.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e593	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. I would like to take from the introduction to the Foreign Minister's statement, where he said that last year's debate shows a strong commitment to the EEA Agreement in the Stortinget. It is positive that the Minister of Foreign Affairs sees it this way. However, I would also like to point out that very many issues relating to the inclusion of directives in the EEA Agreement are being adopted without so much debate, either here in the Chamber or elsewhere, and others have been involved here today. The Data Storage Directive, the Postal Directive and the Temporary Agency Directive have created debate and commitment, but most directives do not. What does that tell us? You should be careful to interpret that, but I think it's quite random which issues are being debated. The worrying, however, is an increasing EEA debate, on the basis that we should use the right to reserve more fully. Some even propose to wind up the EEA Agreement for the benefit of bilateral agreements or other arrangements. It may indicate that there has been too little debate and attention to the EEA Agreement and its relevance to the Norwegian economy and society. Here, the NOU provides a broad and sound basis for an informed debate on Norway’s agreement with the EU. The EEA Agreement came into effect almost 20 years ago. As documented in this NOU, the agreement has served Norway well over these years. It has, among other things, providing a good and secure framework for relations with our main partner, reducing the need for the deflagration of Norwegian business, because we have equal access to the internal market, and contributing to a unique period of high employment, growth and increased well-being in Norway. It has also contributed strongly to the clear quality of Norwegian legislation in order to address important concerns such as health, the environment, safety and consumer interests in many areas. In addition, it has given us a fit for professional international cooperation that is almost indispensable. The EEA is much more than an economic and commercial issue. The internal market includes a number of rights for all citizens and businesses. The EEA Agreement gives Norwegian citizens opportunities and rights that many people take for granted. This concerns the possibility of studying, working and researching throughout the EEA territory. The European Health Card, for example, which we bring with us on the journey, provides us with health care throughout the EEA area without any cost to the individual. Extensive cooperation has been developed in a number of areas of the EEA Agreement, such as research, the environment, education, youth work, employment, industrial development, culture, energy, etc. Similarly, we are also a member of about 20 of the many EU agencies in different areas. What characterises this extensive cooperation is that it has been developed mainly on the basis of Norwegian wishes and initiatives, and it is also based on a broad political majority here in this Chamber. There is nothing that has been imposed on us, which can often be seen when someone says that the EEA has become so much more than suggested when the agreement was concluded. The alternatives to today’s EEA Agreement outlined by those who are in charge of it, I cannot see Norwegian interests and needs being met, as the EEA Agreement does. They also appear to be less realistic, as Norway alone does not define the content of the agreement. Where appropriate, it shall be negotiated. It is suggested that the government should make better use of the EEA operational space. The increased use of the operating space is also something the Sejersted report points to, and I believe that the government is also concerned about. Norway has tried to use the space for action as best as possible since the start of EEA cooperation, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs' emphasis on securing Norwegian interests also by becoming more aware of the contractual framework's scope of action is thus important and supported. The EEA Agreement has served us well for the 20 years it has existed. Norway has a significant room for action, which is exploited and can also be exploited even better. The EEA Agreement is important for Norway. The alternative is not other agreements but full membership of the EU. As I started to say, the commitment to the EU is not the greatest, either here or out of the population – with some exceptions. It is therefore important to stress that it is not only the government that should be active in relation to the EU in order to promote Norwegian interests. The Storting should be too. There are several people who have been involved in this today. The possibilities of Stortinget have become significantly better. We now have our own office in Brussels, with an employee who can help improve contact between the EU Parliament and the Stortinget on important issues for Norway. We also receive information on all matters promoted for consideration, at the same time as the national parliaments in the Member States. So we must take the initiative ourselves and be active in relation to our parties in Parliament and report to hearings etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e616	The Minister for Foreign Affairs presented a lot of interesting topics. For my part, I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs took time to talk about those parts of Europe that have been a little overshadowed by the news from the crisis-stricken southern Europe, among others. the Baltic countries. As most people have said, the crisis in Europe concerns us all. Here at home we will and must conduct a responsible economic policy. The current presentation of the revised budget confirms that. However, we should also remain jointly and severally accountable to countries within the EEA area through our use of EEA funds. Through our EEA funds, we are helping to create added value for both individuals and businesses in the countries receiving such support. For me, that's a good enough reason. Unfortunately, however, we meet people who do not see it, and who in clear order are very unhappy that Norway ‘gives away’ money to Poland and the Baltic countries without getting anything back. I must be allowed to express that such attitudes may not be based on facts, but perhaps an expression of being close to yourself – while sitting and swinging on the famous green branch. It is in such a context that I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs took the time to make visible that our EEA funds are not the money we throw out of the window. I am therefore very pleased when he says that ‘the EEA funds are both a clear and solidarity contribution to economic and social cohesion in Europe’. So far, experience has shown that we get more than we contribute, how important it is that we get it in terms of securing jobs both here at home and in each country. But we have a common challenge in making this a little bit better visible. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was also in the neighbourhood policy of the EU and has gradually gained a clearer focus towards the north. That's good. Everyday in the north can be a good learning venue, where, through our daily challenges, but also through opportunities, we can increase the EU’s knowledge of the north. There are many hit points. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned the regional councils in his statement and that the EU could have an observer role in the Arctic Council. In addition, there are well-established forms of cooperation through various INTERREG projects. In the north, through generations, fisheries have been very important for the development up to now, and there is no doubt that the knowledge of fisheries management we have acquired through generations must be shared with others. There is no doubt that the EU and Norway have many common interests in this area. We manage common stocks, but we also have something to do with our fisheries policy. In our north-eastern policy, it is important to ensure that there is light in the houses along our entire coast. How we have managed our fishing resources has contributed to stable settlements and given jobs both at sea and on land. Although it has fluctuated a little, it has given good results over time to those who have had their jobs at sea, and those who have been on land. It has created added value for the individual and the communities they are part of. The creation of ring-effects in terms of jobs when we are going to use our resources is important, whether we are talking about renewable or non-renewable resources. Today, it is even more important that we discuss this when we stand in the north on the threshold of extracting oil and gas and the large mineral deposits that we know exist in the northernmost state, as well as that we live on the fish of the sea for generations to come. What is happening within the fisheries of my home country is therefore worth focusing on. Through the combination of allocated allowances and delivery obligations for rural installations, trawlers have helped to maintain activity along our entire coast. But in these days we learn that coastal communities are losing rural jobs. The fish that should have been landed is literally about to slip out of our hands, because those who have been given control of the large trawl quotas choose to ignore the obligations at the bottom of the quotas when they were allocated. Unfortunately, what we're recording is that the bottom line of companies is becoming more important than the obligations to the communities where the allowances were allocated. At the same time, we see that the same actors are in control of both farms and fisheries quotas. They are sitting on both sides of the table and shackles and choices with the community's resources as if they belong to them – something they don't do, but as the actors later to believe. That they are bound by delivery obligations, they choose elegantly to ignore. What is happening now cannot be found in the people of my home country. Since I'm standing here, you have to be careful what words you use to describe the mood in the communities that are affected. But I can say so much as that the word 'irritated' is one too weak expression. The interaction of policies, capital and resources is important. Policy puts the framework conditions in place, and capital follows them. But when capital challenges policy and framework conditions, it is mildly said that it is difficult. In Finland, we are now there in terms of access to and control of fisheries resources. Bringing these experiences into our exchange of experience with the EU is therefore very important. The question is: who should control a country's natural resources? The answer is given: They will belong to us all and benefit us all. My clear recommendation to the government is that it will follow this up with the actors that are currently involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e648	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e652	That doesn't mean I'm going to talk twice as fast, does it? I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an excellent presentation, and I am very pleased that Norway is part of the EEA Agreement. I'm actually proud to be able to say that too. Not least in a world of uncertainty and economic turbulence, it is particularly important to stick to what gives us security and stability. I still record that there are forces around the country that want to cut the umbilical cord to the EEA Agreement, which I will strongly warn against. Why this concern? Yes, the EEA Agreement is our main international agreement and is crucial for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs. It involves a single internal market regulatory framework and ensures an equivalent framework for Norwegian companies allowing them to compete on an equal footing with European businesses. The significance is self-evident when we know that two thirds of all Norwegian exports go to the European market. We can, for example: take our close shipping that goes along the whole coast, and to and from ports in Europe. They are totally dependent on having international, competitive framework conditions and on our being active in the development of legislation, including: through the International Maritime Organisation, the IMO, which is one of the major pieces of the United Nations system. I support what was said earlier by Højbrätten, that we must take an active part in various consultations in the EU – which are important for different business actors. A current maritime industry consultation is the consultation of the EU State Aid Guidelines, which is currently ongoing, which is a self-help consultation. We need to take advantage of the opportunities available to us to influence international legislation, so that the framework conditions are good for our actors. So here it's about building on what's good, and taking care of what's not related, and that we're so far not satisfied with. Several of the debates related to the EEA Agreement are also related to employment, and the EEA Agreement has strengthened the position of workers in many areas. The principle of free movement of labour within the EU and the EEA has over time led to the adoption of rules to ensure non-discrimination and social rights in the host country and to the inclusion of acquired rights across borders. Such legislation has helped to improve the rights of workers in all EEA countries. We have to keep doing that. I think that the mood that's out there suggests that we have to work more on what's negative in relation to the main message in the report, and take it further with us in the work, and then we're going to build up under what's good. Then I think this is going to go very well, and I look forward to new debates for the autumn on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e667	There must be challenging times also for the Foreign Minister to explain developments in Europe. It is demanding, in many ways a two-part Europe is seen, where there is a great deal of positive progress on the political integration front towards the old Eastern bloc countries. But then we have southern Europe facing great challenges. In this way, the debate surprises me quite strongly when the Central Party can talk about market liberalism and SV that there are not countries that have spent too much money, which are responsible for the crisis. Much of the crisis in Europe today is due to governments that have not been willing to comply with political consensus. The whole country has survived, and there are largely countries that have been run by socialists. It gives cause for concern, because the challenges in Europe are huge, there are huge imbalances, and I think that the debate reflects that we are not able to address the challenges. In this context, I think it is important to stress that the Norwegian financial industry and Norwegian banking industry are healthy. It has been well-managed with its money, it has been profitable throughout the process and the whole crisis in Europe, and it has not led the Norwegian authorities to net outlays in relation to the crisis. Support measures had to be put in place properly, but there has been no burden on the state of Norway. It's pretty important to establish. Then I am amazed that the Minister of Finance is often more concerned with signalling alone – that we should regulate more strongly than our partners are doing. I noticed that the deposit guarantee was mentioned, but it is far from being successful yet. That's a good example in many ways, because that's where I think the government has worked well. However, there is also a lot of evidence that the EU is connecting this to, among other things. capital adequacy requirements and the crisis management directive, and we are completely absent. It is quite important that we also participate, because Norway has very special challenges. We're a very strong state, we have a state that doesn't borrow. So it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's say it's going to be equal to-- let's see. results from the fact that life companies do If we are not awake here and we are on the road in relation to how the EU is going to write its directives, we could risk the lifelong business disappearing out of Norway. This cannot be the point of our having a strong state – that we are simply going to wipe out certain industries in Norway and leave them to others, who have apparently lived under less regulation and who have had less soundness of mind. Here I want to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be as active in relation to other directives as he has been in relation to the Deposit Directive, and I also want him to be happy to succeed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e680	There are challenging times in Europe, and not least there are too many common people who experience the impact of the economic crisis and the banking crisis. I totally disagree with the Right, which says that the crisis alone is because someone has worked too little or spent too much money. The crisis is caused by many things, but it is because the banking and financial world has not been regulated in such a way that there has been no bubble and no need for large rescue packages, that it is based too much on speculation and too little on production, and that it has been too little based on the fact that everyone has to contribute to the fissure layer if it is to hold. The problem now is that people do not experience the security and stability that was the starting point for cooperation – whether they call it the EU, the EEA or other types of cooperation. It is important, because what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech was absolutely crucial. Can we regain confidence in politics and politicians? That's what's going on in Europe now. That is why I have to ask the representative Svein Roald Hansen from the Labour Party who says that social democracy wants more Europe, but more of what? Is there more of what we see now, with hard savings packages that hit people most, or is there any other grip that can cause you not to experience these severe crises over and over again? Then I can challenge especially in one area, which is about tax havens. If we don't get together in Europe now, if we can't close these holes, they'll come over and over again. This dealt with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the previous session, and they agreed that these are the most important things in order to provide people with security and stability in the economies. The Council of Europe's Social Committee also held consultations on the savings measures with UNCTAD's Director, Heine Flassbeck, who said that the medicine now being printed kills the patient. Cut only works if the people who have enriched themselves and joined the party, also have to join in and pay the bill. Two things are important: working life is affected. We need to focus on the things that have made Norway a successful country economically, namely small differences and a working life that can be lived from time to time. We have to stand firm on that, because without it, the Norwegian society will change to the worse. Finally, the Roma are among the most vulnerable and disadvantaged in Europe. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to work to use more of our EEA funds to ensure that this population is able to have a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e695	The Minister for Foreign Affairs described an economic crisis in the EU that is turning into an increasingly serious political crisis. The Minister for Foreign Affairs described the challenge in a situation of 24 million unemployed in Europe – a humble foreign minister to what he sees as a fundamental problem – that is good. In the Sejersted Committee's investigation, we can read on page 447 that 'neither in the Stortinget nor in the trade union movement, there was support to liberalise the rules' for labour immigration in addition to what was done in the 1990s in relation to seasonal and specialist work. Furthermore, when the enlargement of the EEA to include 10 new Member States was approved by an increase in cross-border policy in 2003, this meant: ‘a radical shift in the view of labour immigration from Eastern Europe in Norwegian policy, and there was nothing to suggest that such a turn had received political support if it was not part of a major pan-European project’. The majority is responsible for establishing a social order that both the Brochmann Committee and the Sejersted Committee's conclusions say is the biggest challenge for the Nordic welfare model ever. This is the largest and most serious intervention of the EEA Agreement in Norwegian society. It is the same policy that has now led Europe into the deepest political crisis in decades. Democracy has been set aside for the benefit of the market. The Union project of the feeders has never been identified or shared by the common Europeans. It is a European elite project without a vote of confidence in the population, and now the trust of politicians who introduced the free flow of work and capital in Europe is failing. The disintegration of the outside right in France and Greece is the latest example of something going terribly wrong. We are turning young people from the poorest countries of Europe into a wandering proletariat that offers its own labour force at a low price. Few things upset me more than to hear young right-wing librarians in Norway claim to manage our time of solidarity through this system of exchange, and I say with Ottar Brox: the disease has reached all parties! The parties' leading trustees are most often among those who do not experience competition under wage, pension and labour conditions from low-paid non-resident labour. On the contrary, the Norwegian elite — from right to left — belongs to those who see pluses in household budgets as a result of increasing competition in the labour market. But as a society, we all lose, both those who buy services, those companies that get out of competition, and those that have to travel. Europe is changing. It's a solid political experiment we're now witnessing that cracks in the joints. We do not yet know the ultimate consequence of Europe choosing to move freely instead of building solid national economies of production and knowledge beyond the 1990s. But we've seen enough time overdue to choose a different course. Democratic nation states with their own currency are progressing!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e715	I am a little surprised at the turn the debate has taken. I really wonder what an impression it must create in our neighbouring countries, and in Europe, moreover, to hear Norwegian parliamentarians, in particular representatives from two of the government's three parties, with raised indexes telling them how to act – in all our success and all our wealth live even fatter than any other, using extreme oil and gas revenues that fill the state's treasury with money every two days, building up the world's largest fund, which can invest and secure our prosperity, growth and development for generations to come, which can ensure our own pensions, which create real wage growth, which will ensure that we have an investment rate in Norway with which almost no other country can measure for confusion. This is activity coming from a sector where representatives of the same two parties who are now pointing their finger at our neighbouring countries, against our European friends, have stood on this platform and argued strongly and strongly against being developed. I think this is almost at the limit of being embarrassing. So these are representatives who are getting up here today and saying no, we have to renegotiate the EEA Agreement, it's not good enough. I have a strong suspicion that our European friends are more than willing to take the floor. The first thing to come to the table in a renegotiation will be our regulations for Norwegian fisheries and for Norwegian agriculture. I do not know what Karin Andersen, Lundtigen and all the others with the index finger aimed at our Nordic friends and Europe have to put in the balance in the agricultural sector and on the fisheries sector which should make it easier for us in a situation where we take the freedom to call it a 'disease', i.e. that democracy has been replaced for the benefit of the market. There are no limits to inaccuracy that can be identified as regards the relationship of other parties to the largest and most powerful market in the world – which opens up access to 80 pst. of Norwegian exports, which ensure that the wheels in the private sector run around in Norway? So you call this a 'disease' – which has spread to all parties in Norway! What you do is you want to cut the main pulse wound to everything that happens to private businesses and export industries in Norway. We should be very careful about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e724	The representative Karin Andersen asked me: What do the social democrats in Europe want more of when they want more EU? I actually said that in my post: they want more growth-promoting policies – not just cuts to balance deficits. Because we cannot spare ourselves out of this crisis in the countries of Europe; it must happen in combination with growth. Otherwise, I think I can sign everything Karin Andersen pointed to in his post. So the representative Olov Grøtting said that we should look at the alternatives to the EEA. Yes, let's have a debate on the alternatives to the EEA. There are alternatives, there is no doubt: a ‘smart’ EEA, as mentioned – i.e. taking more than fish and agriculture, trade policy and eurocooperation out of the agreement – a free trade agreement, the EU has neighbourhood policy. But to those who want it: can't you start by saying, what is the purpose, what is the purpose, and what do you want to take out? Only then can we get a discussion about whether we're earned with a slimmer and different agreement. I don't think there is any agreement that can give companies equal treatment in the internal market, which is therefore a market for 80 pst. of our exports. But do we want to step out cooperation on defence policy, cooperation on defence material? Do you want us to go out of the many programmes that we work together on – R & D, education – a lot of programs? No country is involved in the cooperation projects other than EU members and EEA members. Do you not want the equal treatment that the EEA Agreement provides for us as individuals when we live in southern countries? When we study or take work there, we treat as the inhabitants of these countries. Is that the security and security that you want to remove? It is only the EEA Agreement that provides, none of the other agreements that the EU has with its neighbours, free trade agreements, the same level of security for people in those countries. Do you want to leave Schengen cooperation and reintroduce passports on Svinesund? Do you want to get out of police cooperation? Is legal cooperation desirable? It is a very enthusiastic, even here in the Chamber – also among parties that we now believe we should look at, or who have been opponents of the EEA Agreement – for Nordic cooperation. You look with light and light for opportunities to reduce border barriers that make it difficult to move across borders in the Nordic region. I don't think it's possible to build down those frontier barriers if we leave the EEA, because then we're out of the internal market, and it'll be the internal market rules that will be at the bottom of such cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e737	Norway needs Europe, Norway needs a Europe that is going well, Norway needs a Europe of economic growth. Europe is for Norwegian business alpha and omega. 70-80 pst. Norwegian imports and exports are just going to Europe. 200,000 Europeans work in Norway today. Europe's importance for the Norwegian economy today is infinitely high. If we are to have a private sector in Norway today that actually provides jobs, we need a good Europe. It makes it so extra provocative to hear parts of the left side as in its eagerness to defeat Europe, also causing itself the same defeats. Churchill said you can't stand in a bucket and believe that you can lift yourself up by pulling the handle. It's obviously some of the drugs that parts of the left-hand side haven't gotten. When the SV's sister parties in almost all of Europe today shout for less cut and more money, it is completely forgotten that one of the problems is that Europe is in a debt crisis because money has not been spent. At the same time, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and others when they say that one of the biggest challenges is that Europe lacks economic growth. But then you have to look at the measures that contribute to economic growth. Being part of building down, among other things. barriers to trade contribute to economic growth. Making employing people more profitable is contributing to economic growth. Finding problems related to Spain is not difficult. However, one of the challenges that is now being addressed is the protection of Spanish employment, where, until now, half a month’s pay per year has been paid. It's a law by Franco. It is quite clear that such schemes have contributed to the fact that the barriers to entry into the labour market have been too high. That's one of the reasons why you have a youth unemployment rate close to 50 pst. Me and Right want a good job protection. But at the same time it is quite different to want a good job protection than to see that job protection keeps people permanently out. To Karin Andersen, who is said to want speculation and not production: No, on the contrary. Is there anything Right and our sister parties in the rest of Europe really want, is getting speed in the economy, making sure that goods are produced, not only for domestic consumption, but also for exports. Then you will need both a tax system that places emphasis on it, you will need a job protection and a labour market that will help you to do so, and you will need trade access beyond Europe as a basis. Finally, I can't register anywhere in any of Lundtägen's sister parties that there is an eagerness for more central party politics, either here in Norway or elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e752	It is reasonably recognised that the European Union is facing significant problems. The Minister for Foreign Affairs had a humble attitude to the problems and acknowledged in the humility that there are some demanding systems being put to the test. The most demanding thing is that there is an economic union with a single currency, without you having a political union. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to admit that it will cause problems. In my first speech, I pointed out that the Union's ideology with the free movement of labour and capital in such a situation makes it very difficult to deal with fundamental challenges for the people living in the different countries. I described the consequences for working life. We have recently had a joyful debate, including in the trade union movement in Norway, on the consequences of this in Norway. This is demanding, this is important. They asked about alternatives. I concluded by saying that I am positive about democratic nation states with their own currency; it is a step forward. It is often presented as if Norway had a subordinate situation with the EU. We do not, of course, have that, we have a situation that is embarrassing, in the sense that we want to have mutual, useful trade relations and relations in other areas with the European Union. We're interdependent. We want a great economic relationship. We had that before the EEA Agreement, and we're going to have that under the EEA Agreement. We're going to have research and development, we're going to have a free movement of ideas, knowledge, knowledge and art – as many have said. We're going to have close relationships at all. But the essential feature of the alternative to an EEA agreement is that we should have a system that ensures the people's rule better in Norway than we have today, in order to ensure what are the three main pillars on which we as EEA opponents stand, namely equality between people in Norwegian society, protection of the environment, so that we have a long-term management of our natural resources and the ability to maintain international solidarity in relation to the privileged situation we are in. We're a different country. We're not going to be a different country that's seaworthy enough. We're going to be a different country that's a little, little hope for others. For us, then, an alternative to the EEA is better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e763	I would like to thank you for a good and broad debate, which has highlighted several aspects of my presentation – also some new issues. There have been some questions to me afterwards, which I will briefly comment on. To the representative of Nesvik, I would like to say that we will have a thorough debate on the EEA funding when the notification comes. I fully agree that these funds should also contribute to partnership between Norwegian actors and the countries with which we cooperate. We see more of that now than we saw before. When I ask for the floor now, it is because on behalf of the government I want to recognise all the citizens of the European Union who are in Norway and work and contribute to our economy, to our culture, to our value creation and to our diversity. This is something the Norwegian Storing has wanted. That's what Norway wants, and that's something we welcome. I was impressed when I met the Polish Prime Minister last week. He told me that his first visit to Norway was between June and September 1989, when he was a glass master and carpenter – he was an educated economist, but he could also build the craftsmanship college in Malangen in Troms. What he earned on it was the basis for moving on in his career in Poland. He got his first car. He was given the basis to become an active citizen of society. Prime Minister Tusk told us and His Majesty The King that Norway is the place where Polish workers are best received in Europe. He said it as a contrast to some other countries. It's because we have legislation, traditions and respect that makes us accept people who come and work. We are the country in Europe that per capita has most EEA citizens working in our country – up to 200,000. I believe that without that contribution, without Norway being part of that part of European cooperation, the Norwegian economy had had major problems. We had been a country that had also been less diverse, less exciting and less European at what's good, as it works today. At the same time, it imposes on us a responsibility which, for the government, is an absolute priority – to work for decent work, against social dumping and against the unprofessional conditions we see in parts of the world of work. This is a Norwegian problem, and it is a European problem. It is a problem of our time, as the representative Gullvåg very well described, and as we take the utmost seriousness, which we seek to influence and correct through Norwegian legislation and Norwegian activity. But I don't think the way to tackle this is to connect us from European processes, because this is about how the European economy evolves. That is why, together with the social partners, with the trade union movement in Europe, we need to have an active agenda for this, in order to take good care of Norwegian workers and all those from the EEA area who come and do invaluable work for Norway, for which we should be very grateful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e794	Now, just a few days before NATO's summit in Chicago, there's a good opportunity to travel a slightly wider debate on what's going to happen at the summit. There are also only a few days until NATO gathers again on American soil. It's actually the first time since 1999 in Washington that there's been a summit in the United States. It is an important arena to follow up the reform of the alliance in recent years, not least to pave the way further. The balance between core tasks and the close, neighbourhood initiative, towards the completion of the operation in Afghanistan in a constructive and as tidy a manner as possible, will be one of the main themes. The strategic concept adopted in Lisbon in 2010 has now been under implementation for a year and a half. It was a concept that pointed forward, but at the same time left a certain challenge in its implementation. Important issues such as deterrence doctrine, nuclear weapons, organisational development and organisational reform have had to be further developed in retrospect. The very extensive and demanding organisational changes in the alliance have also coincided in time with the most serious economic crisis in modern times, with very great consequences also for NATO. There have been some significant cuts in the defence budgets of our allies, perhaps particularly represented in the United Kingdom, Germany and the United States. It is more significant as a design factor today than you would like, and, unfortunately, also to a greater extent adopted policies and adopted reforms. At the same time as the implementation of the concept, NATO has adopted and launched the implementation of a very extensive change to both the civil organisation and, in particular, the headquarters and command structure. The concept explicitly commits the alliance to so-called continuous reform and efficiency improvement. It is absolutely necessary for an organisation that in many areas is still adapted to the cold war demands and military sizes. However, cutting or merging several hundred committees, the closure of several headquarters and a reduction of several thousand posts is not, of course, done in peace and deportability, whether there is a strong consensus on the need for change. Not least is the financial crisis, budget cuts and slimming of the organisation behind what should well be one of the main themes of the meeting, namely Smart Defence. It reflects to some extent the EU concept of pooling and sharing. After all, it is a concept of prioritisation, specialisation and multinational cooperation that the NATO Secretary-General has referred to as a sort of gap or bear for the future of the alliance. The economy is in the process of forcing solutions that have been talked about for years without going into anything, but of course the counterclaims are heavy, both national bureaucracy, defence industry, traditions and history. It is essential that there be enough political weight behind the talk of Smart Defence. NATO and the Member States have strictly failed to afford otherwise. At the same time, there is a challenge – including here: harmonisation of the military capabilities of the Alliance requires harmonisation of alliance policies. Member States are in many ways quite a bit away from a common priority and common threat analysis, just as they are well away from a common position on the use of military power. We can, of course, look at Germany's actions in the Libya conflict as an example of that. But financial crisis and cuts also have consequences for Norway, perhaps most clearly by having to contribute more on our own in our neighbourhoods, while at the same time being prepared to contribute more if the alliance asks. This is also one of the themes that remains in the long-term plan of defence, which Stortinget is now dealing with. Nuclear weapons are another central theme. It has also recently been debated in an interpellation debate here in the United Kingdom. A clear but realistic approach is important which takes account of the different considerations. There is no doubt that the tactical nuclear weapons currently in existence in Europe really have little military value and are politically debated. At the same time, the fear of many allies to disconnect the United States and Europe on this important issue must be taken into account. As long as nuclear weapons exist in potential opponents, NATO's capacity must also be real, and there must be a balance between conventional weapons and nuclear weapons. Let me also take this opportunity to recognise the Norwegian-Polish initiative that the Foreign Ministers both in Norway and in Poland mention in yesterday's New York Times. Getting serious dialogue with Russia about tactical nuclear weapons is very important. It is quite clear that this issue must be on the table in the further negotiations. Of course, there is also a clear expectation from the Norwegian side that Russia is conscious of this responsibility. There is a close link between the issue of deterrence and missile defence. The Obama administration has taken the lead in this matter, and we see a real, technical and operational development. It is important for the political cohesion of the alliance not to allow resistance, perhaps especially from Russia, to hinder progress and viable solutions. Russia has to be informed, but it has no veto right. And we might say that missile defense – something wrong – has been the lacmus test on an improved relationship between NATO and Russia. There is no doubt that there is a expectation in the air that the ISAF will be the last major out of area operation for NATO at a good time, but it is clear from the concept adopted in 2010 that crises and conflicts beyond NATO’s borders can pose a direct threat to the territory and population of the alliance. NATO will therefore engage where possible and necessary to prevent and manage crises, stabilise post-conflict situations and re-establish. In other words, the possibility of operations outside NATO's core area is still present, given that a situation should arise. The Libya operation is an example of a situation that can appear very quickly and very intensively, close to the alliance's core areas, how fast reaction is required. While the overall success of the operation can be considered successful, there is no doubt that it has also revealed significant weaknesses in the military capabilities of the alliance, not least reinforced by the uneven financial burden-sharing that exists in NATO. Without the Americans in the driver's seat, the ability of the alliance falls quite considerably, and it also showed NATO. Norway made an important and proper effort in Libya, and we must be prepared to do so again. NATO's dwindling in Afghanistan is continuing. It is now known that Norway’s PRT in Meymaneh will be closed already during this autumn. Although Norway will continue to contribute significantly to ISAF until the end of the operation, it will necessarily have an impact on the facility of our contributions. Gradually, the members of the alliance will be in the same situation. Then it is absolutely essential that countries and NATO, as an ally, keep the attention up to the end. There is always a high risk in such a phase of loss of attention and shifting attention to other areas. The outreach is going to be extremely demanding both technically and militarily – and not least politically. Of course, if burden-sharing and responsibility are shifted further, cohesion will be tested. The Committee was recently in Afghanistan – in the middle of March – talking a lot to both PRT, soldiers and military leaders down there, and they are concerned about the situation in which countries are now suddenly thinking differently about the time of extraction, with the result that some countries are unable to operate in some areas because they have ‘caveats’ and thus the burden becomes extra heavy on those countries that have not set up ‘caveats’. So it's a problem that's very much real. A collective responsibility for all members helping both the alliance and other member countries where possible must be a core. The Chicago Summit, in many ways, also marks a new stage for NATO, if you see the history of the alliance as a whole. In recent years, NATO has been defined in many ways according to its foreign missions and after its outreach operations. But NATO is far more than Afghanistan. NATO is an alliance that, for Norway, is a central cornerstone of security and defence policy. We also see that precisely because one can never plan for the next conflict, one must continue to have a flexible alliance that can handle both neighbourhoods and operations outside NATO's core area. It can be said that in recent years, whether in Kosovo, Libya or Afghanistan, the major operations of NATO have been carried out in many ways without NATO actively looking up the situation. This means that flexibility in the alliance is a crucial prerequisite for continuing to be a credible alliance that meets the military and political needs of allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e830	At the Lisbon Summit in December 2010, the Heads of State and Government of the NATO countries set the course for the next ten years to adopt a new strategic concept, which gave Norway a fresh impetus to refocusing NATO’s core tasks and defending its own neighbourhoods. At the Chicago meeting, the implementation of the concept will be central. The main question is: which NATO should we have in the future? Several developments put this issue at the forefront. Firstly, it is a fact that a number of allies are forced to reduce their defence budgets due to the severe economic crisis. Secondly, we are approaching the end of the international stabilisation force ISAF in Afghanistan, which has been NATO's dominant military operation in recent years, to which the interpellant pointed. Two questions then arise: How are we to safeguard the ability of our forces to interact when they no longer operate together on a daily basis in the field? And how should we best ensure cooperation with the ISAF partner countries, which have made invaluable contributions to NATO's last operations? Thirdly, we see a geographical shift with the emergence of new major powers, which we have debated on several occasions in Stortinget. The focus of security policy, like economic and foreign policy, is turning east towards Asia, as is the case in the United States. is reflected in the new strategy of the United States. These major, central issues form the backbone of the Chicago Summit. The meeting will discuss solutions and responses to many of these challenges. From the Norwegian side, we have worked systematically over a long period of time and have taken several of the initiatives that are now being taken. Let me highlight some main issues, first the defense package. The starting point is that the alliance must be able to meet the whole spectrum of future challenges. The package contains three main elements: Firstly, a more rational approach to cooperation and specialisation. Not all allies need to run with everything, to say it that way. By assisting and complementing each other in a more thoughtful way, the Member States are making better use of resources. This form of ‘smart defence’ is logical and rational, whether economic times are good or bad. We need to strengthen the interaction, and we need to improve the division of tasks and the exploitation of the total, common resources. Alliert patrolling the airspace of individual Member States, in which F-l6 aircraft from Norway have participated over Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, is one example of ‘smart defence’. The defence package will also contain a clear measure of what equipment and capacities NATO needs in 2020, and a better overview of the overall resources, so that the alliance can better decide who acquires what. The Libyan operation was successful in many ways, but it also revealed gaps in the alliance toolbox, especially in the European Allies, on which the interpellant was involved. The third element of the defence package shall ensure the ability of the NATO forces to cooperate effectively in Afghanistan. This means that there will be an increased focus on exercise while increasing the number of exercises. In this context, Norway has proposed that national headquarters be closely linked to the command structure of NATO, which will also contribute to smarter use of resources. Overall, this defence package will make NATO better equipped to safeguard the security of its Member States and meet the new challenges of our time. The package is well in line with Norway’s neighbourhood initiatives. Secondly, NATO’s new plan for Afghanistan is to be adopted at the summit. Following the closure of the ISAF operation in 2014, NATO’s involvement in Afghanistan will be limited and will focus on training and training of Afghan security forces. The summit will send a clear political signal that NATO is making a long-term commitment to Afghanistan. Norway will maintain a significant contribution until the closure of the ISAF operation, and we will commit to the predictable and long-term financing of the Afghan forces. I will come back to the extent of this support in the statement on Afghanistan on 29 May here in the United Kingdom. There is no doubt that Afghanistan's efforts have been demanding. At the same time, the handling by Afghan forces of several recent actions by rebel groups and other militant rebels shows that our work has given and continues to produce results. We find that Afghan security forces are becoming increasingly capable of handling complex operations and attacks. Thirdly, we will have more meetings in Chicago with NATO's partner countries. Participation in the military operations in Kosovo, Afghanistan and, most recently, Libya has shown the valuable role played by partner countries. The reinforced focus of the defence package on exercises will also benefit from partner cooperation. Afghanistan’s neighbouring country is also invited to a meeting that will focus, among other things, on the issue of drugs. on the practical aspects of ISAF's extraction and on the need for regional support for stability in Afghanistan. One of the greatest threats facing the alliance – and facing the world – is the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and new threats from long-range missiles. Therefore, the Lisbon Summit in 2010 decided to develop an allied missile defence. We have now started the first phase, which involves a limited ability to monitor and launch missiles across certain parts of NATO territory. The missile defence is not aimed at Russia, and Norway has been constantly, along with many allies, concerned with openness and cooperating as far as possible with Russia. The missile defense alone is not the answer to the danger of spreading weapons of mass destruction. The government will therefore continue with an active commitment to strengthen the non-proliferation regime, where the NPT Agreement plays a leading role, and work for cuts in the nuclear arsenals. It's the whole of our commitment that will give a countdown, and we're pleased that more and more allies see the need for an active role for NATO in the disarmament field as well. As the fifth main feature, I would like to highlight the review of NATO's defence and deterrence strategy. This was initiated in the context of the adoption of the new strategic concept of NATO at the Lisbon Summit. The main estimate in the report presented in Chicago is that NATO needs to adapt to a modern threat picture in order to remain an effective defence alliance. The report highlights the overall contribution of conventional forces, nuclear deterrence and missile defence. In addition, Norway, together with other countries, has received support for disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control contributing to security and stability and for efforts to reduce the number of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. A permanent disarmament and non-proliferation committee is now being set up in NATO – that is good. The report is based on the long-term objective of a nuclear-free world, while still emphasising the need for credible deterrence capacity. It is an important signal from NATO that the alliance's strategy now refers to the so-called negative security guarantees of the nuclear weapons states. This is an obligation to refrain from using nuclear weapons against countries which do not themselves have such weapons and which have joined the Non-Proliferation Agreement and which comply with their non-proliferation obligations. Norway, together with a group of Member States, has worked actively to obtain this reference. Sixth, Norway has been a driver of NATO's follow-up to UNSCR 1325 on women, peace and security. Before the summit, we have taken the initiative to establish a special position as High Level Special Representative for the work on resolution 1325 in the alliance. The proposal has been well received. The world is changing, and NATO must be able to adapt, not by throwing down tried and tested systems and principles, but by taking care of the best and introducing new ones. Norway has reason to be satisfied with what is to be adopted in Chicago. We are getting a new focus on NATO's core tasks and challenges in our neighbourhoods. The same applies to our views on disarmament, women's perspective and the connection of national headquarters to NATO's command structure. All of this supports the development of what is called a ‘smarter’ and more modern alliance. While maintaining the ability to take care of the core tasks, at a time when the economies of many of the Alliance's members are strained, we also need to be prepared for unexpected situations to arise and to demand that NATO and the international community, with the United Nations at its head, react quickly and effectively. We have a defence alliance that contributes to the fight against international terrorism, which strengthens a weakened state power in Afghanistan, which raises the common flag to counter piracy outside the Horn of Africa, and which intervenes against a Libyan regime that attacked its people. At the same time, NATO is now turning a greater proportion of its attention back to the core task: Article 5 and the defence of its own territory. This strengthens solidarity and the integration of the Member States and does not weaken NATO's ability to take responsibility for global security as well. Our increased focus on the neighbourhoods is also in line with the wider North Sea policy, the development of relations with Russia and our Nordic defence cooperation. Good neighbourhood is an effective security policy instrument. Faced with the new era, the basic values of the alliance are inconceivable. Solidarity and the democratic root party are the platform of the alliance. Cooperation with partners is also an expression that this is not a Western alliance that stands in some sort of ‘counterfeit’ relationship with the rest of the world. NATO is also constructively cooperating with non-partner countries, such as India and China, and with regional organisations such as the Arab League and the African Union. The increased attention of the United States to Asia and the emerging economies is quite natural. In a globalized world, any contribution to peace and stability in the states on the coasts of the Pacific and Indian Oceans will also benefit the transatlantic community. International policies are no longer a zero-sum game — if ever — and increased emphasis on Asia is not necessarily at the expense of Europe. On the contrary, it is emphasised from the American side that the US needs NATO to be stronger in its cooperation with the countries of Asia in terms of security policy. What makes it attractive for partners and others to cooperate with NATO is not only the organisation's military resources, but also the political strength resulting from the alliance's coherence and value base. In parallel with the adaptation to a new era, we take care of the primary capacity of the alliance: the cohesion and the collection of democratic values.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e896	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. That seems to be quite a consensus, I think, on what are the main lines and the main priorities, both on the part of NATO and on the part of Norwegian. It is important to stress, as we now look at the dwindling – and outreach – in Afghanistan, that this will coincide in time with another important event, namely the presidential elections in the country. There's already pretty significant positioning ahead of it. Many people are concerned about the combination of the extract and the fact that you are now in a situation where the political power game takes proper hold. This is something we are given the opportunity to get back to in the debate after the statement on Afghanistan, but I think it is worth mentioning in this context as well. In order to deepen what I so far had to say in my main post, the alliance solidarity: Many people believe that the alliance solidarity will now be put to the test – everyone wants to have a clean and decent exit from Afghanistan, but no one wants to be the last to leave. It is felt that countries either have thematic ‘caveats’, meaning ‘restrictions’, that they can only work with either ANP or ANA, or have geographical ‘caveats’, that they can operate only in specific areas. Countries that do not have the type of ‘caveats’ will experience a very high level of pressure. It's more difficult to get alliance solidarity to last, simply because you have to set up for each other when necessary, even in such a demanding phase. I think there is little doubt that the phase of NATO now entering Afghanistan is going to be the most demanding in a long time. There are also many who have discussed — and will probably be a topic at the summit — the burden-sharing between the United States and Europe. Perhaps Robert Gates has said that – just before he left as Secretary of Defense in the United States – that he had a clear expectation that the Europeans would now have to take greater responsibility for their own security. It coincides in time with the fact that the US's focus on natural causes is turning quite significantly to the east – President Obama calls himself the first Pacific President. It is therefore evident that there are military implications for Europe for the United States to withdraw from the countries in which they have been present and that they are building up in Asia. At the same time, there is no doubt that Gates is touching a point that has been a topic in the alliance for a very long time, that is, the burden-sharing, which has been very distorted, and which gives an impact when you're going to respond quickly to operations, like this. The one in Libya. You see the holes in the military capabilities. There is no doubt that this is a discussion that will be central in the years to come. I believe that if one is able to achieve political harmonisation – not just military harmonisation – within Smart Defence, I think one might be on the way to achieving some of the things that perhaps the Americans in particular have been concerned about for the Europeans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e909	Let me in this post thank you interpellant for traveling this interpellation, which I think is a very good way to talk about NATO, and which is very time-relevant, since we have a coming NATO summit. The representative, the committee leader, says that there is a sensitive phase in Afghanistan we are going into – combined with excerpts, political instability, presidential elections and ambiguities around the hour table. I agree with that description. I don't think we should be blackpainting it. We have to go to that process with clear expectations that rules of play will be followed. I fully agree with the representative Eriksen Soreide on this with an orderly exit. From the Norwegian side, many years ago we underlined the importance of 'inn with the Allies, out with the Allies' – in agreement with the Afghan authorities. In many ways, we have been honoured that this should be Norway's way of working. We also have to keep others responsible for working that way. I share the concern of the committee's chairman that if it were to be as it is said in a popular language, that it would be crowded in the door, that it would be a rush towards the exit, it would be an unworthy and dangerous way of ending the mission. You've been able to see signs and speculations that it can go in that direction. I'm more hopeful than that. That's what I'm experiencing at the NATO Foreign and Defence Minister's meeting last month, and in the light of what we're seeing about how the countries are actually doing. However, we cannot be certain, and therefore this must be Norway’s clear message and also the way Norway acts. I believe that now when we put ourselves in the harness to finish our PRT mission in Meymaneh earlier than planned, it's in agreement with and at the request of the overall ISAF planning, and we're going to make ourselves relevant in other areas. That alliance solidarity is absolutely essential to maintain. Of course, the dwindling phase is also vulnerable in terms of ground uncertainty in Afghanistan, and it still has to be that we give priority to the safety of our peoples at the very top. Finally, I just want to say that in terms of burden-sharing, there is an important debate that has always been in NATO and a debate that I believe Norway can stand up to, when we look at what we have presented in the long-term plan, what we have done in the last ten years in transforming our own defence, the level at which we are investing in our own security, and what we demonstrated in the form of Norway's ability to quickly and effectively be a contributor to the Libyan operation. It was then pointed out by many that there were gaps in NATO's planning and weaknesses in NATO's capabilities. Nothing of that criticism was relevant to Norway – on the contrary, it was highlighted by many that Norwegian and Danish aircraft were among those who did the job in full. Burden distribution is important for Norway, it has to do with the security of the alliance and the indivisibility of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e924	The strategic concept adopted in Lisbon in 2010 highlighted several of the concerns of Norway. There was a stronger emphasis on NATO’s core task: to be the collective security guarantee of the Member States. The goal of working for a world without nuclear weapons and the importance of seeing Russia as a strategic partner was established. According to what the foreign minister now says, it seems that follow-up is well maintained in Chicago, and that's good. This NATO summit will take place at the threshold of the phasing-out of the ISAF operation in Afghanistan, which has now been the subject of the conclusion of the most long-standing and comprehensive international operation in which NATO has played a central role. An important item on the agenda will be the involvement of the ISAF countries in Afghanistan after 2014. We've always been clear that when our military engagement ends, it doesn't mean that our Afghan involvement is over. We will continue to assist the Afghan authorities in their task of creating security and development, through financial support for both the Afghan security forces and economic and social development. This will have broad political support here in the Chamber. But I think we should be aware that the forthcoming stage in the creation of an Afghanistan that is not once again becoming a haven and a haven for international terrorism can be challenging. We must recognise that the optimism about what we should achieve in developing democratic values and understanding and respect for human rights in Afghanistan was too great. Much has been achieved, but much remains. That's why we're going to tackle the next stage of great realism. We need what Lenin called “revolutionary patience” when he met the expectations of rapid results after the revolution. For NATO as an alliance, it is also important to draw the lessons of this operation — as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs — in terms of the interaction between NATO countries. What should these experiences mean for future exercises? What can there be from experience into the new mantra Smart Defence? After all, the core of this concept must be to get more defence out of the defence budgets of the alliance as a whole, through work sharing, through cooperation, through co-operation, and through cooperation on the renewal and development of defence material in order to try to mitigate the cost-driven elements of technological development as long as it has created within the military-industrial complex. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a good overview of the security policy challenges facing the alliance. I would like to highlight one more aspect, namely the economic crisis. One thing is that the economic crisis in Europe involves some significant cuts in the defence budgets of the European NATO countries. This can also force innovation, more ‘smart defence’ and more cooperation. Such need teach naked woman to spin, needy budgets can teach countries to get more defense out of the crowns. But more serious can be the social unrest, as we now see coming in the countries where unemployment is greatest, especially among young people. We're at the threshold of social distress in several countries. We see democracy being put to the test, primarily in Greece, but several countries can experience the same thing. Although there is much evidence that the United States may be on the way out of the crisis in the sense that economic growth is beginning to rise, the country continues to face serious challenges with its budget deficits and trade deficits. For this reason, the management of the economic crisis – in Europe and globally – is a key element of the future security policy. We do not solve the problems of social unrest in Greece or the failure of confidence in the future of half of the young people who are out of work in Spain, with Smart Defence. Finally, let me underline the importance of Norway also in Chicago giving a clear voice to the alliance's emphasis on disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control. These are important aspects of work on relaxation and safety. It is good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs keeps pressure on this, as he does through the article in the New York Times today, together with his Polish colleague, about the tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. The tactical nuclear weapons have played their part and should be withdrawn. NATO must be an alliance based also on an obligation to refrain from the first use of nuclear weapons against countries that have renounced this type of weapon. So the reference to this in the Chicago document will be joyful. If not countries that have nuclear weapons show the will to build up, the moral voice towards countries that they believe should acquire such weapons, and that we must do what we can to prevent them from happening. I would also like to support the positions announced by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his statement in Chicago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e945	The fine thing about this debate is that there is not a debate on yes or no to NATO, but a clarification of NATO's footing party in Norway and the Norwegian footing party in NATO. Reciprocality in the common experience of being part of something is something both of which benefit. I think that's good, because it kind of gives predictability and stability to the whole thing. The government has also made clear in the long-term plan currently under consideration. Once again, it is emphasised that NATO is the cornerstone of the international security policy, and it also points out the role of the United Nations in this way. Once again, there is a continuation of a Norwegian tradition. So here you talk about what's going to be the most important thing for the Chicago meeting about what to do. There is no doubt, at least in my opinion, that the economy of all NATO countries is the key to success or the basis for any explanation of what is not achieved. As in everything else, policy is about priority, and at a time when many countries around the world – perhaps with the exception of Norway and a few others – are struggling, perhaps defence efforts are not what is at the top for natural reasons. Then the big question is, how do you manage to maintain that focus – because it is absolutely necessary? To date, one of the important things in NATO has been ‘burden sharing’. Yes, but in what way is it “burden sharing” relative to participating? Is that the volume that counts? Is that the type of tool you're contributing to? Do you have the same understanding of it? At least I think that if you are to have an organisation you are involved in, you are dependent on getting – and having – mutual respect between the Member States. Then you have to find ways to do it that make sure that now you're not just talking about "burden sharing," but that it actually feels like that. You can also ask questions about doing things in smart ways today. Changing the structure will clearly affect the country, and let us hope that there will not be a discussion about jobs in individual countries, but rather about what is optimal for NATO as a tool for all those involved here. Then to Afghanistan. There is no doubt that Afghanistan has been and is a major, major challenge for NATO. It's pretty interesting to talk to people who were there ten to twelve years ago. You could drive around in Afghanistan that time. You felt reasonably safe, you felt reasonably safe, and you had a completely different range than you now have. It seems in a way that things have become worse and worse and harder and harder. Then, of course, we can say that there has been no major attack outside Afghanistan with forces from there. If that's the success criterion, it's been a success. If we talk to those who have lost some of their girlfriends, they might say that to us it didn't feel like a success. If we look at all the resources used there, towards what we achieved, it's probably that political we can't say anything but that it's been a success. But it has to be a success that also has a certain bismach when we look at the negative consequences that are there. Our objective is no doubt: it is that it should be better in Afghanistan for every Afghan and thus for the whole world. But to say that it's an endless success, I think at least I'll be careful with it for my part. Then to the United States and Europe. Once again, there's no doubt that even if the United States is struggling financially, the United States is still the bearer of this. I'm perfectly open to Europe and Norway being more dependent on the United States than on the other side. Of course, we're good listeners, we're good co-players. But in the big picture, if you compare Second Fleet Virginia to what Norway has, we're still a small nation even though we've made big investments. So it depends on how you choose to measure it. So it's been talking about nuclear weapons. Of course, that's very important. It's possible that I haven't attended the class well enough, but it's been a while since I heard President Obama talk about World Zero. There was an ambition, there was a lot of talk about it, but there's been a lot more silence lately. Yet I want from this pulpit to give tribute to the U.D. and the FFI who have been with and made tools to verify nuclear weapons that have built up their arsenals. We're the ones who are not nuclear powers, but who can contribute to it anyway. I think that's positive, and I think we should include ourselves in this. So I think and hope that the future becomes even smarter than it is today. The glimmer with Smart Defence, at my discretion, is that if the risk of loss of human life gets smaller, the threshold for using power will be greater. I'm not sure, of course, I hope it's not like that, but still: any development of different tools that can reduce the risk of human life is basically a plus. But of course, we should all hope that that is not necessary. In conclusion, I support what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said about the North Region focus. Let's invite the NATO countries here, let's focus on what NATO can contribute in terms of peace and stability, but also what they can contribute in terms of the civil dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e962	There's an important interpellant that matters today, because it's quite obvious that NATO's future will also very much affect our own security and security policy situation. With reference to the previous debate, I would like to tell the House that last week I attended a democracy conference in Vilnius under the auspices of the Parliamentary Forum for Democracy. It is clear that the Baltic countries, the former central and eastern European countries, have a fear under the safety net that is likely to be much greater than the situation that we ourselves experience. They have been faced with an internal situation through the financial crisis in which general democratic principles have also been a real challenge. We see that non-democratic development and economic development go hand in hand, but that anti-democratic forces and often corruption are what appear to be alternatives. They refer – to a significant degree of concern – to the situation in Russia, but now also to the current situation in Ukraine, which means that concerns are far out of the reach of the countries referred to. One thing these have in any case in common, and it is that our Nordic neighbouring countries should perhaps be more interested in the situation in these countries. It's obvious that NATO's new strategic concept is going to change as a result not only of economic change, but also because the old defence game, the old concept, is not as persistent as before, and new challenges are at the doorstep. Monitoring, control and terror have more and more taken over the old threat concepts, and that is something we have to deal with. At the same time, we're in a situation where it's quite obvious that we can't borrow anything much longer than before, both financially and economically, and rely more on the strength of the NATO Alliance than our own strength. This is true in the situation that has been highlighted by many in today's debate, in the development of our northern regions and in the common guidelines and ambitions that we ourselves have put into this context. There is no doubt, as the inter-pellant stressed, that in the case of regional stocks of tactical nuclear weapons, we have an estimated 1 000–1,500 of these on the Kola peninsula. Weapons are intended and usable for regional use. I assume that there is no one in this room who knows any kind of imagination sees that these are ever going to be applied. Therefore, it must be a political objective to eliminate these, while at the same time an objective of Norwegian policy must be to include these types of nuclear weapons in the START negotiations that will take place in the future. There is no doubt that in today's situation we have to deal with the obligations that we have the opportunity to do ourselves. We have an economic strength that almost no other NATO country has. It is easy to understand the argument that the United States is using in Europe, where it chooses to step down the financial contributions in a situation where the world community is increasingly asking for a world police force that can be set up where the UN does not. We have seen it through the history of Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, and there are new situations in which we know that some institution needs to intervene where the need may be. This means that we must participate in the future debate. We must ensure that the sustainable principles of the NATO doctrine are established. This must and must be in line with the democratic development that we see ahead of us both in our own neighbourhood and in the whole alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e975	I want to join those who thanked the interpellant for an important interpellant. I can reproduce to the representative Ellingsen that also a purely yes-and-no-debate on a slightly more ideal plan could be exciting to have a day. But it's not time for it today. Not long ago we had a very useful and good debate on nuclear disarmament here in the Chamber, and the Foreign Minister had a very good chronicle on the theme of recent pressure. I am proud of Norway's line in the nuclear issue and the will of the government to go ahead and give priority to this work internationally. It must of course also apply in NATO. There may be considerable disagreement between Member States here, but there should be broad agreement from Norway that the first-use strategy in NATO and the importance of nuclear weapons in the alliance must be abolished and reduced, respectively. A common defence alliance based on the premise that it reserves the right to use nuclear weapons, even to use them first, is not only ultimately inhuman; it is, as the representative Ivar Kristiansen was in, not in line with the world of reality – fortunately. The importance of nuclear weapons in the defence concept of different countries and alliances is a global mistrust and a threat to the security of all of us. The ability of our allies to destroy our neighbours does not increase anyone's security. Therefore, Norway’s clear line must be a non-nuclear NATO as part of the strategic concept. The belief in the excellence of nuclear weapons is an out-of-date way of thinking. They all know that, most of us. It hangs again from the cold war and stands in the way of the disarmament work that Norway and many other countries support. Specifically, we, as many people have been involved, should focus on the deployment and modernisation of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. In Turkey, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Italy, these are very current issues. We need increased transparency about these weapons and how many weapons are outsourced. Weapons should be withdrawn. The fact that countries such as Lithuania and Hungary, for historical reasons, want such weapons deployed in Europe because of their relationship with Russia historically, is not enough argument to maintain the deployment of these types of weapons in our region. If Russia is to be included in a development with faster and more real disarmament, it is now necessary to take such steps. I fully agree with the Foreign Minister when he said earlier that it serves NATO that the alliance adapts to today's challenges, the development of a threat picture and the global non-proliferation regime. There's still a long way to go, I'll add. I would also like to add that a surprise attack by Russia cannot in any way be said to be Europe's biggest security challenge, and a defence policy is then unlucky. That's why I also join in the boast of the Foreign Minister's initiative together with Poland, which was under pressure in the New York Times recently. Last year NATO was responsible for coordinating and implementing the action in Libya in the context of UN Resolution 1973. Norway contributed heavily in the early months of the war. We participated in 615 missions there. Norway was involved and elected alone in 1999 by bombing Serbia, which did not have a UN mandate, and which was unable to prevent the humanitarian disaster in Kosovo. So last year, Norway participated in supporting an action with a UN mandate, which, although controversial, had basic support in much wider areas, both nationally and internationally. For Norway as a small country, it should be absolutely essential that international law and humanitarian law have as strong a position as possible at international level. That is why we believe it must be absolutely essential for Norway to have a UN mandate when we participate in international military operations. Equally important is that we can face the operations we participate in and participate in, that we have an overview of the consequences and impacts, and that we take responsibility for the consequences and effects of our own actions. When civil life is lost, we need to know why, and we need to clarify the responsibility. If we are responsible for the loss of civil life, we must provide compensation. This is not just about wanting strict and predictable international rules, but not least about the need for the UN to have legitimacy as an institution. Whether the Responsibility to Protect Institute is to be viable or have legitimacy, it is not to live with that many, and far from just NATO's traditional opponents, believe that the mandate was extended in the final phase of the war, and that unnecessarily many lives were lost. The much-discussed, recent report by Human Rights Watch provides the basis for a debate on this which we should seize. Here Norway should deliver a clear message of openness and willingness to review in NATO. In the future, if we are to have international support for action with the UN mandate to protect civilians, we must first be sure that everything is going right and, secondly, ensure the necessary trust in the world community that makes it possible. This also has NATO, as a very strong and central military party, an independent responsibility to provide, and it's in Norway's interest to be a driver, also in Chicago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e994	The Chicago meeting is going to be a very important meeting for NATO. Today’s discussion has covered several of the important themes. At the same time, I believe that we must not lose sight of the importance of human rights for the basis on which we base the NATO alliance, and that, therefore, human rights must also have a very central place in the meeting that is going to take place in Chicago. When the logistics situation in Afghanistan is as difficult as it is, when the route through Pakistan on repeated occasions has been met with attacks from both the Taliban and Al Qaida, several of our allies have looked at base solutions and logistics solutions from the north. One of the countries where there is a permanent NATO presence is Uzbekistan. Uzbekistan is one of the most cruel dictatorships in the world today. The country is ruled unilaterally, without the rule of law and without the normal principles of democracy and respect for human rights. Any prisons, torture, and even inhuman things that we almost don't talk about, like putting a human in a pot to then turn up the heat and wait for him to be boiled, take place in Uzbekistan. It's based on a very good report from Human Rights Watch, which allows you to go further in detail, if you want to, about all the human rights violations that actually take place. I believe that the Foreign Minister on behalf of Norway, on behalf of the common basis of values that we actually have in the NATO Alliance, should address the strong issues and reservations that need to be made before contracts are concluded for loans of bases and permanent presence in countries that are fundamentally undemocratic and that go in a fundamentally wrong direction with regard to human rights. The situation related to NATO's logistics base in Uzbekistan is not something you can sweep under the carpet, but something you have to discuss openly and honestly. Taking it up at the NATO meeting in Chicago will be the absolute best way to do it. We cannot, even if there is a need for logistics solutions to enter Afghanistan, look through what is happening in the country where we have now been present and which has become increasingly important for several contributors in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1008	First, I would like to thank you for a very good, substantive debate. Of course, we who are passionate about foreign, security and defence policy would like to see a full hall – but rather than focusing on those who are not here, we must commend those who are here and participate in the debate in a good way. I think it is important to stress, when we talk about Afghanistan, what is the reason Norway, and our allies, are in Afghanistan. It is to prevent the country from becoming a haven of terrorism again. It's important to stick to it. The representative Svein Roald Hansen said that we had too much optimism about the development of democracy. I think that optimism was partly created by a need for the Norwegian political arena to provide other reasons for our presence in Afghanistan than what is really the reason. Building a stable Afghan society is something that will contribute to making it viable in the long term, including in the case of the Afghan population, and not least to preventing Afghanistan from becoming a marshal for international terrorism. So building institutions, building schools -- very important things -- wasn't why we went in. But it's an important consequence of our presence, and what helps to leave behind a manageable situation. There have been several interesting moments from several of the representatives. I just want to say that the discussion that the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen is drawing up, about Responsibility to Protect, about the presence in the command and control structure, is two major debates that I would like us to have the full interview about. For them, it is important — both to lay down criteria for the Reality of Responsibility to Protect and to be applied in future conflicts, and that Norway must be alert when it comes to the issue of having the North in the command and control structure. It is an important part of ensuring legitimacy and ensuring that we also have control of the operations. Finally, back to the nuclear debate: as I said, I would like to commend the Norwegian-Polish initiative. I think that everything that can contribute to a realistic and clear approach to the issue, in particular to get Russia to speak – it is those who in number are the most superior, and therefore important to be responsible – all such actions I think are of the good. At the same time, however, it must be acknowledged that in NATO too, the debate on nuclear weapons has turned around a great deal since Obama’s Global Zero initiative in 2009, for the more of the countries are now more concerned with the United States as a nuclear guarantor than actually contributing to real disarmament. That's a lot of dimensions. There is disagreement between countries, but the Norwegian-Polish initiative can in this way make a good contribution to raising the debate out of the slightly fixed situation that is just now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1021	I too would like to thank you for the debate and on behalf of the government just saying that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and I have many good things to do here at the Chicago Summit. There will be one summit, but there will also be some meetings on the brink of it, in which we are now well prepared to attend, both in terms of Norway as a NATO member and what I experience with the political platform. So I'll make a few brief comments after the posts we've heard. With regard to disarmament and the role of nuclear weapons, the chairman of the Committee is right in saying that there is a rather lively debate in NATO, and there are points of view – with slightly different reasons – that cover most aspects of the matter: trailers, opponents, skeptics, enthusiasts. You see a lot of the history of NATO and the history of the countries when you also see the positions. As for Obama's speech in Praha, where he re-examines the vision of a nuclear-free world, I don't feel that it has slipped in the background. But it's like NATO's strategic concept is a combination of conventional weapons and nuclear weapons. Norway has been working to bring about disarmament defined as a reliable, security policy promotion. We did that. I feel that we have managed to build alliances with others. That is why the Polish-Norwegian initiative is important. Poland and Norway may have traditionally adopted slightly different positions in this area. We find it critical that Russia both argues with and appears to be implementing the deployment of nuclear missiles in Kaliningrad as a security policy message to neighbouring countries. It does not belong in modern Europe, and we should be clear about that. It also underlines NATO solidarity. Then we'll see how this debate will go. At least I feel that there is a modernisation in the thinking around what is the sum of what NATO is going to present – first in the strategic concept and then in the issues of our capabilities. Then I think the representative of Skovholt Gitmark has a good point when he points out what is happening in neighbouring countries around Afghanistan. It is clear that we are being challenged here, in the sense that at least for Norway, when we think about transit, it is about getting equipment safely home and ending the mission in Afghanistan safely. However, it also provides an opportunity to put the issue on the agenda in relation to countries to which we can probably get a kind of dependency over a shorter period of time, because the situation in the region is difficult. But I fully agree – with which I also concluded my interpellation – that the basis for NATO is not the individual weapon and the individual soldier; it is the basis of value. That's the requirement to get into the alliance, and it's the glue that binds the alliance together. Thank you for the debate, and thank you to the interpellant for traveling it a few days before the summit in Chicago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1038	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1052	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1061	First, as the rapporteur on the matter, I would like to thank the Committee on good cooperation. Despite different approaches from position and opposition, we have succeeded in writing together in some essential areas. I'm glad, and it's also worth noting. Norwegian electricity supply is mainly based on renewable hydropower. In 2009, Norway’s total power output was 133 TWh. 95 pst. Of this was hydropower. The rest divided by approx. 1 TWh wind power and approx. 5 TWh thermal. Norway has strong natural conditions to significantly increase the production of renewable energy. The 2010 energy status of the NVE shows that the remaining potential for hydropower in Norway is more than 20 TWh. Then you ignore everything that is protected or rejected earlier. Most of this potential is small-scale. The potential for land-based wind power is also high in Norway. NVE and Enova have estimated that by 2025 it will be possible to expand between 17 and 21 TWh land-based wind power. Today, under 1 TWh of this potential is being produced. The theoretical potential for offshore wind power is even greater. Depending on the depth of the operation, the wind power potential on the Norwegian base is between 18 and 420 TWh. As if this is not enough, we have a great potential for the expansion of saline power, tidal power, wave power and bioenergy. Overall, the potential of these technologies is estimated to be close to 100 TWh. We can thus conclude that Norway is a country blessed with great renewable energy resources. We're already an energy storm power, and we have the prerequisites for getting even much bigger. Unfortunately, there are currently serious limitations to the potential to trigger this potential. Firstly, we have a treatment period for new concession applications that are too long. Secondly, we have a lack of capacity in the mains power supply. According to Energy Norway, there are now more than 800 concession requests for the development of water and wind power and are waiting to be dealt with at NVE. 600 of these concession applications concern small power plants. The treatment period for each installation may be up to five years. There has been a necessary strengthening of concessional appropriations in the last few years. Nevertheless, the overall duration of the concession is too long. There is a joint committee that repeats in this setting. Therefore, there will be a need to strengthen capacity both for the treatment of concession applications in the NVE and for the appeal treatment in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The Christian People's Party also believes it is important to look at simplifications in the procedures for the proceedings that can speed up the process. The large expected build-up of power that will be put in place once we have received the green certificates will also present new and major challenges for the grid. Today's power grid is an effective bottleneck against new power expansions and new power consumption. While Sweden has four parallel 400 kV power lines from north to south in the country, which branch to eight sections in central lines, we still lack a continuous 400 kV power line from north to south in our own country. As of today, the whole of North Norway is effectively cut off from expanding wind power, even though this is where we have the greatest potential. It is serious that today’s long processing time for both power generation and new grid expansion can result in power projects not having access to green certificates. The consequence of this will be that Norwegian electricity customers pay for power development and value creation in Sweden. We have to make sure that's not the case. The Christian People's Party agrees with the rest of the opposition that there is a need for a plan of action aimed at reducing the overall duration of treatment in concession cases. Simplification of legislation should be developed with less overlap, more efficient processing and better coordination between energy and environmental authorities. The Christian People's Party also supports the development of time-limits for the handling of energy installations by NVE and OED and their sanctioning regimes. I am addressing the proposals to which the Christian People's Party are co-adapters in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1089	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1092	First of all, like the rapporteur, I would like to start by saying that this is an attitude in which the Committee stands together on a lot of both the description of reality and the assessment of the need to achieve faster concessional processes. It is an overall committee which notes that the queue for the examination of concession applications at NVE per day is too long. Concession treatment is, of course, a recurring issue when discussing renewable efforts in the Storting and barriers. We've had a lot of long discussions about green certificates. We have concluded an agreement with Sweden that means that more than 26 TWh of new renewable energy will enter the market by 2020. It is important in itself, but we also have a clear ambition that much of it will be realized in Norway. It was also pointed out in comments to the Electricity Certificate Act. We want it to generate industrial activity in Norway, to generate the development of renewable technologies in Norway, so this is an ambition that is more than just the production of kilowatts. That's why it's important to take these barriers seriously. There are two areas that point out as completely obvious obstacles to that happening. One of them is online, and it treats online messages as the next case here in the hall. The second is the concession treatment of the power projects. So you can't have concessional applications so long that it's impossible to get started by 2020. There is a lot of reason why the focus is as large as it is on concession treatment from the government. Over the last few years, NVE appropriations have increased sharply. It took us a while to see the results. It has its natural explanation in that teaching new case handlers after all takes some time, but I expect and believe that you are now on the right track. In any case, the figures clearly show that much more concession requests are being taken away than was done a few years ago. So the committee also says collectively that there is a need for a systematic review of the procedures, so that we ensure that the treatment period decreases. My impression is that the work is done, e.g. by becoming more aware of examining several applications in the same area in the context. So priority criteria for wind power and guidelines for wind power and small-scale power have been put in place, and that is good. Then the opposition parties propose an expert committee. I have to say that I doubt that a sample will be the answer to the challenges that we have here. I have more faith that we are doing the job that needs to be done, and we are equipping both NVE and OED, which is responsible for the complaint handling, with the resources that are actually needed to take the amount of the case away, and that you have a critical attitude on the whole as to whether the work is done well enough and whether the work can be better organised. As regards the concession treatment of large network deployments, we will come back to that in the next debate on the online messaging, where there are notified changes in the concession system and where the intention is to reduce time use. I just want to say very briefly that I believe it is a very reasonable approach to ensure that you get a political clarification of the need for more web expansion far earlier in the process than has been the case to date. It is more democratically correct, in my opinion, but I am also convinced that it will lead to a much simpler process in the course of the process than what we have seen recently. So I think it's good that the committee here insists that this is a proposal attached to the protocol, and that we have a constant focus on it, a continuous impatience in the Stortinget after ensuring that the concessional treatment period goes down, so that we actually realize the power projects that should naturally be realized in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1111	Norwegian hydropower is industry, it's industry, it's community construction, and it's good environmental policy. The large power companies are lifting large renewable energy projects to the joy of the whole country — and even of the rest of the world. For owners of planned smaller power plants, the economic promise is often much greater than the available capital, and often there is a high risk and requirement for very long investments that underlie such investment. Based on a total hydropower potential in Norway of over 200 TWh, it is about 30 TWh, i.e. 15 pst., which is either waiting for treatment or is so-called residual potential. That's a lot. In addition, it must be said that there is a high likelihood that parts of what is referred to as residual potential in this case of a total of 23 TWh will not be realised quickly enough due to long processing time and the need for recovery from investors. The concession period is too long — the Committee agrees — but it has been too long for many years without the proper functioning of the measures. It is proposed in this case that, among other things: is presented with a plan of measures that can be implemented rapidly to reduce the overall concession processing time for electricity generation and transmission networks. That is a good suggestion. I see the proposal as a willingness for a shorter period to organise the concession procedure within sound frameworks without a reduced quality for treatment, in order to realise good projects within the time limit of the electricity certification scheme. It makes sense, and if you want to take a force to do it, you are in favour of the proposal, and if you don't want to, you can only rely on Report. St. 14 for 2011-2012 on the deployment of the mains. However, it alone does not contain the changes required for an offensive procedure in order to achieve targets by the deadline, and it is not as concrete as an action plan could be. In the letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy attached to the case, the Council of State writes: ‘I believe that today’s planning and concessional treatment are mainly well suited to achieving the objectives of the network policy’. When we know that the realisation of small-scale power plants is closely linked to the network policy in order to deliver power produced, it is rather disappointing to read that one is not willing to look at a package of measures to reduce the process queue. This, in my view, slows down the development of good environmental policies, slows down good rural policies, and slows down the willingness of basic owners and others to invest for the future. For landowners in the districts, it is particularly important to be able to develop the property safely in new, productive directions that serve both local business and workplaces and give the landowners something extra to live on, and that they are allowed to realise this within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1127	Much of the Norwegian industry is built on the basis of our natural resources, and two conditions lead to a new picture of investment in new renewable energy production. Firstly, the climate challenge represents that we and our good neighbours in Europe have set targets for a greater share of renewable energy. Secondly, we have recently concluded an agreement with Sweden on a common electricity certificate market to stimulate the emergence of 26.4 TWh new renewable energy production by the end of 2020. Both parts represent an opportunity window for Norway, Norwegian energy producers, Norwegian communities and Norwegian industry. This space of opportunity wants the Right to make use of it, and we want to facilitate a policy that stimulates this type of investment. The scheme of electricity certificates requires Norwegian consumers to finance half of this scheme irrespective of whether the investments in new renewable energy production come in Norway or Sweden. For the right, it is therefore important that the minimum half, i.e. 13.2 TWh is invested in Norway. I doubt that Norwegian consumers and Norwegian businesses are interested in subsidising investments in Sweden. The fact that the right-wing promotion of the currently discussed representative proposal is the recognition that the time taken for the concession to new projects – both new renewables and infrastructure projects – is long enough to represent a bottleneck in view of exploiting the potential for 2020. The case-handling time for new concession applications is long both for initial treatment in Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate, NVE, and for appeals in the Oil and Energy Department. In particular, this applies to small-scale applications. According to Energy Norway, there are more than 800 concession applications for the development of water and wind power and are waiting to be addressed in NVE. About 600 of these are small power applications. If these projects are to fall under the scheme of electricity certificates, they must be in operation by the end of 2020. Today we write May 15, 2012. This means that there are 3150 days left to turn the start button on a new renewable energy project, if you want to make use of the subsidy scheme that the common electricity certificate market with Sweden represents. The development of some energy projects is extensive and time consuming even after any concession has actually been granted. This means that concessions should probably be finally clarified by 2016-2017 in order for them to be included in the Electricity Certificate Scheme. When we know at the same time that the treatment time for new energy projects can be up to five years, this means that the issue of faster concession treatment is over-mature in relation to taking real action. The NVE has increased the procedural capacity – according to the letters of the Council of State to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 28 March 2012, the number of annual works in NVE concession treatment has doubled since 2005 and the NVE has made changes to speed up proceedings. According to the same letter, there are also changes in the focus and resources of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The question is whether this is enough. From the Right, we are impatient to get results in the form of several final concessions. That's why I'm glad that we and the other opposition parties are united to require faster processing of energy projects. We are united in asking the government to draw up a plan of action that can be implemented quickly to reduce the overall duration of the concession. Furthermore, an overall opposition wishes to draw up time-limits for the handling of energy installations by NVE and OED. In this context, it is important that deadlines also have implications for other actors who have the capacity to record in these proceedings. We have gradually drawn up a series of laws and regulations on the treatment of applications for energy installations, the considerations to be taken into account, values to be balanced against each other, and various actors involved in the outcome of the application. This has probably been a major contributor to extending the time required to deal with concession requests. An overall opposition wants to set up an expert committee to develop simpler legislation with less duplication, more efficient processing and better coordination between the different authorities. For Norwegian energy production, Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs, it is unfortunate that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre signal that they will vote against these proposals. Political agreement on energy development is also likely to be a prerequisite for faster procedures. Given all the issues that have revealed an internal disagreement between government parties, it is obvious to suspect that, for example: The State Councils of the Ministry of Oil and Energy have a different approach to some projects than his colleague in the Ministry of Environment, which represents another party. This type of internal drawdown is also a handicap in relation to rapid handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1148	For the Central Party, the use of nature is a core issue. We will facilitate the sustainable harvesting of the natural resources available to Norway. In order to exploit the potential, a well-developed network is a prerequisite, but I will come back to that more in the next case. In its position on this issue, the Committee makes a good account of the potential for renewable power generation, which many of the representatives before me have also been involved. At the same time, we also agree that the line for the treatment of concession cases at NVE is too long. There I would like to stress that the government has implemented a number of measures to improve the efficiency of both network and production concession treatment. Several measures will be taken. It is worth stressing that increased requirements for evidence of knowledge base and assessment of overall load have also increased. The soil shall be managed sustainably and in the long term – including in terms of renewable energy deployment. Therefore, natural basis and environment must be taken into account. The measures taken to improve the effectiveness of the concession treatment period are well-managed. The number of annual work in NVEs has, as several have said, doubled considerably since 2005. The capacity of the OED is also strengthened. The same applies to the necessary coordination between networks and production during the concessional treatment. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State also refers to a number of other measures. Overall, there have been clear results. That doesn't mean the Center Party is satisfied. We will continue to work actively to ensure that good development continues, thus facilitating the achievement of government's ambitions for renewable development by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1163	Let me first thank the Committee for taking up and helping to address an important topic in a constructive way. I think the position that is on the table today, and the reality that many have – across the party lines and regardless of the proposals that the opposition is promoting – is correct and constructive. The El Certificate Agreement with Sweden shows the government’s high targets and high ambitions in the development of renewable energy. The agreement gives clear objectives and increased predictability for both industry and government in the coming years. With the certification system in place, the government has arranged for energy companies to take on board the development of projects that have already been granted a concession. But we also take seriously our responsibility to ensure that a sufficient number of projects are authorised in the coming period, and that the projects that are authorised have a network to connect to. It imposes high demands on the progress of concession treatment and on the website. With regard to the government's actions to increase efficiency and to strengthen and clarify policy choices early in the online concession treatment process, I refer to the big business message on the development of the power grid to be addressed after this case. Much has been done in recent years to improve and streamline progress in the treatment of projects for the development of new renewable production. Among other things, procedural capacity is significantly increased, coordination between networks and production has been strengthened, and priority criteria for wind power have been introduced to ensure that the best projects are dealt with more quickly. The guidelines for wind power and small hydropower plants have been established and the guidance material for action holders has been improved. The need for efficiency must be balanced against the need for soundness. I note that the representatives of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party also agree in their proposals that increased efficiency should not be at the expense of the quality of the proceedings. In recent years, the requirements have increased, inter alia: for investigations, documentation, knowledge base, assessment of overall burden and consultation. This results in a more extensive procedure in a number of areas and does not contribute to reducing the time spent in concession treatment, regardless of internal capacity of energy and water authorities. Our legislation and legislation must take a lot of account, and there are many considerations that need to be balanced in order to identify the projects and the design of those that are the most favourable overall to society. Nevertheless, the effectiveness measures have produced results. NVE and OED have given final concessions over the past five years to twice as much wind power, and to almost 20 pst. more hydropower than in the previous five-year period. Over the last five years, the NVE has completed a total of 13.6 TWh hydropower, wind power and district heating. Some of these cases are now under review in the ministry. Although the number of cases decided annually has increased sharply in recent years, it does not mean that we are satisfied. Progress in concession treatment needs to be further increased in order to reach the ambitions that the government has set itself for renewable development by the end of 2020. This is a challenge to which both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the NVE pay great attention. I am pleased that the representatives share the government's view that progress in the concession treatment process is important. Wide political consensus on renewable efforts is important in order to create predictability. Many measures to improve the efficiency of both network and production concession treatment have already been implemented and several measures will be taken. I do not think, however, that there is an action plan we lack – now we have to do the job. The minority proposes the introduction of time-limits for the treatment and review of energy installations, both at the NVE and the OED, and associated sanctions regimes. The introduction of time-limits for issues with such significant complexity in a number of societal considerations is not appropriate. Such deadlines will prevent an adequate overall assessment of projects in the same area – which is important both for coordination with network development and for identifying the best projects. This could often lead to a refusal of the fasitium rather than a proper procedure, and therefore would not contribute to faster renewable development. Time-consuming investigations into legislative simplification, time-limits and sanctioning regimes will not remove the fact that it will continue to be in the concession treatment we need to balance real conflicts of interest. It's not in my opinion these proposals that are going to solve the challenges we're facing, but it's nine-time and real work within the law we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1189	The background to the proposal is that projects often take a long time to build. It could take years. My question is: can the Government guarantee that all approval applications under the Electricity Certificate Scheme have been completed by 2016-2017, so that the projects can be in production by the end of 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1197	I believe that the question raised by the representative is important and fundamental. There's a lot of responsibility for me, the Department and the NVE in the years that are coming, to get enough issues through the system. It is our responsibility, and of course our goal is to do this within a time frame that allows us to participate in the ECM. It has to be in production by the end of 2020. I cannot promise that everyone who is applying will have completed their applications by 2016 or 2017. However, I can promise that all good projects, all projects that can be seen to be carried out, will, when taking into account the restriction of the Norwegian network, be properly dealt with within that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1204	The Council of State says that the government does not want to join the proposal to give deadlines, even though we think from our side that it may be a driver to ensure a quick procedure. So my question is whether the government believes that the quality increases proportionally over time a user in concession treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1211	No, I don't think so, and sometimes it can even be the opposite, that fast decisions can qualitatively be well at the height of the processes that take time. However, when we don't want to join a regime of deadlines, it's because I'm afraid it can work counterproductively. I share the ambition that I experience is to bring down the processing time and up the capacity. But I'm afraid that in complicated processes where different real and legitimate reasons are to be weighed against each other, and where one also has to assess overall effects, one can quickly get into a forced situation where, in order to reach the deadline, one will have to say no to projects that are good and that would otherwise have to be accepted. So you get the opposite of what you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1218	Thank you to the Council of State for good words. It is important to take into account the fact that the Council of State and the Committee on Energy and the Environment look equally at reality. We have increased the procedural capacity, there has been better coordination, and there have been priorities. Nevertheless, a joint committee says that today's treatment time in the NVE is too long. The council itself said in its speech that he is not satisfied, and that he will pay great attention to the NVE and the OED. My question, then, is: what will that attention mean, so that, as a committee and responsible in this area, when we are not satisfied, we can do so in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1227	The representative knows that my main goal is to do the Stortinget, and the representative, satisfied with the job being done. It's sometimes demanding, but we do what we can. Having said that, I need to say that I believe the processing time in the NVE today is too long. I believe that our own capacity in the Ministry of Oil and Energy is undergoing constant improvement. That's important, that's right, and that's something I, and the government, is going to have a constant focus on the future: how can we increase capacity, how can we work smarter, how can we get things faster through the system? Some of the answer lies in several case handlers and increased resources, which is a change in the concession system, which we invite Stortinget to say something about in the next case – the network processing case – which lies in regional plans related to wind power, etc. I don't think there's a single answer to what we have to do. That is the sum of all the measures and strategies we are taking to achieve the goal, which will deliver a good outcome in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1234	As I said in my post, the time is overdue with regard to taking real grip that actually works. One thing is statistics, another is the future, and, as I also said in my post, there are 3 150 days left before one has to press the start button to get under the electricity certificate market scheme. It takes up to five years today to get a concession treated. In other words, the response must be in 2016-2017 in order for one to actually benefit from the electricity certificate scheme. If I submitted an application for a concession to the Council of State today, could he guarantee that my application would be dealt with in such a way that I could possibly use the electricity certificate market and press the start button by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1241	That would be my goal and my ambition – with some reservations. Firstly, I would then recommend the representative Meling to submit a concession request in an unprotected watercourse. It significantly increases the likelihood of prompt treatment. I also think it is important to have a good project that does not unduly challenge other considerations that this hall places on in other contexts. I think it is important that it is located in a part of the country where there is online access, and where we succeed in getting online capacity in good time before 2020. If those things are in place, it is my goal, my ambition and my clear assumption that the representative Meling will get answers in good time to expand by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1248	With all due respect for the Council of State's knowledge, I have to point out that if I had applied for a protected watercourse, my application would be processed very quickly, because I would then have been refused. Another question is – as I was also involved in my post – the political disagreement that we can understand is between the different parties that run different departments. It is clear that if we are to be given a faster concessional treatment, it is essential that the government can be clear and coherent about the priority of development. So my question to the Council of State is whether, after there has now been a change of state council in the Ministry of the Environment, he feels that there is a better climate for better coordination, so that we can hope for faster processing and faster clarifications of these concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1255	I am aware that the protected watercourses are protected watercourses, but the Stortinget has also decided to allow extensions of up to 1 MW in sheltered watercourses, if it does not go at the expense of the values you want to protect. So the question of cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment. I have always experienced that as good and constructive. I think it is important to stress that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy are set to take care of different interests, different sectors, and that within all governments – I think – it will be that sometimes you target matters with a different starting point. There's no drama in it; that's how our system is designed. I have always felt that the cooperation between OED and MD is good and constructive. I now feel that there is a broad understanding in the government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection that we need a fast and good concession process to achieve our common renewable energy production goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1262	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1278	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1287	We are now dealing with the big message We are building Norway – on the development of the power grid, and I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation on it. So I would like to say that I think it is in itself good that we have a message. After many years of low investment, where we have picked up efficiency gains and focused on using the network more effectively, we are now facing a period of major investment in our central network. I believe that it is good that the strategies put forward by Statnett are anchored in the Stortinget and that we have a politicisation of the network policy, because this is the development of social critical infrastructure. There are many dilemmas and balances that need to be made, and it should be the subject of political debate and treatment. This is the first time the Stortinget gets an online message, and I want to take the opportunity to commend the government for that. There are many reasons why we are now in a situation where we need to upgrade and develop the network. I'm not going to go into it in detail, just briefly mention that we have too little security of supply in some parts of the country, we are going to build a lot more renewable power generation, we have got commitment through the Energy Act, we have growth in consumption in parts of the industry, especially in the petroleum sector, we have areas of population growth, and in addition, we have a political desire to balance regional power prices, and it requires flow in the system. This message establishes some criteria for what should trigger network deployment. Such criteria have never been dealt with politically before, and even though the Storting does not go directly and prioritize line-traces, it gives some signals to the web builder – i.e. Statnett – about what is most important. Supply security, the N-1 criterion, has a clear first priority, it is clearly established. This means that investments in the central network shall be planned in such a way that errors in one component shall not interrupt the consumer. The importance of industrial activities is highlighted. Whether it is profitable power generation or business start-ups that require electricity consumption, priority shall be given to grid deployment in such a way that these projects can have network access and can be realised. Moreover, as I have already mentioned, there is a desire to remove bottlenecks that contribute to long-term and large price differences between regions in Norway. That's something we don't want. These are the priorities to which the Committee as a whole subscribes, and I am pleased about that. I would also like to mention that the message contains a clarification of the wiring policy. It is essentially a continuation of existing cable policies, which means that there are mainly low voltage cables, but that the use is increasingly restrictive as the voltage level rises. At the central network level, this means that the main purpose is to build air voltages. I think it is good that that clarification comes, and is confirmed in the message. I don't have time to go further into it. We have had many debates on cabling policy in the Chamber in the past, and we may perhaps come back to it later in the debate. So this is essentially a central network message. It is the major electricity supply projects which have national interest and which should be anchored at national level. I think that's natural. But at the same time, I would say – and it is also pointed out by the Committee in the setting – that the state of the underlying network is absolutely crucial for us to succeed in having a robust and secure power supply. It's very important that we have a regulation of underlying networks that stimulates enough investment. The review tone in the online message is that the impact of investing too little and too late is larger than overinvesting, and the reasoning is valid for the entire network structure. I am also pleased that the notice states that non-residents that are socio-economically profitable should be built. A single committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, determines the need for multiple cables in order to be able to handle increased power. Finally, I would like to mention the changes in the concession system proposed in the notice, because this has been a little discussion around them – and whether they are actually going to be time-saving. Here, too, I have no opportunity to go into detail, except to state that it implies a prior clarification of the need for networks and a transfer of decision-making powers to the King in the Council of States. The Committee unanimously supports the amendments made. At the same time, the Committee agrees that, in order to achieve the objective of saving time, early political involvement must limit subsequent rounds of political treatment. I hope we have a good debate, but first of all I think it is good that we have a debate and a national political anchoring of the policy of the major network deployments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1310	It should be a matter of course of course that a prosperous, rich country like Norway has a modern, time-consuming grid. But it hasn't been like that, and so it's high time you put an effort into this field now. It is very much appreciated by the Progress Party. It's high time, but I find that it's been a long time for this government – and it might be a little complicated in the attitude of this government to just infrastructure. Infrastructure, in this case, critically important infrastructure, which binds Norway, is of fundamental importance. But better late than never. We're not going to dwell too much on the past. Now it's a very clear, united committee that meets a much greater degree of development in this field. The power grid, the grid, has been much discussed in the media from time to time. We know the term "monsters". I allow myself to try to redefine that term and call it prosperity masters. If there is something that characterizes a modern country that has a well-developed infrastructure, which has good conditions for its inhabitants, it is among other things. that you have to build masts, you have to bring the electricity to the whole country. Then I think it's okay not only to focus on the negative, but actually also to see the positive – that yes, we have to build masters, that's a good thing. We are not going to have it the way we have actually experienced it in the last few winters, that delivery uncertainty has made it necessary to disconnect some parts from the web – among other things. in my own home town, Harstad – that we in Finnmark experienced that Statoil was almost turning around in terms of its gas power plant on Melkøya because not enough electricity had been brought to Finnmark. This is an unacceptable situation as a rich country in which Norway cannot be known. That's why it's good to take care of. At one point, however, the Progress Party separates teams from the other parties. It's about power exchange with the rest of the world. The Progress Party will take on a reservation. We are clear and clear that the rich natural resources we have, not least in terms of hydropower, in this country, will benefit the population at a reasonable price. Then we don't have to put ourselves in the situation that we're expanding so much transmission capacity to the continent that we're thus pushing prices up. The formation of prices leads – because we have a larger market than the one we can deliver – to prices rising for ordinary Norwegian citizens and businesses. It is certainly not a desirable development from the point of view of the Progress Party. With regard to the visions of Norway as a green battery in Europe – I will take a little advance, a little with reference to the previous matter we discussed, that all the energy will be expanded – I will take the reservation that I will see that we have put in place a lot more energy production before we continue to wire to the rest of the world. Within that time we think it would be natural to take a break. The Council of State was very clear and clear before he became the Council of State. My challenge to State Council Ola Borten Moe is: What happened in the meantime? Is it no longer as clear that there are indeed Norwegian interests to be taken first and foremost, rather than European interests? I also want the same clarity from the Council of State in terms of development. Before the Council of State became the Council of State, he was very ready in the Hardanger case. Now we have a similar conflict situation in North Norway. I am calling for a clear state council there, too, when it comes to expanding 420 kV power lines from Ofoten to Hammerfest – which is a very important matter for North Norway, but where the reindeer interests stand in the way. 33 reprocessing districts shall cross these lines and there is a risk of significant delay. I wish the government and the Council of State were equally clear on this matter. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1329	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1332	The development of the electricity transmission system is the most important factor in making use of the potential of a strongly improved power balance. A satisfactory developed network is also a means of triggering the potential for new power generation. A well-developed electricity network, both domestic and foreign, and to the rest of Europe, is an important measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to facilitate economic development throughout the country. Right has long requested such a message. When the message has finally arrived, it is a weakness that it does not deal with the regional and local networks, and that it does not address financing and future cost allocation in the network to a small extent. It would also be an advantage if the message had been part of a holistic energy message. Unfortunately, it has taken a disproportionately long time to put in place important network deployment, for example. due to lack of work and weak anchoring in the communities concerned. The policy has to be changed to achieve the ambition of a modern and forward-looking network throughout the country. In order to achieve this, the Storting should be more closely involved in the work on guidelines and principles for the transmission of power lines in Norway. A national plan for power lines should therefore be drawn up, which is updated and promoted for treatment in the Grand Duchy once every majority period. On the right, when strengthening the central network, there should also be a strong focus on aesthetic considerations and consequences for the environment and proximity to the bus. In many places power lines in the air voltage can also cause fear of radiation and reduced quality of life. It is important that these concerns are also emphasised in assessments of different trasé choices and in the choice of cable solution versus air voltage. On the right, a professional selection consisting of others should be created. representatives of cable manufacturers, research environment and Statnett, to review new technological solutions that can be put into use in the future power grid. State networks and other network carriers should be drivers for the development and qualification of new technologies. On the right, the government supports its proposals for concession management changes, even if one is skeptical about this will shorten the overall duration of the operation. The political clarification of fundamental questions about needs and choice of concepts and the early involvement of the relevant interests makes sense and will reduce the level of conflict in development matters. Right-wing believes it is positive that the network companies' drafts related to large network projects are published and subject to an external quality assurance. It is also positive that different conceptual options are presented, so that the governance powers beyond the process have real choices. Right does not have a much more offensive hold in the message when it comes to strengthening exchange capacity towards the United Kingdom and the continent. Today’s lingering cable ambitions are an unnecessary brake on Norwegian value creation, and the Right calls for a greater degree of clarity in what strategic and political assessments should be made to ensure the necessary rate of expansion. Right refers to increasing the focus on renewable energy in Europe offers great potential for Norwegian energy production. Norwegian hydropower will increase value – not only by providing Europe with more clean, renewable energy, but also in terms of regulatory capacity to balance the strong investment in wind power in the rest of Europe. Today, the transfer capacity from Norway to the rest of Europe, and internally in Norway, to bring the power to the point of entry is a significant bottleneck when it comes to exploiting Norway’s advantages before renewable energy production. It is important that Norway has an active role in cooperation with other EU/EEA countries to develop a so-called marine supernet. Right is against the new regional network scheme adopted by the NVE on 7 March 2012. Therefore, the Right will propose: ‘The government is asking the government to keep track of the changes in the regional network system and to present a holistic approach to the issue of future regional and local networks.’ Right means that the new model is unnecessarily expensive in relation to the amount to be distributed. In addition, the regional network operators will be weakened by the loss of customer contact with the users of the regional network, which are both producers, distributors and industrial customers. They may also, in the long term, lack important analytical and decalcification skills. Right should wish that what we're dealing with here today was a holistic energy message, and that this important field could have got a wide deal here in Stortinget. This online message is part of such a message, and the Right is looking forward to further developing new policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1367	The online message is about building Norway. Network construction is not the goal, but the means. The online message helps us build the green business life of the future, the climate solutions of the future and the security of the future. The center party will build the country from below and will leave the earth in at least as good condition for our descendants as it was when we took over it. For us, local democracy and the individual's right to live anywhere in the country are crucial. The online message contributes to this. A well-developed network is a prerequisite for using the whole country on the road towards a green future. At the outset, it must be said that there is a great lag in today's network. Most were built until the 1980s. That was 30 years ago. That's why many parties in this room are responsible for the fact that the chase is now so big. I am therefore pleased that the government has now submitted an ambitious message. First of all, clean, zero-emission power is a vital ingredient in building future Norway. Nature has given us an amazing starting point. The renewable energy needs to be harvested and moved where it is needed – to enterprises, to households, to electrify the cap and to fill the tank on the electric cars. This is how the grid builds Norway. Green forces contribute to a competitive industry meeting the climate requirements of the future. Power generation provides services to landowners and tax revenues to municipalities. This provides dear income that municipalities can use to build good welfare services for their inhabitants. A well-developed network provides consumers with predictability of electricity prices, comparable prices across the country — and counteracts shock prices experienced by Middle Norway in 2010, and fears that the mountainous region will be darkened. In addition, a good network provides security against power interruptions. The current breaks due to ‘Days’ led, inter alia, to: to remove the mobile coverage. For some, ‘Days’ literally spilled milk when the flow to the cooling plants disappeared. The consequences could have been so much worse. Therefore, I am pleased with the focus of the online message on security of supply and that investments in the central network are planned on the basis that errors in one component should not shut down the supply to consumers. Even though the construction of networks has many good sides, we also know that it can be controversial. For the Central Party it is absolutely central that local democracy is maintained in the processes. Those that apply must be heard. The online notification modifies the concession system in a way that better reflects the wishes of local communities and other stakeholders. It should also lead to shorter concession procedures. At the same time, it is important and appropriate to also focus on remedial measures where the flow is flowing in air voltage and to increase the use of cable at a lower voltage level, especially where people live. The electricity grid connects Norway. It is part of future climate solutions. In other words, the online message is a good center party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1388	Extensive measures and investments in the Norwegian mains network are needed. We need to ensure security of supply for electricity, balance price differences between parts of the country and facilitate new power generation. We also need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and facilitate business development across the country. Then we have to have a stronger power grid. The Christian People’s Party does not agree with the general government’s claim in the announcement that we have ‘a well-functioning electricity network in Norway’. Development of the Norwegian electricity grid has been neglected in the last 20 years. This is a cross-political responsibility that the Christian People's Party also takes part in the responsibility for. However, the responsibility is also heavy on the current government, which has largely ignored the need for a more offensive network policy throughout the last growing period. These include: a fact that new and strongly elongated power lines to Bergen and Middle Norway were available for treatment by the authorities throughout the previous large-scale period. The Christian People's Party believes the government is sub-communicating the need for the rapid expansion of the central network, especially in the north. Today's power grid is an effective bottleneck against new power expansions and new power consumption. We have reached the capacity limit in large parts of the mains. It no longer helps to flick old wires and threads. We need new ones. At the same time, we are facing a significant increase in power generation due to green certificates. We can probably also expect an increase in consumption as a result of new activity within, among other things. the petroleum and mineral industries. Statnett has signalled a need for investment in the grid of 40-50 billion. kr for the next 10–15 years. These plans must be followed up and fully supported politically. The Christian People's Party agrees with the government that the negative effects of being late for net investment are high. The government writes in the message that the consequences of investing too little or too late are greater than the consequences of investing too much. I'm going to say that we're already too late with the necessary network expansion in central Norway and in the mountain range. We're also getting late in North Norway. The consequence we have seen two consecutive winters in Middle Norway and Bergen in 2010 and 2011. The lack of capacity in the mains power grid these two winter trains meant that we had to establish several new price ranges for electricity. Electricity customers had to bear the cost of lack of investment in the central network by paying more for the flow. The bill was doubled by too many power customers. The consequences of the lack of network deployment in North Norway have also been seen, among others. by the fact that the Goliath and Snow White plants cannot be supplied with current power from the network. The Christian People's Party believes that the Stortinget, as the top elected body, should be more closely involved in the work on guidelines and principles for the transmission of power lines in Norway. It is a cross-thinking that public billion investment is planned without the Storting being involved in the process. Stronger involvement of the Storting could ensure greater predictability, inter alia: in respect of the use of earth and sea cables on controversial routes. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, is therefore promoting proposals for drawing up a national plan for power lines which are updated and promoted for treatment in the Storting once every major period. The Christian People's Party wants to establish several new foreign tables for our Nordic neighbouring country and the continent. Several international connections are necessary to ensure sufficient import capacity in years of low rainfall and severe cold weather, while ensuring export potential in flood-rich periods of high domestic power. Several international connections are also a prerequisite for exploiting the value of Norwegian hydropower regulatory capacity. The Christian People's Party lacks a clear commitment to this in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1405	Building up the power grid is expanding Norway, which reflects the title of the Storing Message. The electricity grid has a key role in the country's electricity supply, the grid is the link between electricity generation and electricity consumption. In a power system with distributed production, like ours, a robust transmission system is even more important. In the next ten years, investments are planned for between 40 and 50 billion. kr in the central network. A good political anchoring of the framework is necessary to get good decisions and progress in the projects. Therefore, the online message is important. Here we present the government's electricity grid deployment policy. Norway today has one of Europe’s most efficient power grids. Capacity is largely fully exploited. We have experienced a significant increase in consumption over the last two decades, without corresponding investments in the network. State networks are now making substantial investments to meet society’s needs. Strengthening of the mains is necessary for several reasons. It improves security of supply and meets expected growth in consumption. It contributes to the creation of value added and provides opportunities for the realisation of more water and wind power plants. It supports climate policy, contributing to less regional imbalances and thus a more equal electricity price and security of supply across the country. The guiding principle is that society's benefits from network deployment are greater than the costs of society. The critical importance of electricity suggests that the impact of building an insufficient network is greater than the impact of overinvesting. I believe that the development of the network as a general rule should be planned on the basis that errors on one component should not normally interrupt consumers – the so-called N minus 1 principle. With the online message, I invite Stortinget to establish this principle. This will mean a stronger anchoring of future development projects, because it is accepted that new lines will have to be built if security of supply is too poor. A well-functioning power grid is crucial for the value creation here in the country. There are many plans for new consumption across the coast, for new industrial activities and for the petroleum industry. I want to make that right. Furthermore, renewable energy will be greatly developed in the years to come, contributing to jobs and value creation. In addition, it builds up under climate policy. I also want to facilitate that. We have to make sure to have a power grid that has enough capacity to transport the energy from the power plants and where it will be consumed. In addition, we need sufficient cross-regional transmission capacity, so that there are no long-term, large differences in electricity prices between the different parts of the country. It is also important to ensure good security of supply everywhere — in all parts of the country. It provides predictability for industrial development and social development. Network investment needs to be made in a timely manner so that price differences do not hinder the development of consumption, which is of overall benefit to society. Network investment is necessary and important. The need for future network investment requires effective concession treatment. The government believes that today’s planning and concession treatment are mainly well suited to achieving the objectives of the network policy. Still, we can get even better. Therefore, we propose changes to increase efficiency, to strengthen early involvement of stakeholders and to clarify policy choices. The main concrete changes are the introduction of external quality assurance and the early policy opinion of the Ministry on needs and choice of concepts. In addition, the decision-making authority shall be transferred to the King in the Council of State. This model of decision-making on the major power lines effectively unites today's knowledge-based and professional concession treatment and the fact that major power lines are decisions of major political importance. With this message, the government has clarified the policy objectives for the deployment of the mains power grid. With clarity about the objectives and instruments, it is now designed to enable us to make the necessary and important investments, ensuring that we also have a secure power supply in the future. We build Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1429	In connection with the extensive debate on Hardanger and the masts to be built there, I felt that the Council of State, which was not then the Council of State, was very clear and clear when it came to society's need for networking. Now we have a situation that is, if not of the same character, so it looks a little bit like: the battle around the web to be built between Ofoten and Hammerfest. It is sad if we are now to be postponed for years because there will be legal proceedings between reindeer and the Norwegian State. Therefore, it is important to get a quick clarification. It is the Nordic population and the Nordic business community that will suffer if these deferrals become widespread. I am calling for the involvement of the Council of State in this matter. Can he give the same clarity in the battle that is now taking place in North Norway, in view of the resolute, clear speech he made in the previous battle?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1439	I thank you for the question. Let me start by saying that in the battle over Hardanger – Sima – Samnanger – at least I lacked an equally clear commitment from the representative that he is now basing on in terms of grid expansion further north. There were not so many who fought with the government to get the important project out in time. When they say, in this message, we invite the Storting to base the so-called N minus 1 principle. Of course, this also applies to North Norway. I am aware that Statnett has great plans to bind the two northern Norwegian states to the central network. What has changed since the last time is that I am also the complaint authority in these cases. It is important to take that role seriously and to ensure that the complaints that have to be filed are properly dealt with and dealt with in accordance with the rules adopted by the Stortinge. I intend to do so within the principles now set out in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1448	In its article, the Council of State referred to hardly — or perhaps not — force exchange with the rest of the world. He belongs to a party that so far has a certain tradition of building walls, like customs walls. But energy policy is something different than agricultural policy. In VG 3 April 2006, the Council of State issued the following opinion on foreign tables: ‘We should not be part of a European power market. We should be self-sufficient in cheap power and leave this as a competitive advantage for our industry." When we compare this statement with the fact that the level of ambition is halved in terms of the exchange of power with the rest of the world, we suspect that the Council of State is making political headway to this reduction in the level of ambition rather than technical reasons. Will the Council of State be an active driver for us to take out the potential we can in terms of power exchange with the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1458	Yes, I have a vague memory of the fact that the Right has confronted me in a previous line change here in Stortinget. What is in any case the case is that this online message primarily has a national focus. It alerts a national power cap to deploy its own power grid, to ensure security of supply, to facilitate the renewable promise and to ensure comparable prices across the country. Then this message also alerts that significant steps must be taken in terms of exchange capacity with the rest of the world. As of now, there is one concrete project under development between Norway and Denmark. It happens now as we talk. I am aware that SydWestlinken is under construction, and there are two concrete cable projects, one between Germany and Norway and one between the United Kingdom and Norway, which is in Statnett's investment plans. We shall decide on those plans when a concession application is normally made. [[President clubs]] They shall be socio-economically viable and include the concept... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1472	The Christian People's Party believes that climate and environmental considerations must weigh heavily on the development of the future electricity grid. The importance of preserving biodiversity and reducing greenhouse gas emissions must also be given weight to the transmission of new transmission lines. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that we need to allow more use of earth or sea cable in the central network than the government provides in today's online message. Soil and sea cables should be assessed by the transmission of power lines in natural areas of particular value, in areas where biodiversity is at risk, and where future climate scenarios indicate an increased risk of wire failure due to storms. My question to the Council of State will then be: How will the Council of State take care of these considerations in relation to natural areas of particular value, with biodiversity and climate scenarios, when the principles of cabling, as set out by the Government in an online notification, are the same principles as the Stortinget adopted in connection with Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1479	The question raised by the representative, Mr Hemdal, is based on the assumption that there are incompatible grounds for meeting, on the one hand, the need to develop a modern central network in the air and, on the other hand, important concerns relating to the landscape, nature and environment. I mean, it's not. I also believe that history has shown in the matters that we have been dealing with recently, both Sima–Zomnanger and Aurskog–Sogndal, that we are able to take care of both. The government's wiring policy is firm. This means that there is essentially air voltage to be used. It is most effective, it is cheapest, and it affects the environment at least in most cases. So there may be isolated cases where there might be talk about the wired network, but that list is pretty high.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1486	Listening to some representatives from the government parties may seem to have a bit of vision in the case of Norwegian electricity exchanges to Europe, i.e. this vision of Norway as Europe’s so-called green battery. Some of us are a little bit more concerned with supplying gas to Europe than with electricity, but now leave it. When you listen to some of the arguments and statements that come up, it almost seems as if it is a goal in itself that the electricity price in Norway should increase. It is quite a natural consequence if the network to Europe is to be developed more quickly than power is to be built in Norway. The question is, does the Council share this view? Does the Council of State consider that there is an objective in itself for Norwegian consumers and Norwegian businesses to pay higher electricity, all the time when there is a scarce resource, or is he of a different opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1493	No, I do not think it is a goal in itself that the Norwegian electricity price should be raised. I believe, on the other hand, that it is an objective in itself to create safe conditions for both producers and consumers in power in Norway, so that we get both power development and increased electricity consumption to facilitate jobs and value creation. So I feel that one of the premises that the representative puts into his problem is that increased transfer capacity to the rest of the world will necessarily lead to a higher power price. It's not like that. We have had exchanges with Sweden since the beginning of the 1960s. I believe that both countries have served in a good way. I believe that we should have a pragmatic approach to exchange capacity with the rest of the world where the bottom-up social economy is, of course, both security of supply and price.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1500	The exchange of power with the rest of the world has proved to be a good store, and the revenues from these interconnections contribute to subsidising the central network in Norway. In view of the investments we face, I assume that the Council of State is also concerned with the cost picture. If we in Norway do not increase our capacity with the rest of the world, my question is to the Council of State: as long as we have a common Nordic market, and if we now get the profits of energy everyone expects to come, it will not be like this that Sweden, for example. Will these lines be built to get out of this surplus market and thus run away with the income that Norway could possibly have had if we had a government and a government council that showed ambitions when it came to increasing the exchange of power with the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1507	As I explained in my previous reply, there is considerable work going on to increase the exchange capacity with the rest of the world. A new cable is now being built for Denmark, it is under investigation a significant upgrade of the exchange capacity with Sweden, and there are separate cable projects for both Germany and the United Kingdom. Overall, this will represent a significant increase in our capacity to exchange with many European markets. It is therefore quite wrong to present this as if the government and the department did not want such a development. I believe that we are working for sensible development and a sensible exchange capacity policy with the other countries in the Nordic countries and in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1516	I have resigned from the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I will take the floor anyway, because I have followed this debate for a long time. I am pleased that the Stortinget today is handling the online communication from the government. As I said earlier in this Chamber, Norwegian industrial construction and Norwegian energy policy go hand in hand. One of Norway's biggest competitive advantages, historically, is the pure power we have, with which we have been able to produce goods. This will be even more so in the future, as we expand new renewable energy and increase transmission capacity both domestically and abroad. We can use this for a lot of great and smart things. We can, for example: use power to electrify currently fossil sectors. The car park may be where we have come the farthest. We sell many electric cars in Norway, many more than we thought a few years ago. It reduces CO2 emissions. That's good. The petroleum sector is another sector, which the Minister for Oil and Energy himself has promised well. It is possible to electrify more of the Norwegian base. That's what the government is adding up to in its climate communication. It requires good security of supply and requires secure access to power. If this has not been ensured before such projects are carried out, it may be wrong. We've discussed such cases many times earlier in this room, like this. The Worm Lange field, which a few warned against the consequences of expanding before having sufficient power supply, and which was not listened to. That is why it is important that we take this seriously. The key to getting to this is infrastructure. That's what we do in the online message. As the Council of State said, the network development plan of Statnett involves investments of between 40 and 50 billion. kr for the next 10 years. It is a huge increase – and something quite different from the investments in the decade we have behind us. What happened after the Energy Act was introduced early in the 1990s was that the money we spent on investments in and operation of the central network became fewer and fewer – until we around the millennium were down to absolute zero. This has led us to have a great lag and a very great need for expansion – which has not taken place and which needs to be implemented. Therefore, it is good that the government in the online message focuses not only on increasing the efficiency of the process, but also on strengthening the early involvement of those affected by the construction of power lines. I think it's a very wise move to introduce the principle that an external actor should, at an early stage, enter and quality ensure the assessment of the need for the route being requested, and alternative solutions for this line, and that this should be sent to the ministry for an opinion. As a result, in the future – even if we are to build large lines and carry out large projects – we are likely to avoid political conflict of the kind we saw in the case of Sima-Zomnanger, where we discussed whether or not we needed the line, while in reality completing the final details of its construction. A good example of the fact that it is possible to make this much more flexible and much better, is the large powerline project that the government subsequently dealt with, namely Ørskog–Sogndal, where both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy were involved in a very good and very tidy process, where solutions were found locally, where there was less political noise – despite the fact that it was a much larger intervention, objectively speaking. It has to do with better and past involvement of all parties. That's really what I wanted to raise. Perhaps one of the most important things we take with us from the processing of the online message is the need for good anchoring and early involvement of those affected, so that building the infrastructure of the future in Norway does not become the story of destroyed biodiversity, strong local political conflicts and conflict between central democracy and local democracy, but on the contrary the story of how we build the country, equip it for the low-carbon society, equip it for new industry and new value creation and a more environmentally friendly policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1538	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1541	A solid and stable power grid is of the utmost importance in today's society. In this way, we've become very vulnerable. The whole community gets completely paralysed if the current falls out. We who have lived for a while and who grew up in Building Norway in the 1950s and 1960s remember completely different relationships. It was then quite common that there was a power failure, and that it could last a long time. The quality of the power supplies was also nothing to shout for. I remember that my mother had to fry bread and cakes at night, when the consumption was so low that this was possible, and so that the companies would not get any trouble. This is something to think about when people shout for more power to their electrical appliances, but don't want to see a single mast or cable in the landscape. The power grid has gradually improved, but at the same time the consumption has also exploded. Power is now being used for many tasks – both private and business – that were unimaginable a few years ago. We must all be satisfied that the government is now taking strong steps to increase capacity and to rebuild parts of the network. When we know that today's network was built in the 1950s and until the 1980s, we understand that there is a need for significant reinvestment. Without a proper power supply, important values throughout society can be at stake. We do little with new renewable energy if it doesn't reach where the values are created and where people live. In North Norway, we have large natural resources, and we have a great potential for renewable power generation. We have great possibilities for small power, we have a lot of wind, we have waves, and we have tides. I am one of those who have faith in a strong increase in petroleum activity in the north, and I expect great activity related to future mining. This will create major ring-fences — provide the basis for many other business activities in the country and for increased housing. For this we need power, and then the power has to be brought forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1554	There is a need to upgrade and strengthen the central network in Norway in order to increase security of supply, exploit the potential for value creation both in renewable energy projects and in the exchange of electricity with Europe. History has shown us that it takes a long time to process concession applications for this type of infrastructure project. Therefore, the right is behind the proposed changes to the concession process. For us, transparency and good dialogue are important both on the need for new infrastructure and on the alternatives that can address this need. We hope that the changes that have been made will lead to both better and faster concession processes. However, there are weaknesses in this mains power supply message about the expansion of the mains power supply. The right-hand side lacks an overall approach to these issues and that the case has been dealt with in an energy message. The central network is important, but we also face high investment needs at a lower network level. These are mainly not mentioned in this online message, nor are the issues of costs, financing and tariffs addressed in the network. We are facing major investments, and the question is whether it is appropriate that the cost allocation between energy producers, industrial customers and consumers should be determined by the same allocation key as in the past. Furthermore, the Right does not allow the Stortinge to be presented with the investment plans in infrastructure, and supports the proposal that such a plan be presented to the Stortinge at least once during the downgrading period – just as the Stortinge has an opinion on other major infrastructure projects, such as in transport or petroleum investment. We want to address the changes that have been notified in terms of regional network tariffs, and would prefer to put this issue in a broader context – either in the form of a comprehensive energy message or at least in a network message that also referred to the regional and local networks. We fear that the regional or local network companies will have a reduced position, not least in relation to their large customers, if the government continues with the notified changes in the regional network tariffs. Finally, I would like to point out again that it is unfortunate that the government and the state council Ola Borten Moe has reduced their ambition in terms of power exchange with the rest of the world. I record that the Labour Party may be about to change its mind on this issue, and will encourage the Council of State to do the same. A well-functioning power exchange with other countries is important not only for security of supply but also for extracting the potential of Norwegian renewable energy production in a European context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1565	Right has long called for an online message that could facilitate a faster deployment of the power grid, while at the same time taking into account the negative impacts of new powerlines on the environment and proximity to the bus. One refers to the major conflicts that have arisen over the construction of new power lines in the central network in recent years, and it is important to learn from the experience gained from the development of both new 420 kV lines in Hardanger and Ørskog-Sogndal. The message points to assessing visual effects and impacts on natural disasters, protected areas, cultural memory, outdoor life and reindeer when building new power lines. There are also major consequences to the proximity of lines to buses, and these aspects must be weighed up against each other in the construction of new lines. The construction of new power lines through protected areas may have major implications for the protection values and the protection basis. In the Ålfoten in Sogn and Fjordane, the landowners were refused to build a few hundred meters by forest road, but Statnett was given a gigantic power gate through the same area. The right-hand aspect of protection must be re-examined if lines are to be built through protected areas and that protection must be lifted if development leads to the collapse of the protection base. If you choose to add new forcelines to the brushet, it is important to help reduce the disadvantages of those who live in these areas. It can be, for example, be to place earth cable on shorter distances or to pull the line further away from the bus. The power grid also creates great unrest and fear of the consequences of electromagnetic radiation. It is important to take measures to reduce the risk of electromagnetic radiation by the construction of new lines and the laying of earth cables. This is particularly true when attending schools and kindergartens and areas where children and young people live. In Eikefjord in the municipality of Flora, the new 420 kV line between Ørskog and Sogndal was moved closer to the bus stop and the school at the complaint handling. The inhabitants and the municipality strongly protested about this and asked that new measurements be made of the radiation hazard. They were not allowed to do so. It creates fear, insecurity and frustration, and it should not be. Right-wing means that electromagnetic radiation measurements must be taken from the normal load and maximum load of the line or earth cable, in addition to today's average measurements, in order to provide security for the inhabitants who get these installations into their vicinity. In recent years, we have seen major protests against the deployment of the power grid in many places. This is because there has not been sufficient trust between public authorities and those who attach these lines. It is important to work actively to create trust, and then the new measures when it comes to concession management are a good escape for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1586	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1603	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1612	The size shall now examine a proposal for a representative for the establishment of coal-fired power stations with full-scale capture and storage of CO2 on Svalbard. We are all familiar with the major challenges associated with greenhouse gas emissions and with the environmental threats that this entails. For this reason, the government also has as its main objective the development of future-oriented and efficient technologies for CO2 management, and I am pleased that an overall committee supports this main objective. At Svalbard, considerable efforts have been made to see how any new coal-fired power plant in Longyearbyen can also be used as a demonstration project for the capture and storage of CO2. This is something an overall committee looks at with great interest. There is little doubt that coal in the foreseeable future is the only realistic source of energy for the production of power and heat on Svalbard. Today's coal-fired power plant in Longyearbyen is now 30 years old and undoubtedly needs an upgrade to ensure future heat and power generation. We are also aware that this power plant has been instructed by the Climate and Pollution Directorate to build a new sewage treatment plant. To this end, a Joint Committee takes an interest in the proposal to combine this upgrade with the establishment of a demo project for the capture and storage of CO2. The Committee has also noted that such a demonstration project has received local support from Svalbard by UNIS, the City of Longyearbyen and the Local Government, and that the project is also supported by SINTEF, Bellona and Zero mfl. Due to the special nature of Svalbard in terms of environmental vulnerability, this research is of particular importance. This is why there are several questions that need to be addressed in more detail about this project. This concerns both energy needs, technology and climate potential. By letter to the Committee of 6 March this year, the Council of State has given a good account of this. In this context, the Council of State considers that the application for a pilot study should be considered through the CLIMIT programme. It is also desirable to await Gassnova’s investigation into the scope for the realisation of full scale CO2 management projects before taking a final decision on individual projects of this nature. Long-term energy supply planning is very important in this context. Therefore, it is now important and necessary to launch a comprehensive investigation covering both energy supply and clean-up requirements for the Svalbard community. I believe that this is also important in order to be able to allocate funds from the so-called CLIMIT programme. I have great faith in this measure, but here it is important to make the measures in the right order. With regard to the other comments and suggestions from the minority, I expect this to be justified by the parties behind this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1644	I am pleased that the rapporteur from the Labour Party agrees with the Progress Party in our remark that coal will in the foreseeable future be the only realistic source of energy on Svalbard, even if they have not supported us in the Committee on this point. In reality, Norway has two coal-fired power stations, one in Longyearbyen and the other in Barentsburg. The coal-fired power plant in Longyearbyen is the only coal-fired power plant in Norwegian soil for which we have the operational responsibility, and there is currently too little cleaning there. It's going to have to go into place. The Progress Party is also in favour of socially significant projects on Svalbard, which confirms and reinforces Norwegian presence now and later. The world is changing rapidly and in modern history has always been so, and will most likely continue to be so. Svalbard, as an important part of the North, will soon become a much more strategic area than it is, after all, today. The authorities have imposed on the coal-fired power plant cleaning requirements for soot, sulphur and NOx, and 73 million have been granted. kr for this work in the State budget of the year. This money is likely to be wasted if you do not already see that cleaning, including cleaning of CO2, in a new power plant also needs to come later. That is a good argument in itself, and it stands on its own feet if alone you defend the rapid start of CO2 cleaning in Longyearbyen, based on the learning and innovation that this project can provide. We have a unique opportunity to follow the entire value chain of the University Centre of Svalbard and the world's first field-based education across the CCS value chain. The economic and environmental gain that lies ahead of us if we offensively take this role is enormous in a global context. We will be able to sell technology, equipment and skills for construction, operation and maintenance to countries that require themselves to clean their coal-fired power stations, or to companies that want to do the same. Internationally, Norwegian personnel and Norwegian technology and knowledge will be able to take this leading role. It will be a contribution far greater within CO2 emissions cuts than the requirements we set ourselves for CO2 cuts in Norway. The solution to pollution problems is to think of local solutions that also work elsewhere where pollution exists, and it is global. The representative proposal also follows the policies of the Progress Party. When we see the possibility of achieving a greater share of the international CO2 obligations for a fraction of the costs, it is important to seize that opportunity. In addition, the possibility for Norwegian industry to make money on technology as a new industry will be a very positive consequence. Expecting Gassnova's investigation is not a good enough argument to say no to a new coal power plant on Svalbard. This is a matter of urgency, insofar as one wants to take a leading position in terms of skills development and develop the technology of a product that Norwegian companies can benefit from when selling abroad. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which are promoted in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1683	The representative of Tor Sigbjørn Utsognogn has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1686	Climate challenges can only be addressed through technological quantum leaps. Norway has technology, competence and capital to be part of the solution, and as a large oil and gas producer, we also have a responsibility to contribute where we can. Fossil energy will be an important part of the energy mix for decades to come. It is therefore essential that we succeed in developing a cost-effective technology for the capture and storage of CO2. In this work, the Technology Centre in Mongstad will play an important role. At the same time, it is essential that we focus widely on projects that can provide a lot of learning for the money, and that make it possible to research at all stages of the process. It is not least important that Norway contributes more opportunities than only the TCM that research and technology environments can use as a starting point for learning and further development of different technological solutions. The coal-fired power plant at Svalbard is a very suitable place to establish a pilot and demonstration plant for the capture, transport and storage of CO2. At Svalbard, researchers can follow the carbon from the mine through combustion in the power plant and cleaning of the flue gas via a few kilometres of pipeline and down into the reservoir. There are not many other places in the world where conditions are so well suited for a demonstration project. The geology on Svalbard is the same as on a Norwegian base, just that what is under water in the North Sea, we find over water on Svalbard. The cost of drilling injection wells on land at Svalbard is about 1-5 pst. by an offshore well. The University Centre of Svalbard has already identified an appropriate reservoir and drilled several wells. The storage project, further developed under the name Longyearbyen CO2 lab, is linked to 15 industrial and research partners. On the educational side, the University Centre at Svalbard may be the first university in the world to offer field-based education throughout the CCS value chain. The coal power plant is 30 years old and mature for replacement or upgrade. Today the coal-fired power plant does not purify either soot, sulphur or NOx. As a result, the current situation in Norway likes to produce as a pristine arctic nature cannot continue, regardless of whether or not a CO2 capture and storage facility is established. The Climate and Pollution Directorate has instructed the coal power plant to clean for soot, sulphur and NOx, and 73 million have been allocated. kr to this in the state budget for the current year. At the same time, there is a lack of a comprehensive energy supply plan in Longyearbyen. The authorities have not concluded either as regards the choice of future energy carriers, the strategy for future energy supply or the overall requirements for purification. That means you're at risk of spending 73 million. kr on the cleaning of a 30-year-old power plant without considering the future and alternative possibilities of the power plant. It is therefore positive that an overall committee – here I must be allowed to correct the previous speaker – states that coal is the only realistic source of energy for the production of power and heat on Svalbard. The question of whether to build a new coal-fired power plant with both soot, sulphur, NOx and CO2 cleaning, or whether to patch the old power plant under the requirements of Clif. In practice, if the latter is done, it has been excluded from building a demonstration project for CCS later, because the old power plant does not produce enough energy to meet the needs of the capture plant. Therefore, the right considers that a new coal-fired power plant should be built, which meets the requirements for emissions of soot, sulphur, NOx and CO2 from day one. It is essential that such a project be investigated by CLIMIT and Gassnova as quickly as possible, so that the future of the coal-fired power plant can be determined before the corrections under the requirements of Clif are implemented. That means it's urgent. It would be very bad if this unique chance were to run away from us because one floor doesn't control what the other one does. Therefore, a comprehensive assessment of Svalbard conditions is essential. I'm glad that an overall committee is so positive about this project. Then it just remains to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1731	The question of setting up coal-fired power stations with full-scale CO2 capture installations on Svalbard covers a number of major issues. One of them is the technology development and climate potential. Another is future energy supply in Longyearbyen. The basic idea of the centre party is that the earth should be returned to our descendants in at least as good a condition as it was when we took it ourselves. Therefore, an ambitious climate policy is absolutely central to us. But then we must also take into account that Svalbard is particularly vulnerable. Measurements show that the temperature and the rate of precipitation are increasing at Svalbard, and that the temperature here is rising faster than in the rest of Norway. The expansion of sea ice and fjord ice around Svalbard is changing. Permafrost tins. It creates further challenges for the climate and for future infrastructure at Svalbard. Not least, the meltdown on Svalbard will affect the climate both globally and regionally. In other words, efforts to slow down greenhouse gas emissions may be particularly important for Svalbard. The Svalbard environment is vulnerable to both climate change and other emissions. However, in Norway, we have the means, competences and opportunities to develop forward-looking and efficient technologies for precisely CO2 management. Svalbard can therefore be an interesting demonstration project for both capture and storage of CO2. Svalbard has been referred to as an Eldorado for CO2 researchers. Test drilling for CO2 storage research has produced good results. Svalbard is probably the only site in Norway where structures are suitable for land-based CO2 storage. At the same time, Svalbard does not have the same challenges as many places on the continent. The population of Svalbard is largely positive to the CO2 storage on Svalbard and ends up with the vision that CO2 from the coal will be pumped down again. Much facilitates the capture and storage of CO2 on Svalbard. However, the decision on the establishment of a coal-fired power plant with full-scale capture and storage needs to be taken in the light of a number of assessments, including the future energy supply to Svalbard. Therefore, as the Council of State, I believe that the decision on coal-fired power stations with CO2 capture and storage on Svalbard must be taken within the apparatus established. The application for a pilot project should be considered through the CLIMIT programme and, furthermore, Gassnova should be able to examine the scope for full scale CO2 management projects before considering individual projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1776	The biggest challenge of our time is climate change. We have increased greenhouse gas emissions. To do this, we need measures to reverse this trend. For this we need technological development, we need change of mind, and we need political courage. Mr. Bendiks H. Arnesen made a good contribution to talking about future-oriented and efficient technologies for CO2 management. This is important in a future climate society. On Svalbard, what we have heard earlier in the debate is coal, which in the foreseeable future is the source of energy. For a long time, Svalbard has been working on the challenges we face in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. It's been working across the sector, and you've worked hard. The Christian People's Party supports the Right's proposal to set up coal-fired power stations with full-scale capture and storage of CO2 on Svalbard. We believe that this is an important measure – an action that we could now go further through the natural processes. For the Christian People's Party, this is also an action that we want to include in the work we are now doing in relation to the climate communication, because this is an important pilot project that we can move on to in relation to that process as well. When I heard the representative Olsen from the Center Party, it was a fantastic description of this project. The population is present, much is right, the word "eldorado" was used. Yes, it may be of interest. At the same time, Mr Olsen's representative concluded by saying that we have to get into the usual processes. Yes, all such projects shall enter into the usual processes. At the same time, however, we will not achieve any changes unless we show political courage in this room – together with technology development and with attitudes. Now it's about showing political courage with regard to a project that's come much further than many of us really understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1791	In addition to combating the world’s poverty problem, greenhouse gas emissions are the main challenge of our time. The government is very concerned about finding good responses to this. As fossil fuels will play a major and important role in future energy supply, it is a key objective of the government to contribute to the development of forward-looking and efficient technologies for CO2 management. I am pleased that there are new initiatives in this area, and in this way it is constructive that the opposition makes proposals. It helps draw attention to this important field of action. That's good, because we're using a lot of resources on CO2 management by the state. Last week we opened the Technology Center in Mongstad. For all those who are concerned with CO2 management, this was a big day. The technology centre is an essential part of our commitment to CO2 management technology. It's a unique facility. I want to draw up two aspects: firstly, with its capacity of 100 000 tonnes of CO2, it is a very demonstration plant. That means that we can test technologies on a relatively large scale. The test thus becomes all the more relevant to the scaling up. Secondly, the plants receive flue gas from both the refinery and the CHP plant at Mongstad. As the flue gases from these two sources have different CO2 content, it provides unique flexibility that is important for testing the technologies. In addition to a technology centre in Mongstad, this government is responsible for a number of other activities in the field, which together constitute an overall commitment to CO2 management. We in the government work through a number of forums to help the development of CO2 management internationally. We have to realize that the ambitions to realise full scale CO2 management projects are challenging. We see this very clearly in the work on the full-scale project at Mongstad. Several references have been made to both the challenges of technological solutions and the connection of a full-scale CO2 capture plant to a large oil refinery in operation. No one has earned that the first full-scale projects have been poorly implemented. It is a prerequisite for the government that the investment decision submitted to the Stortinget by 2016 is well reviewed and quality assured. We need to advance the development of CO2 management technology. More research, more demonstration facilities and not least more large or full-scale facilities are needed. Through the processing of Report. St. 9 for 2010–2011, Full-scale CO2 management, last year, Stortinget joined Gassnova in carrying out an investigation work, just to look at the possibilities of completing a full-scale project in Norway, in addition to Mongstad. Gassnova is well in progress with the investigation work, which is scheduled to be completed in 2014. The first interim report is expected by the end of 2012. The study shall identify, analyse and evaluate different types of point emissions, including emissions from existing and possibly new installations in both power generation and industry. The investigation will thus provide authorities with a better knowledge base for potential CO2 management projects in Norway and will be important in the government’s further efforts to facilitate the capture and storage of CO2. The government has assessed that time is not ripe to make the choice of future energy sources in Longyearbyen now. It has been presented by the Ministry of Justice and Defence at the latest in the last Svalbard budget. It is estimated that the power plant will be able to function satisfactorily for many years to come, and that it is therefore not urgent to decide this issue. In addition, local government in Longyearbyen has produced a report on future power supplies in Longyearbyen. This report provides an important basis for the further work of the Ministry of Justice and Defence on energy supply in Longyearbyen. In my view, we now have a suitable apparatus that provides a good basis for decision-making in order to assess different projects within CO2 management. Before considering individual projects of the nature proposed in the proposal for a representative, we must await Gassnova's investigation. To support or reject a project on Svalbard at this stage would be to anticipate this work. I cannot therefore see that that is the basis for this now, and therefore believe that the proposal must be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1858	It was new to me that it was to be rejected, I thought it would be attached to the protocol. The Council of State says that we should await Gassnova's investigation, which is due to be completed by the end of 2012, but the offer to clean the 30-year-old power plant in Longyearbyen for soot, sulphur and NOx is now due in May. Does the Council not see that it will be too late if we await Gassnova's decision and investigation at the end of 2012 and allow the coal power plant at Svalbard to clean for soot, sulphur and NOx now, and that we are actually closing the door to what could become a completely unique demonstration project for the capture and storage of CO2?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1875	On that I think: regardless of a possible future full-scale CO2 management project at Svalbard, in Longyearbyen, it is important to meet the environmental challenges to be addressed there, now. It is in every respect, I believe, reasonable and proper to clean the emissions that occur from the power plant in Longyearbyen. I cannot see – and I do not share the analysis related to it – that cleaning of sulphur and NOx emissions from power generation in Longyearbyen is the same as excluding any subsequent scaling up of a sewage treatment plant on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1888	I guess the government can't even believe that if we spend 73 million. kr to clean a 30-year-old coal power plant now, then we can tear the next year to build a full-scale demonstration plant. The Council of State must also see that in reality it is such that if you choose to comply with Clif’s directive to clean for soot, sulphur and NOx, the door will be closed to build a demonstration project in the near future. What's going to happen far ahead is another story, but there's drilled six wells, the researchers are ready, they just need CO2 to fill these wells with. Pushing this out for many, many years doesn't seem like a reasonable procedure. Will the Council of State ensure that Clif is suspended under its orders?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1899	Firstly, I would like to stress that it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that is responsible for the power supply at Svalbard, and it is right to deal with the Ministry of Justice in terms of what is going to happen at Svalbard. As Minister of Oil and Energy, I am not going to take any initiative against either the Ministry of Justice or Clif so that the obligations that have come to purify emissions in Longyearbyen will be postponed or not implemented. I just don't share the analysis that this is a mutually exclusive project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1906	Now it is the oil and energy minister standing here, not the Minister of Justice. That's why I have to ask him about these things. Would the Council agree that it would be impractical to retrofit a 30-year-old sewage treatment plant that does not have sufficient power to operate the sewage treatment plant, as is the situation at the old Svalbard power plant? He sees that it's spending 73 million. Do cleaning for soot, sulphur and NOx in reality prevent the construction of a new coal-fired power plant as a demonstration plant for the capture and storage of CO2?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1919	Any technical challenges related to the possible construction of a full-scale CO2 management system at Svalbard need to be addressed once Gassnova has submitted its report and once we have had time and opportunity to assess it. I believe that both the government and the Stortinget are obliged to address the emissions that are happening here and now, and the pollution problem that already exists on Svalbard, regardless of the progress of a CO2 management plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1930	Governments feel that they are rejecting the question of saying yes to demo plants now and saying yes to taking the initiative to postpone the cleaning requirements of today’s facilities — with reference to the previous speaker. Since the Council of State responds as he does, I would like to ask if he believes that a decision here today on a new, environmentally friendly coal-fired power plant makes it so difficult for Gassnova's investigation work that the decision cannot be incorporated into Gassnova's investigation work, which is to be presented politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1937	Now I became a little questioning about the problem. The government has proposed that the emissions of the existing Svalbard coal power plant be purified and that NOx and other local emissions associated with it be eliminated. We believe that that is what is on the table now, and that is what it is necessary to decide on in this case. As I explained in the reply to the representative Astrup, I believe that it is not mutually related to a possible future full-scale CO2 management project in Longyearbyen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1952	Governments are very concerned about the cleaning of soot, sulphur and NOx immediately. I understand that because it's been unclean for 30 years. The question is whether it would be appropriate to wait a few months for Gassnova to have completed its investigation, so that an overall approach could be drawn to what will be Svalbard's future energy and power supply, how to clean it, and to what extent it will open up a full scale demonstration project for the capture, transport and storage of CO2. Why this hastened after 30 years, when we can wait a few months and see this in context?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1966	Let me first just make one comment: One week after the world's largest demonstration facility for the capture and storage of CO2 was completed in the West, in Mongstad, there is probably reason to reflect on the great steps we have taken forward as a nation related to this common goal, also in the Great Britain. So even if Gassnova were to conclude that this is a good project, and even though we would politically conclude that it is a good project that we want to implement, with the experience we have from Mongstad, it will take some time before such a project is realized. I believe in all circumstances that it is important to stop the pollution that is occurring on Svalbard and in Longyearbyen now. I can't understand why you're trying to create a contrast between what can be a good full-scale CO2 management project on Svalbard, and a necessary clean-up of local pollution in Longyearbyen right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1979	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1984	I noticed that the representative from the Progress Party said it was good that I thought coal was the only realistic source of energy for the production of power and heat on Svalbard in the foreseeable future, although we should have disagreed with the remark. I understand that it is difficult to enter as an alternate in a matter that is under work and had to enter into the debate. So I'm going to be very careful just to stress what the representative Astrup said, that there was an overall committee that was behind that remark. I do not see the great contradictions in Stortinget in this matter. The only thing that separates here is that the opposition will start the project here and now. I think both the project and we here in Stortinget will be dealing with things in the right order. I have great faith in this project, and I have faith in the realization of this project. I have no doubt that the department and trade unions will cooperate well with the Svalbard environment to find a solution that is worthwhile for all parties – not least for the Svalbard environment. We know that today's power plant in Longyearbyen is over 30 years, as it's been said here, and it also makes it important to keep this work going so that you can get on with it. I agree with the Council of State that the opposition proposal is constructive, and I am sure that there will be solutions with which everyone is satisfied. Finally, let me just confirm what the representative Astrup said in his statement, that the matter should be annexed to the protocol, which in practice means that this is a matter for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e1998	I also record that the proposal has received a positive comment from a unanimous committee, so I was somewhat surprised that the Council of State might appear a little negative. But it is good that we were also told that the proposal should not be rejected, on the contrary, it should be annexed to the Minutes. The unanimity of the Committee on the proposal as such seems to me to be positive. The climate challenge is the greatest challenge of our time, and solving it with technological innovations is important. I was also present at the opening of the Technology Center in Mongstad and am glad that we have reached the milestone it represents, in terms of developing technology for cleaning. But at the same time, I am pleased that we got Stortinget and the government to open up to assess cleaning in places other than Mongstad – the work that Gassnova is now doing. In the case of Svalbard, we are impatient from the Right to take advantage of the possibility that we see lies there quite clearly. The Longyearbyen has to do something with its future energy supply. Coal is natural, which the Committee has unanimously confirmed, as a future source of energy. Svalbard also has the possibility of landfilling on land. These include: The representative of Astrup was inside, the geological formations are the same on land on Svalbard as the ones we have on the base. So this proposal is not just about cleaning, but it is also about storage. It's clear that the learning effect we can get from seeing how CO2 behaves in the reservoirs, we can get a much more reasonable amount of money than what we can get through similar surveys in the North Sea and on our base. At Svalbard, we have an opportunity to follow the entire value chain, from the coal to the coal to its use and to its landfill. We have a community that is positive about this kind of establishment, and we also have an environment through the Longyearbyen CO2 lab and their industrial partners, who have really addressed this issue. They are actively working on it, and they could be an important contributor to the project as such and to build on the knowledge that the project could provide us with. So even if we don't get a majority for this proposal today, I hope that the positive signals given by a unanimous committee on this project show that we can realize it if not for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2017	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 6 and 7 are dealt with as a whole – and it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2044	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be allocated by up to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party and 5 minutes to the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes to give rise to a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2053	So we're dealing with two things now. One is consent to incorporate the revised allowance directive into Norwegian law, and then a separate case on the amendments to the climate allowance law that are necessary to implement the directive. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation on these two issues, and for its flexibility in ensuring that matters are dealt with in a timely but nevertheless sound manner. It's been important. I would also like to point out, as the rapporteur, that the bill on changes in the climate allowance law has been sent to Stortinget before the directive is formally incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Time has been provided to ensure that Norwegian businesses are integrated into the new quota system at the same time as in EU countries. Here it is important to say that the proposal for implementing rules suggests that we should have a harmonised solution, where the EFTA countries are fully integrated into the quota system in the same way as the EU Member States and are subject to the same allocation rules. We believe that this is an important fundamental principle to ensure that Norwegian companies have the same competitive conditions as their European competitors. The revised ETS Directive is a step forward in the continuous job of getting both a tighter allowance system and a wider allowances system. It involves a gradual reduction of free allowances in the system — it is good — and it integrates more sectors than before. For Norway, this means that the proportion of Norwegian emissions covered by the allowance system is increased from approximately. 40 pst. for about 50 pst. Perhaps the most important conversion is a much stronger harmonisation of the way in which allowances are allocated. To date, a quantity of allowances has been allocated to countries and national plans for the allocation of allowances between different sectors and the proportion of those to be free of charge, of course within some framework. These plans have had to be approved by the Commission, but nevertheless there has been a very large political room for action, for example. to give priority to some sectors in front of others. It's going to be completely different now. With the new ETS Directive, all allowances will be allocated on the basis of the same calculation methodology based on benchmarking, completely independent of the country in which the holdings or establishments are located. It may be a little special as a politician to think that it is good that politicians lose power, but precisely in this case, when it comes to further developing a market-based mechanism, I mean it. It provides a more coherent system, providing a level playing field for businesses completely independent of the country in which they are located, and less room for lobbying and penetration of special interests. In addition, it is a system that rewards the technology-leading companies by ensuring that they will always come out well compared to benchmarks in their industry. For Norwegian manufacturing companies, which are largely in the technology front, this is good news. I just want to mention briefly that the companies are divided into three different categories, which determine how many allowances they can be allocated free of charge. The enterprises deemed to be exposed to carbon leakage will be allocated 100 pst. free allowances of the level of historical production. We basically think that's good. However, it can be said to be something special that the petroleum industry has been in that category, and that is what the EU system has decided. For this reason, the Committee, through its comments, has chosen to stress the nature of the Ministry of the Environment itself wrote in a press release after this decision became known. It is said that the government assumes that ‘the petroleum activity will not receive financial relief from the quotas and will come back with proposals to ensure this’. Everyone, with the exception of the Progress Party, is in favour of such a proposal. I would also like to briefly mention the Commission's work on developing a regulatory framework to compensate for carbon leakage for the indirect cost of CO2 generated by increased power prices. Yesterday, the Commission announced that the list of sectors that could be covered is clear and that legislation should be in place within two weeks. At least we see from the Labour Party that this is an important theme for the powerful industry, and we closely follow up on what is happening, to make sure that Norwegian industry has the same framework conditions as the industry in Europe. Then I choose to take a moment off the case rapporteur's hat to comment on the parts of the setting in which the committee shares. There is an overall committee that supports the inclusion of the Directive into Norwegian law, but the Progress Party has chosen to promote an additional proposal requiring Norway not to implement its legislative changes before a minimum of 85 pst. by EU countries, the Directive has been implemented in their national laws and, in addition, demonstrates a practice that is in line with this. First of all, the thought that is revealed here is fundamentally unsolidarian. This would have led to absolutely nothing happening if the other countries followed the example of the Progress Party. But first of all, it's very difficult for me to understand what this really means, and what the purpose of the Progress Party is to promote it. The key point of the new ETS Directive is that the allowances are allocated from the Commission to the activities on the basis of award criteria that are the same for all countries. It is absolutely impossible for some national states to show a different practice. One can suspect the Progress Party for not having fully understood what this is all about. But what is more serious than a slightly strangely formulated proposal is the tone of the Progress Party in their particular comments, which fortunately they are all alone. The party's resistance to the Kyoto agreement is repeated, which is an interesting clarification, as we have seen trends in discussions in the Progress Party on how to deal with our commitments under that agreement. The party is also outside of any comment on the importance of EU leadership responsibility for developing the type of mechanisms needed by the world, if there is to be any realism in putting in place a global regime. The Progress Party also stands outside the references to the Copenhagen Agreement and the emissions obligations notified by Norway, despite the fact that the agreement reached in Copenhagen covers almost all countries and not least all the major emission nations. Of course, it is a huge weakness in the agreement that it is not legally binding, but I assume that all parties on the Stortinget take seriously the emission obligations that Norway has notified under that agreement. It is traditionally the main anchor of the Progress Party against the Kyoto agreement that it is not comprehensive enough. There is a fascinating argument from a batch that will now have a programme process to determine whether or not anthropogenic climate change exists. In the light of the reports we have seen recently on the idea of building a new green bourgeois government, for example, it is tempting to ask the other bourgeois parties for a guarantee that the kind of climate attack that the Progress Party here reveals is not going to take effect. I'm going to leave it now, but nevertheless the idea is the idea of a more pervasive offensive climate policy in a government coalition where the Progress Party is a dominant player, something special. Finally, I want to go back to the ETS Directive and the amendments to the ETS Act. I think it is good that the Stortinget today makes a decision to implement the ETS Directive in Norwegian legislation, and that we are making the legislative adaptations that are to be made. It makes the European ETS more comprehensive and further reduces European emissions. That's basically good. In addition, Norway, through its agreement, contributes to the further development of a mechanism with global transfer value. We should not underestimate that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2094	Finally, the temperature – quite rightly in this room – was raised somewhat, and it may be okay with a bit of proper debate sometimes. It's rare that I've experienced criticism, on behalf of the Progress Party, because of the tone of the comments, but I'm experiencing that today, and it's an interesting and new turn. To make it quite clear, the Progress Party supports the directive. We also support the amendment of the law resulting from the directive, but we take a little reservation. We take a small reservation in a situation in which Europe is in a difficult economic situation – there is no doubt about it in this Chamber – where we can question the willingness of individual Member States to introduce some of the provisions that are coming. We do this only to safeguard Norwegian interests. It follows from our proposal that when the EU complies with the Directive, Norway does too. But we're going to make that a prerequisite. There are only differences in the implementation of the directive and the resulting legislative changes in Norwegian law. We say – and that is what is concrete in our proposal – that it must happen at the time when it reaches at least 85 pst. Member States of the European Union have done the same. It's about equality in competition. This is an important market for Norway. We may in any case have to take over the fact that now, after the climate summit in Durban, it's under 15 pst. of world emissions subject to international reduction agreements. It is a fact that affects Norway, and therefore I believe it is natural to make a reservation. This is a case in point that the European Union, together with Norway and Switzerland in particular, is running, and we have a business that is heavily involved in competition in international markets. But the problem is – even if you say you have to give 100 pst. free allowances for those industries that are considered to be exposed to carbon leakage, which is good and good – that the benchmarking and the historical data on which it is based pose major challenges for some enterprises, because, at the time when these calculations of the historical level are made, they have a lower output than they had in the past, and what is expected in the coming period. That is why the Progress Party is committed to stress – and we do so in our remarks – the importance of compensating for it. We think that's very important. We cannot put ourselves at risk in the situation that as a result of this, we are endangering Norwegian industry, Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs. At least that is not a development the Progress Party wants. It is a fact that we are often the best boy or girl in the class, although we are not even a member of the European Union, and then I think it is natural to take such a reservation. I would like more people to follow us in that reservation. I note that the case rapporteur makes a point that the Advance Party takes some reservations regarding the petroleum industry. Yes, we do, because – and a total increase said the same when we treated the petroleum message – it is desirable to increase the extraction rate on Norwegian base – so-called tail production. So it was desirable on the part of Storting, but it's contradictory to make it more expensive to emit CO2 for the same industry, all the time the marginal deposits necessarily emit more CO2. It makes tail production less profitable. At least there is something the Progress Party has chosen to deal with. I find that the rest of the committee does not. So to this so-called program process that it refers to when it comes to whether the Progress Party believes in or not believes in so-called human-made global warming. That's not what the Progress Party has a process on. But we accept, and we say, it's clear that human activity affects the climate, in the same way that it affects many other conditions around us. There are doubts about — and there is still no scientific conclusion — the extent of this in relation to natural variations. That's what we might have doubts about. I would therefore like to address our proposal in case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2123	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2126	The right is behind the expansion and continuation of the European quota market, because it is an effective tool for reducing emissions in what is really our domestic market, namely the Union market. Norway is trading heavily with our European partners. 70 pst. of our imports come from the EU, and 80 pst. of our exports goes to the EU countries. It is important that we have a level playing field, and it is important that we have a system that enables us in our part of the world to contribute to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The quota market, despite low quota prices, has proved to be an effective instrument, and we believe that it will continue to be. In addition, the applicant mentioned that the European allowance market may have a carry-over value for allowance markets in other parts of the world. Hopefully, this is something we can build on when we try to land an international carbon pricing system, CO2, from 2020, as agreed in Durban. Then I will not go into a long debate about what the Progress Party thinks, the Progress Party can speak for itself. But I note that the Progress Party supports the directive. That's right very pleased with. The last thing I want to mention is the rapporteur on CO2 compensation for the industry. We're also very concerned about that. It is important that Norwegian industry has the same conditions as European competitors, and if the price of CO2 in the electricity price can be compensated in the EU, it must also be possible to do so in Norway. So we think it's positive that the government parties are also working to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2146	The centre party shall be the leader in leading Norway from the fossil to the renewable energy society. We have good opportunities to contribute to new measures and technologies that will bring the world closer to a climate solution. If we are to achieve the climate targets, we need to get control of the growth of emissions. The polluter shall continue to pay. It shall be profitable to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The Quota Directive is one of many pieces that will help to achieve this. The centre supports the incorporation of the EU's revised quota directive into Norwegian law, and unlike the Progress Party, we want to do so without any conditions. We support the necessary changes to implement this in the Climate Quota Act. The main objective of the Directive is to make the climate allowances system common to Europe. In other words, rules for the determination of the total quantity of allowances shall be equal. The same applies to the allocation of free allowances to the activities subject to allowances and to the sale of climate allowances by the country. The suspension of amendments to the Climate Allowance Act assumes that negotiations between the EFTA States and the EU Commission lead to the inclusion of the allowance law in the EEA Agreement. Given that, the Directive will lead to a harmonised common European solution. The allocation of allowances will then be based on the same calculation methodology and not on the countries in which the emissions occur. If Norwegian industry is to be competitive in the future too, the transition towards the green economy of the future must speed up. At the same time, we must guard against solutions that lead to carbon leakage – that the industry is flagging out and emissions are shifting to other places on the globe. The climate challenge is global, although emissions occur locally. In the climate communication, the government announces a strong increase in fund resources. The Norwegian power-intensive industry is already the purest in the world, and with a new 25 billion. We will facilitate further energy efficiency and CO2 reduction, so that we are also world leaders in the future. For the same reason, the Commission's ongoing work on drawing up guidelines in State aid legislation is important to us. It allows countries to compensate, in particular, carbon leakage companies for the expected increase in power prices, as a result of increased carbon costs associated with fossil energy production. This is an important theme for the Norwegian power-intensive industry. We have already seen good examples of companies in Norway developing technologies that make them much better equipped for a future with stricter climate requirements. A good example is Yara, which has developed a catalyst technology that reduces the greenhouse gas emissions at the factory by between 70 and 90 pst. The measure led to a sharp reduction in emissions in Norway, and technology can also be exported out of the country and deliver large global emissions reductions. We need more of these good examples. Norway needs more companies to change and become competitive in the renewable future. The Quota Directive is one of many such instruments that we support, and we had also hoped that all parties could fully support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2172	The Christian People's Party supports the government's desire for the widest possible quota system with the most participating sectors and countries. The inclusion of the revised ETS Directive in the EEA Agreement will contribute to this. The extension of the allowance system means that the proportion of Norwegian emissions covered increases from about 40 pst. for about 50 pst. The revised Directive significantly increases the degree of harmonisation between the countries included in the quota system. The national allocation plans we have had up to now are replaced by a system in which all allowances are allocated on the basis of the same benchmarking methodology, irrespective of the country in which the activity is located. It is estimated that Norwegian enterprises will be able to receive free allowances in excess of 150 million in the period 2013-2020. Norwegian emissions are expected to be higher than this and Norway’s participation will therefore reduce the annual emissions within the allowance system. Sectors that are deemed to be exposed to carbon leakage will be allocated free of charge allowances equal to 100 pst. of the level of historical production relative to the benchmark in the industry. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the petroleum activity is located in this category, to which we have been skeptical. At the same time, we have noticed that the government in the climate communication has partially covered this tax relief for the oil industry by increasing the CO2 tax, which we are pleased to see. The Christian People's Party is following the work to enable a country to provide businesses that are particularly exposed to carbon leakage, compensation for the increase in the power prices expected as a result of trading in allowances. This is an important theme for the Norwegian power-intensive industry. The Kyoto Protocol is currently the only legally binding international framework for greenhouse gas cuts. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that this framework continue after the Durban Summit, although the agreement includes an increasingly smaller proportion of global emissions. The continuation of the Kyoto Protocol is not least important for the further progress of the negotiations on a global agreement. The EU has taken important initiatives to develop ETSs that already have global transmission value and that other countries see. The participation of Norway in the European quota market is seen as important and natural by the Christian People's Party. The participation of Norwegian enterprises in the European quota market is an important measure to achieve these objectives. With regard to the debate on which the rapporteur was concerned, and the fear of the reservation of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party, I would say that there are good reasons to point to concerns there, but there is even more cause for concern when looking at the impact of the quota trading system, at as low a price as it is today. When it's so low, we fear for efficiency, and that may require even greater domestic cuts. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that one also sees that there are restrictions in the quota trading system. From this point of view, we are concerned that the price in recent years has been below 70 kroner per tonne, because it does not contribute to the necessary technological development and investment in emission reduction measures. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that Norway must work actively to reduce the number of allowances allocated in relation to what is planned by the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2192	The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be immediately available. The President proposed that the meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18 for the continued examination of cases No. 6 and 7. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker at the evening meeting will be State Council Board Vegar Solhjell. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 15,57. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2214	The decision continues to deal with the case No. 6 and 7 on Agenda No 85.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2217	The revised ETS Directive expands and improves the EU ETS. This Directive shall apply for upcoming periods of eight years, starting in 2013. The Directive is based on the existing quota system but has changed significantly in several areas. Firstly, the system is extended to cover several sectors and more greenhouse gases. Secondly, the level of ambition will be increased by decreasing the overall quota amount. Thirdly, the degree of harmonisation is increasing, including: to ensure a level playing field in Europe. I would like to underline how good this system is for the environment by setting a roof for them to collect emissions from businesses across Europe, and how important it is that Norway participates in it from the start. Norwegian participation in the EU ETS is one of our most important means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The increase in the pan-European quantity of allowances resulting from Norway’s participation in the system is estimated to be 145 million allowances over the period 2013-2020. Norwegian emissions are expected to be higher than that. Norway's participation in the allowance system will mean that the annual emissions within the system will be lower than they would if Norway did not participate. If emissions from Norwegian ETS are expected, Norway will contribute in 2020 to the total annual emissions from Norway and the EU being around 11 million tonnes lower than they would have been if Norway did not participate in this system. At the same time, Norway will work to improve the system. The price of quotas is now at a very low level. The government will therefore work towards tightening up the EU's share of allowances. There are several ways to do this. I note with interest that the issue of tightening is now being discussed quite widely in the EU. For other parts of the allowance system, e.g. the rules for the allocation of free allowances have wanted Norwegian authorities to comply with the EU. Norway and the EU Commission have also requested that the quota allocation process to Norwegian enterprises follow the same timetable as in the EU. It should be a clear objective that the Directive is implemented in Norwegian in sufficient time to allow Norway to enter as an integral part of the pan-European system. I am busy allocating quotas to Norwegian enterprises at the same time as European enterprises, among others. to ensure a level playing field. In order for this to be possible, it will have to be implemented in Norwegian law before it is incorporated into the EEA Agreement. A legislative proposal for the implementation of the revised ETS Directive has already been on public hearing. The Court of First Instance is essentially in favour of the Directive being incorporated into the EEA Agreement without granting any special derogation to Norway, and there are no substantial objections to the proposed legislation. The proposed changes to climate allowances will give a legal anchor for a number of processes that will have to be completed before summer 2012. Thanks to the quick handling of the matter by Storting, it should now be possible for Norway to become part of the system from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2246	I want to draw the attention of the Council of State to an important point, which goes to the businesses that get 100 pst. free allowances, i.e. within industries that are deemed to be exposed to carbon leakage. There are some companies that are getting poorly into benchmarking, simply because the historical level is getting too low compared to the production they have per time. This is important, this can in principle be a problem for several enterprises and Norwegian jobs in their utmost consistency. What will the Council of State do to take care of these activities so that they do not lose out on international competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2255	It is true that there has been an extensive process both in the EU and Norway about how to design the quota system, how to set a benchmark, i.e. the basis for calculating quotas and what companies should include. I think you have to be able to say that almost no matter how you would have done it, it's unlikely that it's hard to find a system that's perfectly fair and reasonable for everyone. At least it's hard to find a system where everyone comes out well. That's why I'm also aware that companies come differently from the method chosen. The first thing to say is that getting free allowances is a contribution into it. The second thing that is worth noting is that in that proposition – one of those that was just handed over here – the government writes that we want to use the so-called carbon price compensation mechanism, which is now working in the EU, and that we want to come back to an envelope, to take the indirect cost that is. However, I would like to stress that industry has been very positive to the EU's quota system, despite the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2260	The President cannot see that more people have asked for the floor for a reply. - That's what I'm saying, sir. Amundsen wants to do, so he gets the second line – be so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2263	Thank you, President! In connection with the treatment of the notification of petroleum, it was a very clear, overall accumulation – including representatives from the Council of State’s own party – that weighted the importance that we can actually achieve a higher extraction rate in existing fields, i.e. tail production, that is, we're getting more of the oil that's there. It's time-critical. In that case, the increase in the CO2 charge on the Norwegian base also means that the marginal projects we are talking about here are less economic. I believe that the notification of petroleum violates the wishes of Storting when the CO2 tax is increased, which will affect these marginal fields, and we can then risk that the oil will not be taken up because of the fact that there will necessarily be more CO2 emissions in the marginal fields. Does the Council of State see that issue, and will he possibly meet it with some good measures, so that we can get the best of both worlds?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2283	What I know at least is the will of Storting, through extensive decisions, and which is also the will of the government, is that we should reduce Norwegian and global CO2 emissions. The reason why we have proposed for Stortinget to increase the CO2 tax in the Climate Communication is that we know that this is an important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the Norwegian offshore industry, from the petroleum industry. And so is it that we currently have a very low quota price -- much lower than what you're counting on and assumed a few years ago. Last time I checked, a few days ago, he was down to 40 kroner. It may be a little different today, I have not checked it. So the level of the cumulative allowance price and fee that we're now adding is still no higher than what we had years ago. But we have to get up to that level in order for it to bite, and the industry has expressed that it's manageable for them. I look forward to the day when the Storting will adopt this. The majority will then be able to say if they are some of the government's policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2298	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2303	I didn't really intend to take the floor again, but I have so many questions after the Amundsen report, that I feel like I have to ask for some clarification. Firstly, it is impossible to release this so-called 85 pst. requirement, as proposed by the Progress Party. I can't understand it. Amundsen claims he is afraid that Norway will end up as the best boy in the class. But what is the whole point of the revised ETS Directive is that it is the Commission that distributes allowances to all enterprises – regardless of country – from a given date, namely 1 January 2013. There's no room here to get the best in class or the worst in class. We just get very similar classmates. So I'm just wondering: what is the motivation, what is the meaning of this proposal? So to what is said about the carbon leakage industry: Amundsen refers to this type of industry getting 100 pst. free allowances based on benchmarking. Then he says something about it making companies that want to expand their business, or that want to re-establish themselves, have to buy. That's quite a good reasoning, but it's a very similar system for the whole of Europe, and that will make Norwegian companies look just like all their European competitors. When the Advance Party wants to compensate for that – what are you really thinking about? Is it the case here that we mix with the scheme with which the Commission is working, where we are going to compensate for indirect CO2 tax? Because it's a completely different system, which has nothing to do with either expansion or new creations. Or will the Progress Party set up its own special Norse system to compensate for this, where it will then have to pay out money over the state budget to companies that want to expand? What is the extent of what you see here? How much to compensate – 100 pst. of the allowance price? I am also very excited whether we are going to see anything about this in the alternative budget of the Progress Party. So to the petroleum business: the representative Amundsen claims, at the latest in the line exchange here, that the regime to which we add will increase the CO2 cost, for example. in the case of tail production. That's completely wrong! It's obviously misunderstood! Today, the petroleum business pays for the allowances, and the CO2 tax has been reduced to compensate for it. So you're at the exact same level that you've historically done. When allowances are free, everyone in the Committee – except the Advance Party – asks for a case to be resolved so that the petroleum industry does not end up with a much lower cost of CO2. So it would also be interesting to clarify whether the Advance Party believes it is right that the petroleum industry should end up with a lower CO2 cost than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2334	If you want to misunderstand, you can always do it. The point in my post – as I referred to benchmarking for businesses that historically may have a lower output than they have today and in the future – is, of course, just to illustrate that these are businesses that will have a higher cost associated with their production as a result of the ETS Directive. It's a fact, and that means you're also willing to pay with jobs if you don't take any action to meet that problem. It's a fact, it's a reality, and I've even talked to companies that have addressed this question. I encourage everyone from the committee to actually do the same thing. In terms of tail production, there's a question of what the price is. We have just heard a debate where everyone has called for a higher quota price, while at the same time increasing the CO2 tax. When this turns off, it is highly uncertain. That's exactly why I'm addressing that issue – we don't have to face the situation that marginal fields are not being developed in line with the Storting's will because the cost of CO2 is getting too high. That's the whole point, and it's not very hard to perceive. With regard to the 85%, it is precisely to demonstrate and show that it is okay to adopt this directive. However, linking the implementation of the legislative acts we take today to a claim against the European Union does not seem unreasonable to me, because it therefore has some consequences for Norwegian businesses. If the EU, together with Switzerland and Norway, is now implementing this type of action, this is being tightened up, it will have consequences for Norwegian businesses. It must then be possible to make a reservation that at least we cannot practice the most stringent rules in the world, unless the EU – which is our competition partner – does it itself. That's what the assumption is, that we have the same driving rules as our closest competitors. Furthermore, the Progress Party agrees with other members of the Committee on the Directive. We support it, but we want to emphasise the extra importance that Norwegian industry, Norwegian business, does not get unfair competition. We can get into that situation – and I know several companies that can get there – if you don't do anything to compensate, not least what I mentioned about negative impacts of benchmarking. You have to choose – do you have to take care of Norwegian jobs, or are you willing to sacrifice Norwegian jobs on the altar of the climate? Well, at least it's not the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2354	There may be limits to how long we are going to keep this debate going, but I agree with the representative Amundsen that sometimes there is a bit of debate in this Chamber as well. I have to admit, even after Amundsen's second post, that it is extremely difficult to understand what is really in this 85-pst requirement. As long as the rules are the same for everyone and enter into force on the same date for all, it becomes completely impossible to understand, purely practical, what is meant by that 85 pst. shall be implemented. But now leave it. I am much more concerned with what the Progress Party warns through its comments on compensation to companies that are exposed to carbon leakage. I didn't realize that I got any answer to what kind of system they're really looking at. There is a system that does not exist in any other European country at present; it becomes a completely separate special-purpose system, which will give Norwegian companies a competitive advantage for Europeans, since the legislation at the exit point is equal for all. The solidarity in this respect can always be discussed. But is this a State aid institution to be established here? And how much is going to be compensated? Will we see that in the alternative budget of the Progress Party? The representative does not have an answer to that. With regard to the concern about the level of cost of the socket, it is possible to understand that the current situation is that the petroleum business pays half of the CO2 tax, compared to what they did ten years ago, compared to the current oil price. Discussing the level of that charge is not unreasonable, based on what this, historically, has been like. But the government's policy so far has been very clear on the need to adjust the CO2 tax, so that the total burden along with the allowance price is about the same. It is not possible to adjust the CO2 tax when the price of the allowances falls completely, because the price of dropping onto the Norwegian cap will fall like a rock. That the Progress Party thinks it's okay, it's also worth noting. So instead I really wanted to get into the post where Ropstad was worried about too low a quota price, just to announce that there is a concern we share to the most extent. Like the Council of State, we also follow the discussion that is going on in the EU system to limit the quota scope. It is not entirely unreasonable that the debate comes in view of the amount of renewable energy that has been subsidized, that some allowances should also be withdrawn from the market. I also believe that the low quota price is a good reason why, for example. in the climate notification, some measures to be taken also in the quota sector are alerted, because we need more incentives to produce new technological solutions, when the quota price is as low as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2376	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2379	I'm raising the issue, I'm raising the issue in relation to the businesses that come out negatively in relation to benchmarking. It is a reality, and it must also be dealt with by the Committee. I, and the Progress Party, are not launching any systems, we're challenging the government to actually take responsibility for the companies it's going to hit, because it's going to happen, and it's going to have consequences for Norwegian jobs. In the case of a CO2 tax, there is also still to be seen. But it's a warning index finger from our side to where you're going to lie, whether you should possibly have some rules of your own in relation to marginal fields. I think it must be allowed to ask this kind of question, because this is very important. I record that you can discuss the economy as much as you want, but in this case it says that calculations made from economic consequences for Norway are uncertain. Just the uncertainty is what I want to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2391	I just wanted to briefly point out something that I think is important for another impression to make: all my experience from working with the Norwegian industry, but also all the material we have from the listening rounds, clearly points in one direction. It is the Norwegian industry that is in favour of a well-functioning European quota market and of getting a more well-functioning quota market that harmonises legislation better. Norwegian industry thinks they can handle competition on a level playing field with other European countries. To the extent that they have something to emit, it is that that market is not larger and that a similar system that is even wider than in the EU is most likely to exist. So I think this is a tool that works for Norwegian industry, because they are competitive. That's why they give such clear support and clear signals about it. That, I believe, is also the reason why a major support for us to participate in the quota market in the current version.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2396	No more have asked for the word to be given to cases 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2410	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2419	It is a unanimous committee which joins Directive 2008/50/EC of 21 May 2008 on air quality and cleaner air in Europe. I am therefore not going to spend so much time talking about the directive itself. It is an uncontroversial directive that contributes to better air quality measurements in Norway in general and in our major cities in particular. The economic costs of new measuring stations shall be charged to the current budgets of the Ministry of Environment. The Directive is an excellent example of positive legislation, designed by Brussels to benefit Norwegian citizens and Norwegian society. It is strange, however, that a directive that is uncontroversial and uncomplicated will take almost four years to implement in Norwegian law. The Committee asked the Council of State why it has taken so long. The answer was that it usually takes some time before proposals for consent to EEA decisions are promoted for the Stortinget. It does not answer the question, but confirms something we already knew. The Nou 2012 European Survey:2 shows that, on average, 641 days, almost two years, are taken to integrate environmental legislation from the EU into Norwegian legislation. It is, in itself, too long, but less than half the time spent incorporating this directive into Norwegian law. The answer from the Council of State gives no answer as to why it has taken four years – but maybe we get it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2426	The case spokesman spent most of his time focusing on the time before the directive was presented to the Stortinget. I won't comment on it. I just want to refer to the answer the Council of State has given to questions from the Committee, and the Council of State will also have to have an article later, so I expect him to comment on it in that case. Otherwise, I would like to conclude with the case-speaker who said about the content of the directive. As the case-speaker said, it is a unanimous committee to agree to the decision of the EEA Committee to include the fourth EU air quality directive in the EEA Agreement. It is good and necessary that both Norway and the EU are concerned about the quality of the air that we are all going to breathe in. Particles or particulate matter are very harmful, perhaps especially for those who are plagued by asthma and allergies – often it is also a cause of asthma and allergies. One sees in many big cities around people walking, jogging or bicycles with mouthbands. I have to say that it is bad that we have set ourselves such that emissions from car traffic, heating, firing and other things make it dangerous to travel outside. Fortunately, Norway is not as bad as many big cities around it. But the jam also notices it here, at least for periods. There is therefore good reason to welcome all measures that can improve air quality. If this directive is also a contribution to that, it is very good. In any case, the objective of the directive, as outlined, is simply to improve the health of people in less air quality areas. This Directive regulates various substances which may be harmful to health. So far, Norway has incorporated the various air quality directives into the EEA's pollution regulation since the 1996 framework directive. It's very good that it's done. The directive that we are now introducing is primarily a merger and a revision of the previous directives, but there are new targets and requirements for small particles. Otherwise, as far as I can see, it doesn't have all the consequences. The pollution regulation already requires larger particles. To get something done, to reduce emissions, there is a need for monitoring. It's being put up for enhanced surveillance. As the case spokesman was in, the costs are taken over the annual budgets. These are positive and necessary measures. There are good reasons for including this Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2443	The right to clean air, clean water and safe food are just some of the basic needs for well-being and productivity in society. Air quality determines too much of the quality of life, and there is a clear health benefit in maintaining and improving the quality of air we breathe in. Problems associated with particulate matter and particulate matter in the air are too many, in fact, overshadowing in their health status. That is precisely what this directive is about. It is intended to define and set air quality objectives in order to avoid or limit harmful effects on human health or the environment. In addition, the Directive is a significant simplification of the EU provisions in force in 2008, when it was adopted in the EU. This is an uncontroversial and positive case. It was said that this is an example of a positive EU legislation, and we fully agree with that. It can also get directly measurable health care sites that we're going to be happy for. It has taken four years, as has been said here before, from the adoption of the case in the EU to the promotion of the Stortinget. The letter of the Council of State of 29 March 2011 states that the EEA Committee has taken a decision to include the Air Quality Directive on 21 October 2011. It has been explained that all EFTA countries must have considered the Directive to be EEA-relevant and acceptable. Is it that way to understand that the Norwegian EEA Committee has been waiting for one of the other countries, namely Switzerland, Liechtenstein or Iceland? It's nice if the Council of State can answer that in one of its articles. Otherwise, this is just a positive matter, and – as has been said earlier – it is unanimous from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2456	For the centre party it is central that everyone must be secured straight to clean air. We focus on disease prevention. That is why we are pleased that a unanimous committee agrees with the inclusion of the Air Quality Directive in Norwegian law. This is a step towards improving air quality in Norway. The overall objective of the directive is to maintain air quality where it is good and to improve it where it is bad. To achieve this, air quality monitoring is central. The introduction of the Directive will include, inter alia: lead to an increased level of knowledge of suspended particulate matter and its contents. The more we know about the pollution situation, the easier it is to do targeted action to limit it. The new Directive provides new maximum levels and targets for fine-grained particulate matter. This is in addition to the existing maximum levels for coarse-grained particulate matter. I'm glad. It is documented, by, for example, WHO, that fine-grained particulate matter has greater health effects than more severe fractions. The air quality in Norwegian cities is mainly about particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. Nitrogen dioxide comes from the combustion engine in the car. Part of the suspended particulate is from the exhaust gas and partly from the cracking of the road surface. Reheating can also contribute to particulate matter. Several of the cities in Norway have temporary problems with poor local air quality. Nitrogen dioxide, in particular, is a problem. The mountains have even had the small, honorable place as Europe's most polluted city. As regards the presence of fine-grained particulate matter in Norway, developments are moving in the right direction. For example, in the case of nitrogen dioxide, it does not. This is why targeted action is absolutely necessary. Good air quality is important for people's health and quality of life. In particular, the most fine-grained particulate matter reaches into the finest pulmonary diagnosis and can cause damage there. It increases the risk of respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. Persons who already have respiratory weaknesses, such as carbon, pulmonary fibrosis or asthma, are particularly vulnerable. The dust can activate inflammation reactions in the lungs, and particulate matter is likely to potentiate allergic reactions. European population studies show that mortality among vulnerable groups continues to increase, even in the case of short-term increases in concentrations of particulate matter. The Asthma and Allergy Association are very concerned about the adverse health effects this may have and the negative development. They're telling us that 20 pst. Norwegian children have or have had asthma at the age of 10 years. A little over 20 years ago, this was only 10 pst. And in 1950, it was only 2 pst. Unpublished figures show that it's still increasing. This is scary. The centre batch is dedicated not only to measuring the deposit but to implementing solutions to bring the emissions down. Municipalities who want to do it can do it. They can use tools such as time-differentiated tolls and cow pricing to bring down the most polluting car use. Trondheim has used time-differentiated tolls. Private car traffic has dropped by 10 pst., and public transport has increased by 20 pst. In Bergen, the problems of poor air quality are at least as great as in Trondheim. There they have chosen to leave these tools behind. It's a local little bit of fun for the Center Party. Good measurements are a prerequisite for making targeted actions and for seeing whether they work. I hope that this will help more cities make use of the tools that actually exist, for public health. The Directive helps to strengthen the work we are already doing in Norway in this field. This is why the Central Party is in favour of implementing the EU directive on air quality and cleaner air in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2484	The directive on air quality and cleaner air for Europe is a follow-up to the proposal for a thematic strategy on air pollution. This Directive is part of the Clean Air for Europe programme. The air quality directives regulate different substances that can be harmful to health to breathe. The aim is to improve the health of people in less air quality areas. Since the 1996 framework directive came into force, Norway has continuously incorporated the Directives into the EEA and incorporated the requirements of Chapter 7 of the pollution regulation. The directive currently before the Grand Duchy is, above all, a merger and a revision of the previous directives. The court will require budgetary decisions over several years, and there is therefore a withdrawal of consent from the Storting by incorporation into the EEA Agreement. Particles are often called particulate matter. Sources of particulate matter are the use of peak tyres and exhaust emissions from motor vehicle traffic. Refuelling with fossil fuels also contributes to particulate matter. The pollution regulation already requires larger particles, PM10, and action to overcome them has been taken in Norwegian cities. New with this Directive are new targets and requirements for small particles, PM2,5. This is a follow-up to European air quality work. The Directive requires maximum levels for concentrations of small particles. In addition, all countries shall calculate a national reduction target for the period 2010-2020. The reduction target is calculated on the basis of measurements over the period 2009-2010. Requirements for limit values and reduction targets also entail costs for monitoring small particles. Small particles monitoring will take several years to complete. The costs shall be charged to the ordinary budget. The Climate and Pollution Directorate will have a cost of 2.4 million. kr annually for the creation and operation of rural measurement stations for background levels. In addition, the municipalities of Oslo and Trondheim receive expenditure of SEK 1.6 million. kr per year to measure urban background concentrations. The knowledge of particulate matter is improved by more extensive monitoring. We will also be provided with better information on health effects and a better basis for assessing targeted measures. The new Directive also opens up the possibility for Member States to apply for the postponement of time-fixed air quality requirements for PM10, NO2 and benzene. Norway has already committed itself to complying with limit values for these substances. Norway has opened the regulation to search for a postponement of the NO2 deadline, but not for PM10. It also sets new and revised requirements for reporting action plans, monitoring programmes and quality assurance of air quality assessments and short-term action plans when there is a risk of one or more alert thresholds being exceeded. So some comments about the time perspective here. The Air Quality Directive was adopted in the EU on 21 May 2008. Norway then notified the EFTA Secretariat on 28 October of the same year, 2008 that the Directive was considered to be EEA-relevant and acceptable. Before the EEA Committee can decide on the inclusion of the Directive, it must have been considered to be EEA-relevant and acceptable by all EFTA countries. The standard procedure is that the proposal for approval is decided on within the EEA Committee after the matter has been dealt with in the EEA Committee. The Air Quality Directive was discussed in the EEA Committee on 21 October 2011. Normally, there is some time between the decision of the EEA Committee and the proposal for consent being made. We did not get the Air Quality Directive in the autumn session. So the proposition was made early in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2524	Let me first thank the Council of State for giving a more detailed answer as to why it has taken so long to promote this proposition for consent in Stortinget – a far more detailed answer than what he sent in the form of a letter to the committee. I really appreciate that. However, my question is whether the Council of State agrees that it is too long when it takes, on average, 641 days to incorporate EU acts into Norwegian law, as stated in NOU 2012 :2, the European Investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2531	It should be an objective that we can implement acts at a reasonable pace here in Norway. I don't want to characterize it as a general social problem that Norway spends a very long time implementing acts. On the contrary, European reviews that have been made show that we are particularly capable of implementing legal acts, if one looks generally at the broad picture. I would also point out that in this case, as the representative probably heard from the review, Norway notified the EEA-relevant and all EFTA countries had notified the EEA-relevant until it was examined in the EEA Committee. So it's true that it's been a few months since the EEA Committee's discussion before we've presented it, but it's not the time here. These are the years in between, from we treat it as EEA-relevant, and the EEA Committee adopted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2538	Does the Council agree with the description previously on the Environment Ministry’s websites – under his predecessors – that would explain why it sometimes takes a very long time to implement EU legal acts in Norwegian law? That explanation was that there is a great deal of internal disagreement in the government both if directives are EEA-relevant and which department will handle them. Is there a problem and a description in which the Council of State recognizes itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2544	The last few weeks have taught me that the representative Astrup is particularly busy that things take a long time and when they're presented, more than criticising their content, so I'm going to introduce myself well in the future to those questions about the time perspective. Now I believe that I am content to say that it was unknown to me that such a description was out, so I do not want to comment until I have entered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2549	There was a reply that didn't take very long, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2552	Does the Council of State agree that it is important to follow up EU legislation more quickly than the Ministry does, and has it taken any action to ensure that, after the European investigation, the Ministry of the Environment has pointed out that it is one of the departments that spends a long time implementing these acts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2557	Yes, I am busy implementing EEA acts in Norway at a reasonable pace. But once again, I would like to stress that when a country compares countries in Europe, it is Norway that we are relatively capable of implementing it at a reasonable pace, and mainly within the current deadlines. So I'm going to make sure I have the usual attention to the fact that the Ministry of the Environment too is following up on this. To the extent that it can contribute, I would say that this replica box will probably make me remember this question in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2564	After this memory-worthy line exchange, the line chord change is reversed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2580	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2589	It is an important theme that the proposers have put on the agenda today. A unanimous committee therefore commends the Christian People's Party representatives for that. Developments in society have led to an increasing number of people ending their lives in hospitals and hospitals. There are fewer and fewer who die in their close surroundings at home, with their closeness around them. This can result in society's overall less conscious relationship with the natural end of life. The Committee therefore considers that it is important to focus on how society can contribute to a decent end to life for individuals. It is noted in the recommendation that a part has been done to improve the provision of health care to the seriously ill and dying, but it is emphasised that there is a need to expand the provision of health care in the final phase of serious and fatal illness, in terms of both competence and quality. I am particularly pleased that a unanimous committee says that it is important to build on the hospice philosophy and implement it in the health sector and in society in general. Hospice philosophy is based on the whole human being and is based on care and care for and care and treatment of seriously ill and dying persons and their relatives. There is a great need to increase the effort to help the seriously ill and dying and their relatives. Serious disease with a fatal outcome can affect people of all ages. It is therefore important to also focus on serious ill and dying children and the issues facing parents of children born with severe malformations or limited life prospects. Annually, about 160 children die in their homes, without the child or relatives having any professional network around them. A unanimous committee uses the new Norwegian word for such a situation, where the closest ones live with ‘vent care’. The Committee stresses that all have the same rights to be confirmed and to be met with respect in all stages of life. Unfortunately, international studies show that Norway is cutting low in the availability and supply of serious sick and dying. The representative's proposal outlines six areas of action to make the offer more seriously ill and dying and their relatives, and this is where the committee separates teams. The government parties refer to letters from the Council of State, and I expect that they themselves will go further into it. The Progress Party and the Right support four of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. This concerns the proposal to have more than one relief unit in hospitals. From the Medical Association, we have seen that there is a lack of competence and financial incentives in order to get the necessary effort to relieve treatment in our hospitals. Professional calculations say the need for the number of palliative beds in Norway should be 800. Today we only have 200 of these. The opposition therefore requests a bet to meet the necessary needs. We have recently introduced the cooperation reform. It states that many more will have their medical services out in the municipalities. There is therefore a great need to put in place an offer with outpatient teams covering all municipalities, which can contribute to the necessary professional competence with regard to the dying and their relatives, in close multidisciplinary cooperation with various other actors in the municipality and the community. The focus must be on the overall approach and on the different needs arising at many levels. For 10 years, grants have been granted for various projects in the field of relief and care at the end of life. This will be evaluated later this year, and it is important that the good work done does not stop. Competence is also a keyword and an important field of action. The opposition therefore asks for a separate plan to build up the palliative competence of the healthcare system. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party also agree on a proposal to establish their own cancer coordinator position in all municipalities and urban areas. The Cancer Association has now established a grant scheme that the municipality can apply for in order to establish a cancer coordinator’s position. The proposers think this is a very good measure, but that it should be a public responsibility and something that all Norwegian municipalities and townspeople should have established. The Christian People's Party is alone in proposing to change funding for dying patients in hospitals from unit price financing to fully funded framework funding. The intention of this proposal is good. The intention is to get away from the situation that hospitals are penalised financially when they keep the patient alive one day or two more. Today, an additional refund is provided for palliative treatment, introduced by the Bondevik II Government. But in the opinion of the Progress Party, there is every reason to look at this scheme once again, so that hospitals can cover their actual costs to personnel, material, etc. almost every day the patient lives, so that we avoid ethically questionable situations, where it may seem that hospitals are premiered if the patient dies quickly. With this, I would like to address the proposals to which the Group of the European People's Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2619	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2622	As the rapporteur began, there is a broad consensus in the Committee that this is an important area for discussion. That's why I want to start my post by saying that it's important that we not only discuss this in Stortinget, but that it also focuses on this in our respective party organisations. Very much of the care and dignity we are asking for here is to be given out in the municipalities, where our party traps are employers. It is important that we discuss thematics and the field with our own, so that we can focus more on this in municipal care. The proposal is in a way three-thirds. One is about a general dignity at the end of life. The second is about relieving treatment for those who are approaching the end of life, and the third is about changing the system that we have today, that is, about the price-of-funding debate. Before I go into why we are initially positive about the tematics of the proposers, and nevertheless negative about the proposals, I would like to point out that many of these elements are already included in the current plans or in the notified plan, cf. letters of the Council of State. I will not spend much time on what the government parties really think about it, but rather spend some time on some of the details of the case from the proposers. Four of the points are in many ways easy to agree with, because through the 2015 care plan and the 2015 Competence Plan, we fully agree on what is being promoted in this matter. The problem with putting those proposals into one's own plan is that there is a risk of getting too many plans and thus losing some of their implementation, because there are too many plans from Stortingen to deal with those who are actually going to carry them out. We want to be faithful to both the Health Plan 2015 and the Competence Plan 2015, and not – in one way – fragment it by creating a new plan. From that perspective, it might be interesting to hear whether the Right – when they then support four of the proposals – thinks it should be part of a separate plan or whether it should be included in the already existing plans. It could have been interesting. With regard to price financing, we disagree with the proposers on the basis that it is a little scary to change individual elements into a very complex matter where the consequences may not be fully overlooked. That's the one. The second is that if you add it to the framework, you can also risk not getting the focus you should have, and you leave it to the regional health companies instead of the individual health business. This can help you to avoid getting the focus you want. So we're completely in disagreement about that. I record that at least the Right – and the Advance Party, if I don't remember wrong – also disagree with that. In the case of cancer co-ordinator positions in all municipalities and urban areas, the intention behind the proposal can also be widely agreed. The question becomes whether it is appropriate to require all municipalities and urban areas to have a cancer coordinator. The important thing is to make sure that you have a complete treatment for the cancer patients and to ensure that you have a good patient’s flow. Whether it should be added to the municipalities or health companies, I am not prepared to conclude. I'm assuming that there might be some of the issues that are being addressed in the new cancer strategy, and that it's part of a larger whole. That's why it's too early to go into it, because we want to wait for a matter we know to come – which is announced in the Council's letter to the Committee – before we conclude. I would like to say, in general terms, that all six proposals are bet proposals. It in itself makes it difficult for the government parties to think a lot about it, because we relate to our state budgets. In that perspective, it is interesting to see whether this is being re-examined in a short time, in the revised national budget, from those who then support the proposals. In the end, I also want to focus on something that is perhaps as important as the items listed, and which really all agree that we should meet in some way, namely the danger of over-treatment. This has also been documented, and the health authorities have been concerned that it happens too often and then helps not to get a decent end. In cancer care in particular, it will be important not to administer treatment for too long, because then you expose something that is unavoidable and may cause unnecessary suffering. It is also an important part of that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2641	The last question that the representative of Breen raised is a professional question and, fortunately, not politics. I will give tribute to the Christian People's Party that addresses these issues. Experience shows that it is necessary to discuss them over and over again. I would then like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough work and a good account also of the Right, i.e. the opposition, positions and proposals that we are obviously behind. Care at the end of life is one of the most demanding tasks in healthcare and challenges both professionals and politicians. Every day, people experience serious illness and close losses that force them into a totally changed life situation. We meet such challenges very differently depending on how prepared we are, the life situation we are in, reactions in the environment, and not least the help provided from health and care services. Respect for human dignity is put on a serious test when we meet people in the final phase of life. It is in these situations that the real human vision of healthcare and health professionals comes for one day. It's just close to the extremes that we find the value test pieces in our society. Human dignity is especially vulnerable to being violated or threatened in the final phase of life. Death is institutionalized, it is decriminalized and largely left to specialists. Although the offer has been much better in recent years, there are still far too many examples of serious ill and dying getting inadequate help. In order to counteract the demands for health care to contribute to the self-selected end of life, it is important to ensure that the offer given to people at the end of life is as good as possible, both human and professional. As far as possible, provision must be made for treatment, care and care to be provided as close as possible to home or at home, if the patient so wishes. A serious illness affects not only the patient but also the immediate family, friends and community. Many seriously ill people are often isolated, they are not seeking contact themselves, and those on the outside are afraid to care. The specialisation in the health care system means that you can lose the whole of your care. However, the hospice philosophy has shown its way here. The value base is optimal treatment, care and care that addresses the physical, mental, social, spiritual and existential needs of patients. Good, thoughtful offers create trust and security for patients, for relatives and for staff. The main point is that people are met and seen. The number of elderly, cancer-related children, young and adults and chronically ill people who will need a great deal of care at the end of their life, we know that they will increase. The design of the provision of care at the end of life must take into account the different desires and needs of people for the purpose of spending the last days of life. Today, about two out of five die in hospitals and the same number in hospitals. One in five dies at home. It is necessary to give serious sick and dying a real choice as to where they want to spend the last days of life. This is particularly important in the light of the fact that we are a multicultural society, where people have different views on how a worthwhile end of life can be. For many, it will be important to be at home in the final phase of life. Others want to be a place where they can get peace at a good and worthy end. This requires that we both facilitate good home-based care and at the same time build up more hospice, as an offer to those who would like it. If more patients are to be given the opportunity to end their lives at home, in line with their own wishes, we must give them and their family security for good, qualified help. It's absolutely crucial. Ambulatory palliative teams may provide this security, provided that there are flexible arrangements whereby municipal health services and specialist health services cooperate to provide a comprehensive range of services. It is still a long way to go before we can say that we are satisfied with this part of healthcare. The inter-political consensus that emerges here today promises well. But I still think it is important to have some ethical debates and a good ethical reflection both for professionals and not least for us politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2667	In January this year, the death of a hospital was the theme of the NRK news. More and more patients have to die alone because of savings, said nurses to the NRK. In March this year, nurses replied to a study, also by the NRK, that patients in the hospital died without anyone having time to be present. The employees are in despair. An employee says the following: I am proud of the job I am trained to do, but most often I feel that I am not stretching to. Half of the nearly 1,500 employees who were asked in the country-wide survey have experienced that patients die alone in their homes. Although the employees also say that four out of five die a worthy death, every one who dies alone is one too many. The World Health Organisation says, among other things: palliative care confirms life and considers death to be a natural process. It relieves pain and other symptoms and neither accelerates nor postpones death. Palliative care provides support to help the patient to live as actively as possible until death. This is life-help at the end of life. Death is the end of life, and care should therefore integrate both psychological and spiritual aspects. With this background, I think it is worth noting that the use of permanent care for the dying in Norway has been reduced in recent years. Death should be considered so important to a human being that one must have the opportunity to have someone around him at the moment of death. It should be possible to have both relatives and professionals present at the time of death. I think everyone here agrees. It is our responsibility as politicians to contribute to this becoming a reality for all. The entire Committee points out in its opinion that, despite the efforts on the palliative offer, the need for health care in the final phase is increasing. Everyone agrees that the offers need to be further developed. But what's happening today? In fact, in the context of the implementation of the cooperation reform, some municipalities have been so pressured to accept ready-to-write patients that they say that they use short-term places and palliative beds in hospitals for this purpose. The Minister for Health, in a letter to the Committee on this matter, inter alia: Reference to the Government’s objective of offering commitments to 12 000 lucky day care places in the period 2008-2015. It is also worrying that to date there have been fewer than 1000 entirely new hospitals. Many old sick people will also need institutional space in the final phase of life in the future, not least those who are completely alone without family. But if a dying and its relatives feel safe that the dying will have adequate pain relief and medicine management at home, more people will choose home as the place where they end their lives – I have no doubt about that. Increased security and relief at home will reduce the number of hospitalisations and institutions. Provision of outpatient teams, e.g. through home hospice, such as the Franciscan aid here in Oslo, is a fine example that contributes to dignity at the end of life. The Minister of Health and Welfare pointed out in his letter that good action has been taken. That's great. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the need for palliative treatment will be increasing as we get older in the years to come. We need to be quick and strong to meet these challenges. I had therefore hoped that the government would have been more open to our proposals. A good end to life should be a high priority. So finally, a few comments to the representative of Breen's post. If you wanted to have your own plan or incorporate it into another plan – if that was the problem, it would be very interesting if we could have a discussion about it a little earlier. The most important thing for me, as one of the proposers, and for the Christian People's Party, is that we get a comprehensive plan of action, with a time-limited pace of implementation. If it is the case that the government has incorporated or notified all of these proposals, you might still be able to say yes. At least it'll cost the government too. So there are probably more that need to be challenged on which budgets you intend to make commitments. Otherwise, I will address the proposal of the Christian People's Party. I am pleased with this debate and I am glad that everyone agrees that we must bet on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2686	The representative Laila Davøy then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2689	100 years ago, most of the Nordics died in their homes. Today, 40 pst dies. of the population of the hospital and 40 pst. in hospital, and only 10-15 pst. of us die home. The number of people who die at the hospital is increasing. We have experienced and experienced a development in which death has been institutionalized. Many people have little or no experience with deathbeds. Most have argued that public health care and medical professionals are present, taking responsibility and creating security, so that everyone can secure the quality of life at the end of life. The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party is important. They want a special public plan to secure everyone's right to life help at the end of life. Many can understand this proposal. To feel security and to make sure that a family or family is helped when you are helpless and that you are followed up in a worthy way at the end of your life is important to everyone. There has been a marked effort in recent years to improve the health of the seriously ill and dying. Despite the investment, the need for health care in the final phase of life is increasing. A Joint Committee agrees that to improve skills and quality, one must further develop the supply. I am very pleased with the comment of this consensual person. There are many good suggestions on the subject, and there are many good answers from the Council of State on how these proposals are taken care of. I want to focus on the relative's role. This government has introduced a new ten-day leave for employees in order to provide the necessary care for parents and spouses/partners. The right to leave and care allowance has also been extended for 60 days in the care of close relatives in the final phase of life. This is a very important measure. Such schemes make it easier for relatives to contribute and be present at the end of their lives with close family members, to rejoice in their debt, and to rejoice in health care. The Hagen selection underlines that society would not have gone around without the voluntary and mainly family-based care. This workforce will come as a complement to the public and is extra valuable when talking about resource-requiring care at the end of life. They point out that it is dissatisfying that people have had to report sick or retire in order to be able to carry out demanding care tasks for their neighbors. The selection also highlights the need for flexible and good leave arrangements to maintain contact with the labour market. Without such arrangements, caregivers who take on care over a longer period of time may be in a difficult economic situation. The Hagen Committee also proposes to extend this optional destination to an additional year, in order to ensure that long-term care workers can come back to work more easily. The Hagen selection also points to the need for training and guidance for relatives. It does not apply at least when relatives participate and contribute to relief at the end of their life. Then there's something I miss in the Christian People's Party's proposals, there's a greater focus on the need to include and strengthen the relatives' rights and their situation in the work of caring at the end of life. In fact, the Christian People's Party has taken up the need to look at the financing of the palliative supply of hospitals. They propose to remove the lump-sum funding for dying patients in hospitals, thus fully financing the framework commitments of regional healthcare providers. So I notice that the Progress Party and the Right do not support the Christian People's Party on this issue. The central party shares much of the intention behind the Christian People's Party's proposal to change the funding. I would like to refer to the vote on the draft representative on life support plan, which was discussed in Stortinget on 2 March 2010 – Innst. 150 S for 2009–2010 – where it was shown that the Norwegian medical association in its hearing statements on this matter showed that unit price financing, as practiced today, is poor for severely ill patients. A form of financing that premises short rents of death is ethically questionable. It is that patients with advanced disease may have periods of disease with very complex challenges that long-term hospitalisation is necessary. I could wish that we went a little bit more in-depth into this problem than is the case, and that we have the possibility to do in this case, with a lot of different suggestions. Finally, I would also like to point out that the government party in 2010 wrote in comments to the Life Support Plan setting that they: ‘sees that there may be challenges to the financing of palliative treatment at the specialist health service today, and asks the Ministry to review the funding mechanism for such treatment’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2713	We have to make a worthwhile offer at the end of life. Individuals and dependants shall experience this in a safe environment and with qualified assistance. Proposalers point to several possibilities for further development and better provision of people in the final phase of life. I will follow up on the offer to this patient group, among others. through my work on the Health Plan 2015 and the Cooperation Reform. Through the Competence Plan 2015, we ensure that the sector has access to sufficient skilled labour. Providing good care and assistance to people in this situation requires competence, competent people. The municipal care sector has been strengthened by around 22 000 annual works from 2005 to 2011. Growth mainly consists of personnel with vocational training. Medical treatment in nursing homes has been strengthened and needs to be strengthened further. The Health Directorate has published professional guidance on relieving treatment for both specialist and primary health services. Both medical and communication competence is essential. The government will provide investment grants to 12 000 new lucky day care places in the period 2008-2015. Palliative units can also receive such support to expand and develop palliative care. Many will, however, want to be cared for at the end of their life where they already live, in a familiar environment and with well-known staff, whether in a nursing home, in a nursing home or in their own home. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the capacity and competence of relief and care at the end of life, outside hospitals. It is a separate grant scheme for this purpose. It's approx. Sixteen million. kr for 2012. Regional resource and competence centres are also established for the palliation of health businesses. Patients receiving relieving treatment often move between hospitals, hospitals and their own homes. Good cooperation between hospitals and municipalities is essential to create dignity for the individual in what can be a difficult time. It is central to the Interaction Reform that more health care tasks are to be addressed locally. The provision of relief and care at the end of life should be built up as part of the ordinary health and care services. Many of the patients currently treated in hospitals can get better help in the municipality, closer to relatives and in their own surroundings. Relieving treatment and care at the end of life as an integral part of municipal responsibility provides security and predictability for individuals and for relatives. In the course of the year, I will present a new cancer strategy. Relieving treatment and care at the end of life are an important part of this strategy. The strategy shall contribute to improving cooperation between levels with regard to patients in the final phase of life. I have asked the Health Directorate to review the National Action Programme with guidelines for palliation in cancer care. This has been done in the light of questions raised in the proposal of representatives 8:11 S for 2009-2010 on the need for increased commitment to life support and in the timing of this proposal. I underlined in my answer that the guidelines should apply to both adults and children. The Health Directorate is now developing technical guidelines for alleviating child care. The guidelines are expected to be completed in 2013. People will experience that they will have a worthy end to life. This is determined by the guarantee of dignity, which is now regulated by the new Health and Care Act. It must be provided as part of an overall care course. The offer has been strengthened in recent years, and we will continue to expand the provision of care even in the last phase of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2738	It is a unanimous committee that underlines the importance of the overall approach on which the hospice philosophy is based, with care, care, care and treatment for seriously ill and dying people with relatives, is important to build on and implement in health care and society in general. Hospice is a concept and action that has now been removed in the National Action Plan with guidelines for palliation in cancer care. We hear the Council of State say that a new supervisor is now working, who has been out for consultation. How does the Council of State consider that hospice as a concept and measure should be able to be revitalised in line with the Committee's wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2743	I have seen good hospice offers for which there is all respect – both those who work there and the way they have designed the offer. What's important to me is that those who need it get a good palliative care based on competence and built on an organization that suits the individual, whether at home, in a hospital or in a hospital. That's like 95 pst. of patients receiving palliative treatment, e.g. in hospitals, are cancer patients. That is why I have been concerned that this must also be included in the new cancer strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2748	The right is concerned about building up competence in municipalities and also in this care. We point out in our attitude that teaching homes have a particularly important role to play in this building of competences, together with the build-up of skills that we have in palliative units. Just teaching homes also have an important role to play in community health services and in care services in general. My question is whether the Council of State has any plans for, or whether it will ensure, the establishment of a number of educational homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2753	As I have understood it from the start of, it has been intended to have one in each state. The importance of these development homes, which were formerly teaching homes, is that they should be able to develop good offers and to transfer skills to other nursing homes. I've also seen many good examples of that, but I want to stress that it's not the only place you can build skills. I mentioned that we have spent our own money on the budget for building skills. I think it is very important to get a transfer of competences to others on the basis of the good work done in palliative units, as well as the efforts of outpatient teams, which are a bet between the hospital and the municipality, and which is important in order to have greater flexibility in the offer to those who need it and want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2758	I've been to a number of hospice departments, especially in hospitals, not because we have a lot of them – I think I've been to those we have. That's exactly what Kjersti Toppe brought up. I'm not going to repeat it, but at least everywhere I've been, they say that the price-of-unit financing as designed does not do well – we're going to say – the economy of treating dying patients, because they often need very, very long treatment courses, at least when they're in the hospital. I would like to refer to our proposal, which does not necessarily say that we should remove the piece price either today or tomorrow, but get an assessment of it. My question is really whether the Council of State might think of going a little bit more into this, as also the Storting as a whole has been concerned about this earlier, and see if there are other solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2765	It may be wise to look at funding in many things, perhaps within this area as well. If the reason is that you do not get a good enough offer, it is very serious. I have seen several of these offers. We have all our experiences and experiences, but I have never felt that it has been a matter of economics when you have needed a good palliative offer in one of our hospitals, even when it has been one of the ideal hospitals, which for all practical purposes is part of the public health system. What is important is that we find the good quality of this offer, the right competence, the right organization, so that it satisfies the individual and the family in a good way and also meets the individual's desire for where they will end their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2770	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2775	I got a few questions from the representative Davøy. One was that we had not mentioned this before – the reference to the care plan and the Competence Lift. I believe that is a positive error. It says in the setting, with reference to the letter from the Council of State, that we agree to that letter. In the plans we refer to, it's quite detailed. The second question was, it also costs money for the government parties, and what have we got? I can confirm that it costs money – it is quite expensive, quite simply. From 2005 to 2011, there was an increase of 22,000 annual work in the health and care sector. It costs money. When we went in and checked out, in 2011, there was, in general, an annual increase in the number of employees with health and social education. We'll give 300 million a year. kr for competence actions through the Competence Lift 2015. This has led to the completion of basic, continuing training by 14 000 employees in the period 2007–2011. So far this year, 8,700 are being trained through those measures. We have established our own expertise in relieving treatment and care, which we are discussing here, which receives 16 million annually. to develop skills-enhancing measures in municipalities, preferably linked to the development centres in each country. Many of the centres work very concretely with relief and care at the end of their lives. The focus shift that has been only in the last few years in that field is quite impressive. Well, we do a lot. What's a little surprising is that this doesn't have the same focus from the proposers, all the time this is a consequence of the deal with the Christian People's Party and the Left for a few years ago. That was what was part of the building block of the Competence Lift 2015. We are on the move, we deliver year after year, and the goal is that the plan for this round will be completed in 2015, both the Care Plan and the Competence Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2786	Then I thank the representative Thomas Breen for a good review of some of the things we got in our 2007 conciliation – that's very good. I have a wish to say a little about palliation and children. Children with serious and life-threatening diseases and life-limiting conditions also need a great deal of relief in our society, as an overall committee points out in the position. The rapporteur was also concerned about this. The Committee points out that dying and dying children may be one of the most difficult health care issues. It can cause long - lasting wounds even before the child dies. The organisation Yes to relieve and care for children makes a formidable effort to get comprehensive and necessary palliative care for children and young people. Relieving treatment for children must be viewed in a very specific way. Yes to the relief unit and care for children say: ‘An active and total approach to the relief of children starts from the diagnosis or recognition of life-threatening disease from days, months or years.’ [[...]] [[...]] They go on to say, ‘Palliative treatment and care neither expedite death nor prolong the very process of death, but view death as part of life, giving life to life.’ International care for children has taken place in recent years. A number of countries have come a long way in their work. In 2005, The International Children’s Palliative Care Network was established. The Norwegian organisation I mentioned is part of this organisation. It is estimated that at least a thousand children in Norway need relief. Palliative care for children requires both competence and standards, or guidelines, for work. The Council of State was also concerned about the development of guidelines for the provision of palliative care for children. Until now, we've been missing this in the country. It is very positive that the work is now in progress, and that the Council of State says that these guidelines will be completed in 2013. These will be knowledge-based recommendations that we really need. I want to end by thanking the Council of State for starting this important work related to children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2805	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2819	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2828	The proposed representative here is about whether to introduce a free choice of rehabilitation, in line with free choice of hospitals, with the right of patients and users to choose between different rehabilitation institutions. We need good rehabilitation and rehabilitation services across the country, and we want to strengthen this offer. More and more groups of patients and users benefit from the many available habilitation and rehabilitation services. Such treatment is provided both in special rehabilitation institutions, in hospitals and outpatient clinics, in district medical centres and in primary health services. Habilitation and rehabilitation can also take place in other contexts, such as in fresh houses and in centres for learning and mastering. According to an overview from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the purchase of services in private training and rehabilitation institutions has increased steadily since 2006, and this represents more than 1.5 billion. kr in 2011. Such institutions constitute an important part of the provision of rehabilitation services to many patients with different diagnosis. At the same time, rehabilitation is covered by the interaction reform adopted by the Stortinget. In this context, the majority of adults have particularly stressed the need to improve rehabilitation for the ageing population and for people with chronic disorders, and the need for better coordination of services. It also means that primary health services, specialist health services and other rehabilitation actors need to be seen in context, because many patients and users just need an overall plan for the follow-up. I would therefore like to stress that the rehabilitation effort of individual patients is not necessarily to take place only in one place, but in an interaction of the number of sectors and actors involved. Last year, the Health Directorate reduced a wide-ranging sample that has been in swing to look at the relationship between different types of rehabilitation and how responsibility can be shared between specialist rehabilitation and rehabilitation in primary health services. The committee delivered its position in February this year. And seams if the sample believes that we don't have a good enough knowledge to draw the bastant conclusions, the setting just points to the importance of coordinated patient sequences and makes it possible for more patients and users to get good and adapted rehabilitation in the municipal service system, close to where the individual lives. A free choice of rehabilitation can in the long term make it difficult to maintain the diversity of rehabilitation institutions in all regions, as we wish. We agree with the Ministry of Health and Welfare that freedom of choice in private training and rehabilitation institutions – similar to that practised in free hospital choice – does not necessarily guarantee patients complete, adapted rehabilitation and rehabilitation services, because, as mentioned, most people need interaction between different actors and levels of rehabilitation. At the same time, patients and users are often involved in planning a good rehabilitation process. In this way, individuals actually contribute significantly with their own thoughts and views on the rehabilitation to be implemented. This is also fully in line with the practice we put forward through the Interaction Reform and National Health and Care Plan, where patients and users are intended to play an active and co-creating role in the health work of the individual. We recommend that the motion for a resolution be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2847	In this room, all parties – not only in our committee but also in other committees, especially in the labour and social committee – have repeatedly underlined the importance and necessity of good rehabilitation services. Real rehabilitation at the right time has been essential for many people to be able to work and thus also have significant socio-economic gains. In addition, rehabilitation is crucial for many to become the most self-held and to learn to live with their new situation. When my daughter last year suddenly lost her ability to walk, much had to be learned. We were offered a long time ago to stay at Sunnaas, which we are very grateful for today. The arrangement of Sunnaas was much more appropriate than the offer she had at first. Although she probably will never be like before again, the stay at Sunnaas led to her today doing herself and being in full employment. Without rehabilitation she had not been where she is now. Rehabilitation has lost for other purposes when budgets have been submitted in recent years. The National Audit Office’s review of the rehabilitation field for the period 2005–2010 confirms that it is not possible to measure any reinforcement, and it is therefore difficult to see that government parties actually believe it when they say that proper rehabilitation is important at the right time. Today’s situation is long waiting times and bears little impact on finding the most optimal offer. I have too many times met people who say that they got some training and follow-up after serious injury or illness, but that they are doubtful that society has spent a lot of money on him to give an offer that really wasn't the right thing to do. The result for many is that the way back becomes unnecessarily long and thus unnecessary animals for society. In many cases, they point out that they have a feeling that the system is more concerned with having offered than that the offer is actually the right thing to do. We can't have it that way. It is gratifying to note that the entire Committee recognises that the area of rehabilitation needs to be strengthened. The fact that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are finally admitting this is an important step on the way. But joint comments alone do not provide better offers. In its letter of 28 March, the Council of State said: ‘I do not think it appropriate to introduce a system of free choice of services in private training and rehabilitation institutions, as this will not help to ensure comprehensive and coherent services: [[...]] The claim is directly alarming – firstly, because it is claimed that most people do not know what they need, and secondly, because the Council of State does not properly justify its claim or have any suggestions. We are once again sitting with the same conclusion that the government has had for seven years: nothing. This is bad news for patients. Once again, we are witnessing a government saying one thing in the campaign, but not following up in practical implementation at all. On 6 September 2011, in the municipal election campaign, the Secretary of State Council, Ragnhild Mathiesen, visited the Ringen Rehabilitation Centre. Then the Secretary of State of Ringsaker Blad said: ‘It is also the case that we use private health services every day. Not least in the case of rehabilitation. And the new reform is a lot about just rehabilitation. It is important to find out that we are concerned with predictability and the private actors are an important part of the health care system.’ This seems to coincide little with the fact that the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee: ‘An authorisation system has not been established for private training and rehabilitation institutions.’;» Numbers show a decline in the use of private actors, and government parties reject freedom of choice for patients. An overall opposition is concerned with quality, freedom of choice, accessibility and, above all, with strengthening and improving the rehabilitation field and therefore promotes proposals to achieve this. I'm taking this into account the minority proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2886	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2889	Despite the fact that rehabilitation has been raised by several as one of the main health policy priorities in the future, the field remains, as is the case with other health services, characterised by waiting times, queues and unused capacity outside public health. The aim of the right is to provide a high-quality, accessible and diverse range of services to all those in need of rehabilitation. Despite long and growing waiting times in recent years, in addition to increasing needs, several private and non-profit institutions have been closed down within a number of welfare services. In view of this and with a desire for more diversity, increased quality and freedom of choice, promoted representatives from the Right Spring 2011 Document 8:79 S. One of the proposals we had was to put in place a system across the welfare sector with free treatment choices. This did not get the connection of Storting. But now we see the need for the measures in this proposal to be made clear by stakeholder organisations, i.e. patient organisations, who are concerned with weaknesses in the offer as it is now. Among other things, at its annual meeting, the Norwegian Revmatikerbund adopted 28-30. a resolution on October 2011 which requires the introduction of free rehabilitating options. It is shown, among others: that there are many rehabilitation institutions that have the capacity to assist remathematicians, but patients are denied by regional health firms when trying to make use of the offer. It turns out that today’s practices in purchasing private services are too restrictive and contribute to a lower level of provision for users. The right considers that freedom of choice and diversity are an important contribution to providing rapid and good help to all users and patients. Rehabilitation should be available when you need it, and where you want it. Therefore, the Right wishes to introduce a system of free rehabilitating options, whereby all persons entitled to rehabilitation shall also have the right to choose where to offer – well and mark among pre-authorised institutions. Norsk Revmatikerverband has also pointed out that for many patients, ‘quality and rapid rehabilitation are more important than geographical proximity’. The right considers that private and non-profit actors represent an important complement to the public rehabilitation offer and is a necessary partner to ensure that all those in need of rehabilitation can receive the best possible offer. It is important that the public is responsible for financing treatment for patients and users, even if they are to choose to use a different offer from that of the public. A central pricing system should be established which does not discriminate against operators by organisational means in so far as they meet the required quality standards. It is of course necessary to follow-up on a continuous basis in order to ensure that the offers included in the scheme are of good quality, with clear standards ensuring both the rights of users and the predictability of institutions. The quality of the offers must be transparent and easily accessible to patients who are required to make use of free rehabilitation options and to their relatives, for example. through transparent and user-friendly Internet portals. We believe that the involvement of the Norwegian Revmatikerbund is up-to-date on this issue and show the need for a specific consideration of the proposal on free rehabilitating options, as one of the important user organisations concerned believes is important to get in place. We are pleased with the full support of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party for our proposal to ask the government to improve the quality and availability of the rehabilitation offer and to propose the introduction of a system of free rehabilitating elections. Persons entitled to rehabilitation should be free to choose between quality assurance institutions within a transparent system of public funding, which I had in mind in the past. We're disappointed with the government parties, which will again vote down a proposal that could provide faster and better rehabilitation, and give patients the right to choose for themselves. We're disappointed, but not surprised. The Labour Party has never been a driver to give patients rights and free choice – they have only come downhill after they have had to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2912	In this case, the Right proposes that a free rehabilitation option be introduced in Norway, where persons entitled to rehabilitation can freely choose between quality institutions within a transparent public funding system. The centre will stress that private rehabilitation institutions are an important resource in rehabilitation work, that they are an important complement to public health and that they are still to have a central place. In its reply letter to the Committee, the Council of State has done well in a very clear way to ensure that rehabilitation and rehabilitation are a process in which it is important for different actors to participate, including actors in sectors other than health, such as the training kit and the Nav. Rehabilitation takes place both in the community health services and in the specialist services, through outpatient teams, and it takes place through the learning and mediterranean centres, among others. What kind of measures are needed on a case-by-case basis must be considered on a case-by-case basis. We may be a few that much can and must be done to strengthen the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, but we disagree that it is appropriate to introduce a system of free choice of facilities to cope with this. It is also a challenge in relation to a development with additional justice-based healthcare rather than looking at what needs exist, and creating services that cover it. The National Audit Office's report on rehabilitation showed what kind of challenges we have, and one of the things that came out there, was that today there is a great variation between the regions when it relates to the number of patients entitled to physical medicine and rehabilitation. In 2010, 1 pst received. by patients before physical medicine and rehabilitation at the Hospital Telemark entitled to the necessary health care. In comparison, 90 pst. by the patients at Health Leaded so properly. If one of these options is to be applied, it will appear very skeptical. The free choice of rehabilitation is to copy the free choice of hospitals. We have just had a national audit report on it as well, and he shows that the scheme has its clear weaknesses. It is a system that favours resource-intensive patients, and it favours patients with high income and education who can complain. What the Right proposes may be a step on the way to an even more bureaucratic health care system, where the patients who can complain are the ones who win. That's why I'm very much in agreement with the Government's answer, that it's in other ways that we need to strengthen the rehabilitation field than to give patients additional complaints.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2925	Today, we face a number of challenges in rehabilitation, and we have been doing so for many years, with long waiting lists, cows and unused capacity outside public health. We hear about private and public rehabilitation institutions struggling to survive. Some are already closed, and others are in danger of it in these days. It's not because the need is gone. The report of the National Audit Office on Rehabilitation in Health shows that the majority of permanent practitioners in our country have experienced that their list patients are in a worse position pending a rehabilitation offer, and that patients have fallen partly or completely out of work and have experienced a greater degree of isolation. In her letter to the Council of State on the proposal for a representative, she stated that the ‘habilitation and rehabilitation field should be strengthened’ and that the offer should be such that ‘everyone in need of habilitation and rehabilitation offers are adapted to their needs’. But this is not the case today, as figures from health businesses also make it visible. They show that there has been a reduction in the bedtime capacity of health establishments related to 8 pst rehabilitation. during the period 2005-2010. The Riksrevision study also shows that there has been a reduction in the number of days off and day-care services associated with rehabilitation. At the same time, there has been an increase in the number of outpatient consultations, but the increase here is not as high as the decrease in the number of lay days and day stays. There has been a change in the organisation of hospitals, but I am equally concerned about the development of the winding-up of bed beds and the reduction of health care companies – at least I am not reassured. I am afraid that this could pose a risk that some groups who had previously received a rehabilitation offer in the specialist health service could now have a reduced offer. There's a lot of evidence that this is about to happen. The risk will be greatest for patients in those municipalities who do not have a well-established rehabilitation service. That's 16 pst. of the municipalities which do not have, for example: rehabilitation sites in an institution. In these days too, patient organisations express a strong concern about less access to physiotherapy, less access to treatment sites, waiting times, and some also receive rejection. Although figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that there has been an increase in the number of places at the municipal level, many municipalities do not feel the need to meet, and there are great variations around our country. The problem has increased with the introduction of the Interaction Reform and the fact that patients are now being discharged from hospitals in the past. Then we also know that municipalities are less able to provide organised rehabilitation services to younger patients than to older people. So there are many challenges in the field of rehabilitation, and the challenges and needs will be increasing in the coming years, not least given that we will have more elderly people who will need rehabilitation. In time, too, there is an increasing demand for patient autonomy. I therefore hope that in the future habilitation and rehabilitation facilities will be able to choose a rehabilitation offer within a quality assurance system of public funding. When we think about the rehabilitation offer we've had over the years, we have a number of family-based rehabilitation institutions that have traditionally made a great offer to many. There are some patients who have wanted to come back to these years after year. I think that many of the patients would choose these ideal, traditional and good rehabilitation institutions if they had a choice. Given that they're now surviving, all of these, which I'm not sure -- I had a visit from one just a few weeks ago that goes by half the machine -- the patients, we're hoping, could still use these in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2948	I am concerned that those in need of rehabilitation and rehabilitation will receive an offer tailored to their needs. The habilitation and rehabilitation field shall be reinforced. The cooperation reform is an important contribution to this. This proposal is promoted outside the budgetary procedures. I interpret it to you that it is intended that it can be implemented within today's economic framework. Increased resources in one area of the hospital sector, e.g. Rehabilitation will provide less resources in other areas. If the proposal were to be implemented, this would have to be done by granting prior approval, or concessions. Concessions shall be awarded subject to a requirement on institutions. A fixed price is fixed. The free choice of users in institutions that have been granted a concession would imply that the other hospitals in Norway would pay the costs through the regional health establishments. The scheme could provide overcapacity for some services and too little capacity for others. Costs and revenues will be unpredictable both for the institutions and for the hospitals that have to pay. In the long term, it may be feared that commercial institutions will be the main source of power to deal with such unforeseeableness. They will thus be able to compete with some of the non-profit institutions and take over a larger part of those activities. Habilitation and rehabilitation are processes involving many cooperating actors. It also applies to actors in sectors other than the health sector — such as the training seat and the Nav. The specialist health service provides several services that are part of a rehabilitation process. Daycare and outpatient clinics are becoming increasingly common — including in the case of rehabilitation. In addition, services are provided in private training and rehabilitation institutions. Rehabilitation services provided by such private institutions may be one of several measures in a holistic process. Regional health establishments shall comply with the public acquisition laws when concluding agreements with the private institutions. The agreements ensure the quality of the provision of services by regional health establishments in the institutions with which they are contracted. Institutions do not need prior authorisation to participate in competition. Price is determined on the basis of the service to be provided under the contract. In this way, private training and rehabilitation institutions become part of the overall provision in the region. The services to be provided to the individual patient shall be assessed on a medical basis. Leaven to the market to decide freely on the use of private institutions could make cooperation with others providing services in the rehabilitation process more difficult. The aim is to ensure a comprehensive, targeted service. What is important, on the other hand, is to strengthen supply overall. The number of stays in private training and rehabilitation institutions has increased from around 29 000 in 2006 to 40000 in 2011. The increase can be largely attributed to the increase in day-care provision. Greater emphasis on daily services is in line with changes in the organisation of the rehabilitation service. As you know, we are proposing another 200 million in the revised national budget. SEK to finance increased pension costs from private purchases. This is an important signal that the government will continue to invest in these actors. I agree that good quality work must be done in the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation. The instruments of the Interaction Reform shall ensure overall and coherent quality of service, with a high level of patient safety, and shall be adapted to the individual user. Cooperation with private institutions also applies to the individual's habilitation and rehabilitation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2977	Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party and several patient organisations consider it unfortunate that patients in need of rehabilitation do not have a system that guarantees them freedom of choice, as this could provide both better quality and faster treatment. I have to say that I think the Council of State is quite blatant in its rejection of the proposals here, and I have also registered what she says in a letter to the committee, that choosing offers in private training and rehabilitation institutions does not guarantee patients complete and adapted rehabilitation and rehabilitation services. I have to ask for guidance from the Council of State on where she can find this documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2983	What the government is concerned about is that the rehabilitation should be part of a process. It shall be based on medical recommendations and criteria. That is precisely why we believe that once someone has been assessed for rehabilitation, it should be part of the process carried out by the specialist healthcare service. Then I have to say that a lot of rehabilitation is taking place in the municipalities. I was at Aker last night, who has received a fantastic rehabilitation offer, municipal, about which the municipality and the specialist health service will cooperate. It's very important, it's a very good offer for many patients, and this kind of more local offer is also important to bet on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2990	There is work going on — not in the Ministry of Health, but the Council of State is aware of it — in terms of social contracts against the ideals, and a predictable framework is to be created, including for rehabilitation institutions. My question to the Council of State is really whether this work is soon finished and finding its solution. The background for that is, as I said in my post as well, that there are some rehabilitation institutions, non-profit, that in these days actually go for half the machine, and that are very worried about whether they're able to survive this year. So the question is whether you can get into port with this in a short time. I sometimes feel that the Council of State is about to say that we are taking over for the private people and building up new ones in public. I hope that's not what's happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e2997	When I say that today it is set at 200 million. kr to private and non-profit institutions – and there is a wide range of them – to pay pension costs, is because we are betting on these types of institutions. They are – for all practical purposes – a very important complement to public health, which we are committed to caring for. But we disagree with the proposal that is being put forward here on the way to do this. It sounds reasonable and very easy with free user choice, but if you want to be able to control both capacity, quality and costs, you have to have this as part of the entire medical system, and then we're concerned that it should be, and it also has to be pre-approved in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3002	I did not get an answer to my question, and therefore I would like to repeat it: Where can we find evidence that free choice of rehabilitation does not guarantee patients a good offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3007	It can give patients a good offer. My point was that rehabilitation is part of a treatment process. That's one of many parts. Habilitation and rehabilitation are a very important part. I believe that this is best taken care of by the fact that it is a process – that the specialist healthcare service can refer to the right offer in relation to the diagnosis or disease in question. I am very afraid that a free choice of rehabilitation services – which sounds very nice – will provide overcapacity in some places and will at least not provide some of these institutions and will give greater unforeseeability to some of the institutions that we are committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3012	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3017	When you hear the Council of State and the Red-Green representatives on this matter, you have to believe that neither patients nor those who run the institutions know their own best in this area – since this proposal is supported by both patient organisations and the organisations representing the institutions that this will include. It should only be lacking that patients in need of rehabilitation should not also have the option of choosing a place for rehabilitation – as long as they are entitled to rehabilitation, and as long as the institution is approved in terms of quality, of course. It's part of the story that these parties have fought largely against what is of patient rights and the ability of patients to choose. The arguments used are exactly the same arguments that were used when the other rights were introduced. It is quite obvious that it is the system to be protected, and not the individual patient’s consideration. When patient organisations are in favour of this, it is precisely because patients themselves have a clear view of where they want rehabilitation, and not least in the area of rehabilitation, there should be a strong emphasis on the patient's own desire. When the Council of State talks about the patient's desire in this area, the use of words is suddenly changed from talking about patients to talking about the market. The Council of State says that this cannot be left to the market to decide freely. But the market in this round is the patient. It is the patient who should be given the opportunity to decide this – a patient who has already been granted a right. The Council of State's concern about the economy must also be unfounded here, because these are patients who have a right to rehabilitation. It is not that patients in Norway are free to choose to be rehabilitated. Of course, that's the way to have a right to that as well. Institutions will be recognised, and it is not least those institutions run by NPISHs who have great credibility and who have developed a good name and reputation among patients, who will have great opportunities in this field. However, it is essentially about patients in need of rehabilitation who should have the same rights to choose freely as patients in other areas of health care. That's why this is a proposal that the Right is going to repeat until we get an impact on this patient's right, too, as we've had an impact on all the other patient rights we've proposed over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3032	Just a short note. Several user organisations have been involved in the sample that has identified functional distribution between the primary health service and the specialist health service in the field of rehabilitation. The sample concludes that we now need more rehabilitation in the primary health service. Large patient groups will profit more from having rehabilitation close to where they live – not least about the chronicler, on whom we have now put a greater focus through the cooperation reform. The representative, Höie, is talking about who knows best what works. Anyone who knows something about rehabilitation says that we know too little, but what we can conclude from is that we need more rehabilitation in the primary health service. I also believe that the proposal for free rehabilitating options, which we have discussed here, can make it much more difficult for rehabilitation institutions – not least in the part of the country where I live – and lead to commercial ones growing at the expense of the ideals, on which the Council of State was also involved. I also believe that the proposers should bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3039	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3046	The cancellation is then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3054	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters held at the Storting meeting on 8 May 2012 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3057	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3065	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3 from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit during the spring 2012 session a plan of measures that can be implemented quickly to reduce the overall concessional period for power generation and transmission networks.’ Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘An expert committee is set up with a view to developing simpler legislation with less duplication, more efficient processing and better coordination between energy and environmental authorities. The Committee makes its recommendations in connection with the 2013 State Budget.’.» Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘Time limits for the application and review of energy installations at NVE and OED and their sanctioning regimes are established. The time-limits must also include other actors who, through the law, have the capacity to record concessional issues.’;» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3090	The left has announced that they will support the proposals. The voting boards showed that there were 49 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.14.42]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3099	President! I have voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3104	I have also voted incorrectly. I looked at Anette!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3109	With this extensive misappropriation process, the President will take the vote again, so that we are sure that we get the right number of votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3128	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to keep track of the changes in the regional network system and to present a holistic approach to the issue of future regional and local networks.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3155	It is the majority of the committee, i.e. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which is behind II in the position. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party then want to vote against the second vote. It shall not be counted against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3172	It is then voted on the Committee's position on the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3186	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Tor Sigbjørn On behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a new coal-fired power plant with CO2 cleaning and storage from day one on Svalbard and that this can be completed by the end of 2015.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size assumes that the State will cover the costs in excess of the allowance price for this installation, but that the liability and risk of taxpayers is clearly defined in the project.’;» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3212	The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3229	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Incorporating Council Directive 2009/29/EC into Norwegian law, it is to be taken into account that the amendment of the law is implemented at the earliest when at least 85 per cent of EU countries have implemented the Directive in their respective laws and practices that are also in line with this.’ [[Revised allowance directive]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3549	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3559	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3599	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, from Laila Bavøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider removing the lump-sum funding for dying patients in hospitals and thus fully financing the framework appropriations of regional health companies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3628	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a life support plan including the creation of cancer coordinator positions in all municipalities and urban areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3647	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a life support plan including investment and operation for several relief units in hospitals.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a life support plan which includes at least 600 new municipal relief centres over the next four years and grants for their operation.’ [[lower]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a life support plan which includes the establishment of an outpatient relief team covering all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a life support plan involving the enhancement of the competence of health professionals.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3686	During the debate, Kari Kjønaas Kjos has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to improve the quality and accessibility of the provision of rehabilitation and to propose the introduction of a free choice of rehabilitation, where persons entitled to rehabilitation can freely choose between quality assurance institutions within a transparent system and with public funding.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3699	The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-15.ana.ud92e3769	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
