ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e26	The representative, Kari Henriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Before we start today's business, the president will inform Stortinget that we are now bringing Ida Børresen, our newly appointed director. We warmly welcome Ida Børresen for a constructive and good cooperation with Stortinget – with the representatives of Stortinget and further development of Stortinget's business. [[The representatives applauded]] Welcome. We will come back to thank the former director in a proper way on a later occasion. The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e38	As I said, I would like to make two representative proposals. The first is a proposal by the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tåldal, Kenneth Svendsen and signed on equal rates of VAT on foodstuffs. The second proposal is from the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Jørund Rytman, Peter N. Myhre and signed to reduce border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e47	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e59	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, Mr. Liv Signe Navarsete and Mr. Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e66	To the Minister of Municipal Affairs: Never before have the housing in Norway been more expensive than they are today. This makes it increasingly difficult, especially for young people, to establish themselves in the housing market. The party of progress has often owed the government to be passive. But right should be right, it's not in all areas government is passive. In one particular area, the government has been active, and also creative: when it comes to creating new bans, laws and detailed regulations that make housing in Norway more expensive. This, of course, makes it even harder for young people to establish themselves in the housing market. Not long ago, the government came with proposals for universal design, which meant that there would be room for wheelchairs also in the very smallest dwellings. Of course, the smallest dwellings in particular can be significantly more expensive — and the smallest are no longer built. The last area in which the government has shown activity is so-called passive house. Here is the proposal, and the plan that all houses should be built as passive houses before 2015. This means that they should be almost hermetically closed. Should not have valves, should not have shutters, and should not allow windows to be opened in houses. It's an experiment, because we know little about how this will work in our climate. There may be problems with roots and moulds, etc. But the worst part is that this will be a new requirement that will make building buildings in Norway even more expensive. Then my question to the municipal minister is: why does the government make it increasingly difficult for young people to establish themselves in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e77	It is, with respect to reporting, a good activity in the construction of new dwellings. It also has our growth in housing prices. The fact that prices are highest in the press areas is clearly a challenge, especially for young people who are about to establish themselves. Therefore, the government has strengthened both start-up loans and other instruments to ensure that young people have opportunities to enter the housing market – a market-driven market, where it is the players that are building up and where I have not heard that the Progress Party has at any time called for a state housing supply. Creating better social and economic distribution is an important part of the government's housing policy, which we follow in the annual budget and through the policies we pursue in different areas. If we're to avoid going backwards into the future, when we're building houses, we have to make sure that we have an ageing population. We have to make sure that we have a standard of living on the dwellings. The buildings that are built especially in the press areas, apartments, are attractive to people in an older phase – they like to sell the single house. Building houses today – apartments today – without universal design is going backwards into the future, when we see how demography develops in Norway. It is also good for those who are young – it is good for us all – that they are available, and that everyone can choose freely where they want to live. It should be a human right. In addition, the government is busy with the climate. We are now working on looking at the follow-up to the Climate Communication, that we should be at passive house level. We're not there that we've prepared everything yet, but it's also taking future seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e86	In fact, at least the government is running a detailed management system that allows it to be built far fewer dwellings than is needed. One also comes up with new demands that make housing more expensive. The fact that there are more expensive estates and more expensive dwellings makes it very difficult for young people to enter the housing market. In addition, aggravating capital requirements will be added. It is such that passive housings should be virtually hermetically closed – one should also not be able to have windows open. Now there are many around Norway who want to sleep with the window open on the bedroom, there can be a lot of activity there that means that it might make sense with some fresh air. [[Laughter]] Then the question is, does the Council of State mean that it should not be allowed to keep the window open on the bedroom in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e95	Without commenting on the activities, it is precisely what the representative Hagesetter takes up, one of the areas we are now discussing and reviewing – not what activity is happening in the bedroom, but how to get a good indoor climate, a best possible indoor climate. The health effects of passive houses are one of the areas clearly specified in the Climate Communication as a point with which we will work until 2015, in order to ensure that the houses to be built after 2015 will be good to build. Then the industry is far ahead of politicians – at least when we hear the question that comes here today. The industry is offensive, ongoing, it is built several thousand passive houses now. It's a building under construction. I was in Trondheim yesterday and was told by the spokesperson that a building complex in Trondheim is connected to passive houses. The same thing happens here in the city. So housing prices are increasing much more than the construction cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e102	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e105	I believe that the Council of State says that it is possible to obtain a loan to pay the additional costs that the government's proposal will bring to housing. We know – as Gjermund Hageseter said – that very many of Norway's population want to have an open window, for example. in the bedroom, not least summer time, to get enough oxygen. We also know that if it is not possible to open a window on the room, another technical tool is needed to be able to adjust the temperature, for example. some rooms. Does the government really think that those who are going to build houses now, especially young people, have to deal with these extra costs – which will result in not building so many dwellings?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e112	New buildings make up approx. 3 pst. of housing material. Clearly, existing housing stock is also highly relevant to young people who don't want to live in a passive house. So I know that a lot of kids just want to live in passive homes, because they're busy with the climate. They are concerned that the construction sector is responsible for 40 pst. of energy consumption in this country, that energy consumption is linked to climate change and that it is an important key to reducing climate change both in Norway and in other countries. Here we are not a special sight in Norway. This is a territory that will be actively worked on in many countries. Fortunately, forward-looking politicians – who together with a forward-looking government in Norway and governments in other countries – see this as an important way to go. It's the modernisation of the construction market, and it's always so that when it comes to modern and forward-looking thoughts, they meet the resistance of conservative forces, as they see in the Progress Party. I'm absolutely sure this is the right way to go, and then we'll take the time the government has said to carefully consider the steps we're going to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e119	Michael Tetzschner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e122	In the extension of what we can call cost drivers in the field of housing production – which the previous question asked was about – I would like to bring up with the Council one of the other cost drivers who are involved in raising the threshold especially for first-time settlers on the way into their first dwelling. This applies when the Financial Supervisory Authority, which is not directly under the instruction of the municipal minister, who made a claim for increased equity, from 10 to 15 p.m., or from the purchasers' side, an increase in the requirement for equity by 50 p.m. What I wonder if the Council of State can shed light on is whether the Council of State, as the country's responsible Minister of Housing, was aware of these plans in advance, whether they were submitted to the Ministry of Local Affairs or to the Council of State, and what in that case she responded to this requirement for increased equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e130	The internal procedure in the government I don't think I'm going to file for Stortinget. But, of course, such issues are discussed and, of course, the municipal minister, as responsible for the housing market, will be busy having access to good funding for both young people and other groups. It is therefore also clarified that the initial loan must be subject to a ‘specific assessment of safety’ as it is called. The financial supervision has therefore clarified that the 85 pst rule may be waived if either the borrower has additional certainty or the bank has made a special assessment that states that the deviation is justified. In the case of start-up loans, municipalities are responsible for forwarding them. It's the municipalities that make a special assessment. That means that the initial loan should be able to function as before, with certainty that people will use it to buy a dwelling as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e137	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e140	Mr Rune Bjerke of the DNB was in charge of strengthening the BSU scheme in a reading article in the Business Life of today on 8 July 2011. He indicated that the housing prices had been doubled in ten years, without the financial limits in the BSU being involved. The mountains said that well over half of the young people between the ages of 17 and 34 thought they needed 300,000 kroner in savings to buy housing. The Central Party's fiscal spokesman, Per Olaf Lundtägen, also said to the evening post a few years ago that the restriction of the BSU scheme was a false message to young people, and stressed that this was an important matter for the Central Party. The question is how important the matter really is, when nothing happens in the majority government. During the examination of the State budget in the autumn, the Christian People's Party proposed to increase the amount limit to NOK 300000 for total savings, DKK 25 000 for annual savings and increased deductions to 28 pst. How bad must the situation be for young people on the housing market before the government gets on the road with similar improvements in this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e149	Both the Centre Party and the other two government parties, SV and the Workers' Party, are concerned about the problems of young people in the housing market and improvements in the BSU system. It is one of the questions I consider in connection with the housing message that I will submit to Stortinget. I am very aware of the proposal from the Christian People's Party and have also noted that it is constructive input that we can definitely be with and discuss further. We want to ensure young people access to the housing market, while it is not such that it is a human right to walk straight on the most expensive dwellings. Young people have, throughout all times – even when I and certainly the representative were young – started small and built up on a housing market, a market where the construction costs, which it has been focused on here today, according to SSB, went up 3.2 pst. From 2011 to 2012, but where prices of used dwellings went up a lot, much more, almost three times as much. So it has something to do with the market and... that affects prices. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e156	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e159	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. The predecessors of the state councils became gradually aware of a policy that increasingly overthrew municipal decisions. We see many examples of state agencies setting aside unanimous municipal government decisions without further delay. For the Right, local democracy is a value in itself, because local processes take account of local conditions, local identity and not least lead to better anchoring. These are important criteria for achieving a good result. Government governance, on the other hand, undermines this, and it weakens the motivation to engage locally. It is also interesting that the first female recipient of the Nobel Prize in Economics received its 2009 price for its work to demonstrate these contexts. The right has promoted a wide range of proposals to strengthen local self-government. They have been defeated by the government parties – one at a time. There are many examples of state overrides. In Trysil, interested landowners and the municipality made 11 specific demands to participate in the process of creating a national park and a nature reserve. No one was taken as a result. In Nittedal, a unanimous municipal government went in to make minor adjustments to the mark line. They have only been met to a minimum, to a great extent, by local frustration. My question to the Council of State will therefore be whether he intends to put himself on a different and more appropriate line than his predecessors in taking community seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e172	If I'm allowed to start with the main image as I see it, the main picture is that in Norway, we follow the principle that decisions that essentially concern the local level are to be made at the local level, the municipal level or the regional level. However, when important national or international considerations come into play, we put ahead the first leads and regulations, but we also have safety valves, for example. if significant concerns such as species defect would enter the image, or concern for international conventions. This can also be seen by the fact that most types of planning and regulation matters are actually decided locally – yes, also conflict-filled and difficult issues. But then there's also a bunch of examples of how it's going to be drawn up nationally. My perception is that it's right that we have that kind of security mechanism. It is right because I believe everyone understands that if local decisions significantly affect either national climate or species diversity ambitions or other policy, it must be a way for national authorities to follow it. It also exists in other policy areas. The second is that it's easy to think that only with us can we make an exception for that, that's a good reason, but the sum of everyone thinking that just with us is going to be e.g. the evolutions we have seen in coastal zone policy along the whole oslof soil area. So I'll still add that I'm going to go into this field with an open mind. We have changed state councils in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but we have not changed government, nor have we changed politics. But I'm going to go into those discussions in different fields with an open mind, and I'm actually looking forward to debating it both with the Storting and other instances ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e183	I thank you for the answer, but unfortunately it doesn't give you any hope, if I can use that expression, about a change of pace in this field. But I understand that the Council of State has had a few weeks in its new office – we understand that. My main point is local autonomy. Let me elaborate on another example, which may not affect the important core points that the Council of State addresses, and the Right agrees in many ways that we should take care of the most important natural qualities. The right has proposed to give municipalities more local responsibility for enforcing motorised outland traffic. It was voted down by the government parties here in this hall. But then we've seen in retrospect that several central and local politicians from the Workers' Party and the Centre say that this is something we think is good, we'll work for. There's still what the government is doing with it. But does the Council of State think there is reason to really take a roof to lift respect for local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e190	I am a little uncertain as to how much expectations the representative actually had for a complete change of policy at the state council. The policy is firm, but I'm going to go into the individual issues and evaluate them carefully and right on arguments both ways, and do it with an open mind. That's what I think is important, because very many of those things are big and decisive for the local environment it's in. When it comes to the question now finally, I recorded that there was a wide debate about it in the Storting not long ago, in which my predecessor, Erik Solheim, participated, where he said he would look at the possibility of giving the municipalities greater authority in that area. I'm going to follow it up and look at it. I have also read through the entire debate and listened to the various articles – it was an interesting debate. I'll go into that field and work hard on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e197	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first by Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e200	It wasn't just a broad debate a few weeks ago; it was a question last week about motorized travel in the outfield, where the Council of State effectively slammed the door again for all who had hopes of getting an embellishment, so that local democracy could get more power in the case of motorized traffic. The door was slammed again while very many red-green representatives still had their hands in the door frame. It usually hurts. My follow-up question therefore goes to the Council of Ministers of Navarsete. The government must not just live with the fact that the double communication here is big, but we have a few, lucky municipalities that get to live with a much freer code in this area than most others. My question is then whether the Navarsete Council will help Solhjell and the Ministry of the Environment to understand that local democracy actually takes the responsibility it can be given in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e208	This is a matter for the government to discuss. The government has not submitted a case on motor travel in the field, and we get to get back to the case when we get that far. It's not a secret that there's a certain inconsistency attached to this field, and we're going to find a good compromise, which will certainly be good for local democracy. There's at least a lot of community involvement around this, and it's of course important to listen, while we don't want a development at full speed, free movement, and a lot of noise and noise. There must be an organized system and in organized forms, and both Solhell and I trust that we will find a good compromise, which will also serve not least to the inhabitants of the municipalities. They're the ones that primarily apply, and they're divided into the view of what they want. Many people want peace and quiet, but we also need to make sure that those who need to use motorized travel get it in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e213	Henning Skumsvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e216	My question is to the Minister for the Environment. In the past, political issues from the municipalities were dealt with by state politicians. That's not the case now. Now we have one thing in particular about the beach plan in that municipality and region I live in. I wonder if the Council of State will take a look at this, whether it is not wrong for bureaucrats to sit and decide on important issues that have received broad political support in the municipalities. If the answer is not yes, that he will go in to look at this and soften a little, does the Council of State think that the bureaucracy either at County, County or Department is so much better suited than the local politicians to decide on matters that really affect the individual citizen in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e223	If the question relates to counterprobability, my answer is no, I don't want to remove that possibility. What I mean is important, and it's given by politicians, elected representatives, who have decided that we should have a code, and then we saw some to follow that code. I think we have to turn that debate into what he is, that is, a debate on what political legislation we are going to have, who has to have authority to make decisions, and that we have seen people follow it up. I think it's right that the main picture should be that decisions on the plane and the area are made locally – that's how it works today – but there's a good deal of case where there's a need to look after national considerations. That we make people do it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e228	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e231	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. Two weeks ago, I had prepared a question for the Environment Minister in the Question Time. I was going to ask him what were his three most important areas as a new Environment Minister, but unfortunately the minister did not have the opportunity to answer questions in the Chamber, because he had called in a press conference on the new climate communication in the middle of the Question Time, which has been written a lot about in retrospect. I will leave it, because the Minister for the Environment has answered my question in writing. The answer is, among other things: as follows: ‘The three main areas for me are offensive climate policies, sustainable use of Norwegian nature and environmentally friendly development in cities and agglomerations.’ This is a good and promising answer, I think. I'm not going to criticise the Council of State for not delivering policies, for what his predecessors spent four years on, namely not delivering a climate report – because he didn't get enough through – delivered the Council of State Solhjell in four weeks. Had the content of the policy been in line with the pace he has set, and the programme declarations he has come with, many of us would have been happy with climate champions, but that is not the case. On paper, the climate communication states that the objective of the climate agreement is to take two thirds of the emissions in Norway, but no attempt is made to explain the impact of the measures proposed by the government. It is simply written, ‘It is not possible to estimate the effect on a safe basis’. Some have tried to estimate the effect, and they have reached 8 million. tonnes. It's Bellona. But I believe that when the government and the minister say that an offensive climate policy will be pursued, the Minister for the Environment has a note on his point, and my question is: is there enough action delivered in relation to the objective of the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e243	Let me first say that I agree that it was unfortunate that I was not here in the Question Time two weeks ago – I have said this from the pulpit before and sent a letter to the Stortinget about it, but I would like to repeat it. I believe that the reason that the climate message has been as well received as she has been is that we are continuing to set very ambitious targets towards 2020, and that one, when one goes into it, sees that there are realistic goals to achieve. Let me briefly say why I think it is realistic to achieve the 2020 target. Firstly, we have already implemented comprehensive measures – from the climate agreement to the future – that have an impact. The estimate we give in the climate statement is that they will reduce emissions by about 5 million. tonnes, roughly by 2020, and that is one of the reasons why we can adjust the estimates down to 2020. Secondly, we are launching comprehensive measures in the climate communication. It is very difficult to give a calculation of the impact, but there is no doubt that there is much greater scope for action than what is already in the climate agreement. That it will have a significant impact by 2020, I am also in no doubt about it. Thirdly, we are not going to stop politics now, doing nothing more from 2012 to 2020 – on the contrary. First of all, new ideas and proposals are coming up, and if we look at the history of the climate agreement, it turns out that much of what has been done in the last five years is not mentioned in the climate agreement: rail deployment, new building requirements – it is only done because it was proposed. We also need to report on developments. Yesterday, new information on greenhouse gas emissions showed a reduction — mainly for reasons other than policy this year. But if one compares the real emissions in 2011 with what we thought they would be five years ago, then they are significantly lower – a little by chance and a little by reason of the policy's functioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e258	I am glad that the Council of State does not take the reductions we had in 2011, as income for political action, because unfortunately it is not. I don't think we're going to blow up today. Yes, it is demanding to calculate the effects of climate action. But climate cure was just the recipe for us to calculate the effects and costs, and for us to make this picklist. That's what the climate cure was commissioned to do. In the climate report, we haven't got a recipe to calculate the effects, we haven't got a recipe to calculate the costs, the sum doesn't go up: we're going to decrease by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes by 2020 – it will be demanding. The measures put on the table by the government in the Climate Action Communication are now set at 8 million. tonnes in 2020 – that is half. How is the Council of State going to make this go up?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e267	It should be because we have a realistic goal to achieve – based on what we have done, the new measures, and that we have the opportunity to adjust the course and do new things. I'm very skeptical of a thinking where in 2012 we think that we have the recipe for what society is going to look like, exactly. So many things happen that change the course and change the premise. What we can have is a target that drives us clearly in one direction, and many concrete actions in different sectors that make us follow up. The same is true when we present the national transport plan, the petroleum policy, the industry, the construction sector and other areas. There is the right balance between not having an exact recipe and not doing anything: clear goals and tools that follow it. We have presented this with the climate communication. I believe that the very positive response I experience in many places, just gives clear hope that we will reach the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e276	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Øyvind Håbreek.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e279	The railway is mentioned in the climate agreement. When the government joined in 2005, there was no way how much of a change of pace was going to take place in climate policy. Then there were 15 years left until 2020 – now half the time has passed. Halfway, the government delivers a climate report where it says – and I would like to remind you again – that no attempt is made to explain the effects of the new measures. It is simply written that it is not possible on a certain basis to estimate the impact of the investment in 2020, and it is written that changing assumptions will have an impact on the achievement of climate targets. It is the message halfway out in the period until 2020. The question is simply: are climate objectives to be achieved in the climate agreement, or are they only to be achieved if this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e289	I am completely dissented in the description that the red-green government has not done much since 2005. On the contrary — internationally, Norway has again taken on the leadership of international work in order to reach an agreement. One of the most important climate measures currently being implemented internationally is the climate and forest project, which was agreed in the context of the climate agreement, which has a high international interest and which will have a significant and rapid impact on greenhouse gas reductions. Here in Norway, we've had a change of pace in the railway investment, we've built up the testing center on Mongstad, renewable energy, and we have a lot of other things as well. With the Climate Communication, we are strengthening it – at the top of this – with many new measures, in order to achieve the goal we have seen in 2020. And yes: when we see a goal, it's because we're going to achieve it, and we're doing things that we think make it realistic to achieve the goal we have for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e296	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e299	Of course, the representative Heimdal is right. There's a certain distance between objectives and instruments, if you look at the climate communication, and it might as well be. In the case of one of the measures, passive houses, which have been rewritten in Norwegian media, the VG had an article on 26 April where Block Watne says that the introduction of the regulations on passive houses from 2015 will lead to housing becoming 250,000 kroner more expensive. Block Watne has some idea of this, I think. Since the SV has often addressed young start-ups and the importance of facilitating their entry into the housing market as homeowners, the question is really addressed to the Council of State: In the choice between symbolic climate action and young start-ups — what are the reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e308	It's no wonder that the representative thought it was a symbol policy, because he doesn't believe in the problem. But for us who believe in the problem, it's real politics, real things that we're going to get. The Minister of Local Affairs has done a good job here so that we will now have to work with passive houses and what the exact requirements will be. That's the direction we give in the climate communication in that area. I believe that development costs can be slightly higher, but better houses, which are tighter, and which over time will provide lower electricity are progressing for the population, just as it is progressing if we get less queues, better public transport and cars with less emissions. I wonder that the Progress Party is so sceptical about the progress we can make, which makes it better for us both in the field of construction and in transport. That's what I think is nice. That they didn't think there were important climate measures, okay, but when there was such positive progress, with other positive effects, I thought they would be more positive for the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e319	Nikolai Astrup – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e322	Let me first say that it is nice that the Council of State boasts of the forest effort proposed by the Right in the 2008 climate agreement. It is a measure that can really have an effect, and that is good. So there is no particular doubt that if the government had started working on the climate communication a little before, it would have been easier to achieve the targets we set in 2020. Now there are seven years left of what was initially a twelve-year period. I therefore think it might be time to raise the eye and challenge the Council of State on what he sees as being good goals for Norway in a 2050 perspective – as there is now so little time left for 2020, and very many of the measures proposed by the government, which in themselves are good measures, will only take effect after 2020 anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e329	If the Right stands by the goal they have committed themselves to in the conciliation, but I think the measures are completely inadequate in relation to it, I look forward to seeing what extensive new measures, at the top of it, the Right will put forward in the further work. But otherwise I agree with the representative Astrup that the perspective towards 2050 is extremely important. In any case, it has been very leading for me in the final work on the message. In two areas in particular, we see this clearly: the new climate technology initiative, the fund, will first and foremost deliver results after 2020 – well beyond 2020. The transformation of transport policy we are going to see through in the metropolitan areas of Norway, and which we have to take, will take many decades. All realism attests to it. But we can't let it start to do it now, rather I would say that when something takes a long time and is important, we have to start quickly with it. So I'm in complete agreement: if we're going to become a low-carbon society, with 50-85 pst. lower emissions by 2050, as recommended by the UN, we must make the major changes quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e338	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e341	The question goes to the Minister for the Environment and concerns cultural memory policy in general and archaeology in particular. Let me first stress that there is a broad consensus that it is important to take care of our cultural memory, because it has to do with our identity and cultural heritage, and the Progress Party believes that it is important to give the necessary legitimacy. There is also broad agreement on the need for search and registration for the future. However, we see today that the binding of areas with known, less findings, or the blocking of areas for later excavation, as well as the almost uncritical cost tax on action holders, intervene and reach ever-increasing heights. As an example, I can refer to the Hestvikholman industrial area in Averøy municipality in Møre and Romsdal, where costs came in at almost 11 million. kr. When it comes to cultural memory policy in particular, we think that one said no to hotel locks in the eye, until the Riksantik product put its foot down and gave permission, as requested. We have also seen examples of Sande municipality being denied the extension of the molo because the molo will give poorer views to the tomb. Conservators talk about great findings, while others in the trade community think it's expected less findings. An example of a stone's wrench is Rong's wrench. This is an example of professionals who have damaged the legitimacy of cultural memory policy. We look further when it comes to archaeological excavations, that action-holders get the bill, whether it's for the public or it's for the private, based on the opinion of individual archaeologists, where a clear regional difference is seen. This in turn leads to claims that archaeologists can dig as long as they want and wherever they want, and use as long as they want to assess. They can conclude as they please, and at Tännnes in Tromsø they spent more than three years. This leads to more expensive expansions, more expensive constructions and less land so that fewer young people get housing. The question will then be: Does the Red-Green Government think that these are the desired consequences of their policies, or is the Council of State willing to address this issue in order to strengthen the legitimacy of anti-memory policy and to give greater guidance to developers and policy-makers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e354	First, I just have to say that I'm very busy and engaged in cultural memory issues, and I'm glad that the representative is too. I believe that we will increasingly live with memories of the stories of our close and distant history around us in the daytime, and that it means much more to ordinary people around Norway than what appears in the national press. I record that one almost never writes about cultural memory in the big Norwegian tabloids, for example, but if I turn up in local viewers or see in my inbox, this is a quite dominant part of the local debate and the messages I get. So there's a lot of commitment about this around. Then I have to say that we have significant challenges when it comes to cultural memory policy, including strengthening skills and increasing the chances of following up cultural memory in a good way for the years to come for those who are going to work on it out. I agree, even if a lot has been done. We are therefore now working, among other things. with a big message on cultural memory policy, to come next year, to address these issues. Then I must say that I have great confidence in the Riksantikvarn and in the professionals who work, for example. with the individual archaeological excavations, do it on a professional basis. I like to go into debates, whether it's about individual matters or more generally about the economic side of it, but my starting point is that I have great confidence that this is being done in a professionally justified and good way today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e363	We see that when it applies to the municipality of Herey in More and Romesdal, they now have a significant problem in getting the area released at a cost that makes a good bet on it, whether it's for housing or for industry. With regard to costs incurred in connection with archaeological excavations, i.e. the Hestvikholman industrial area in Aver Island, where this came in nearly 11 million. kr. One had installed PCs and IT equipment at the base of these studies, and it shows that a space for action has been provided to archaeologists that are almost unlimited. The question to the Council of State will then be: Is there a willingness to enter and set limits on what can be financed? Because it is clear that if the powers are known, a person can put in place what it should be as an instrument, as an aid, when it comes to putting these excavations into action. It is involved in destroying the legitimacy of cultural memory policy and is by no means particularly fortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e371	I must first say that I do not know any of the two individual matters that the representative addresses, so I cannot comment on them. In general, I, whether it's archaeological excavations or other kind of follow-up or investigation for cultural memory, am busy doing it on a professional basis. One should make professional demands for implementation, for what it is looking for, and manage it. But one must, of course, also have a good dialogue with those who are in debt, progress and economics, etc. I trust that it will be done in a good way by the Riksantik product.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e378	There will be three follow-up questions – first the representative Henning Skumsvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e381	Will the Council of State form the basis of the delegation of power conferred on the County of the County Conservatory in respect of the bonding, outsourcing and even the cessation of projects to detect fornunners? The Party considers that when, in the case of a general authority on behalf of the Community, a private owner is required by the State to carry out archaeological excavations, the State must also step in and cover the costs incurred by a private owner. We heard in the previous main question that it could be at some very high cost. Does the Council agree with the Progress Party that all expenditure incurred by individuals to clarify areas for ancient memories should and must be covered by the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e390	No, I don't have any immediate plans to make any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e395	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e398	I understand that the Council of State will not comment on individual matters, but I'm pretty sure that in less than a very long time he will be confronted with so many individual things in this area that he will come to the realization that he has to get to grips with the relationship between the authorities dealing with this, i.e. the Riksantikvar, and public or private developers. For here there are difficulties with regard to the legal foundation, but also with regard to the practical bonding. I am also quite certain that many of the cases that the Council of State will be confronted with relate to types of cultural memories that we have many of: catch pits, cooking pits and excavators – perhaps to mention the most common ones. The question is, could we pick out some of these areas and make them more accessible to the audience, make them visible in a better way – that is, lift them up instead of being documented as being there – and have a more liberal regime on the types of tombs in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e407	Firstly, I thought it was a constructive tone, and I say yes, I would like to have a dialogue with both the representative Thommess and others on the challenges here. I see clearly that there will always be a meeting between the archaeological desires and the requirements and the owner's interests in different types of cultural memories. I like to get better into this and have dialogue about it, and I like to look at the challenges with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e412	Line Henriette Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e415	Cultural memory policy is important, because it is important to take care of our history, and it is important to be able to live with our history. The goal Stortinget had in 2005 that we should not lose more than 0.5 pst in 2020. of our cultural memories, is an important but demanding goal. In order to do that, we need to make peace and build eleven buildings every week. But in order for us to be able to survive, we need to know what we have. There's a lot of good work going on around our municipalities, but only 280 of our municipalities have a cultural memory plan, and we know that it's often economics that stop designing such cultural memory plans. We've arranged for a load of carrots to the municipalities in terms of cultural memory plans. This won't cost more than $17 million. NOK if we go in with a prop. I've seen in the nation that the Council of State wants to bet on cultural memories. Is this a measure that the Council of State can at least assess until the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e424	I guess it won't surprise me so much when I say that we get the permits back in the budget. But I am also aware that, in the future, there will be a need to do work on local cultural memory plans. So I'm going to say that at least I think it's far from just the economy. I believe that local competence is important for strengthening cultural memory, and that it may be so important for years to come to build it locally, because it is where one will be close and where one will manage cultural memory. In fact, to do a good plan work, knowing and having knowledge of local conditions may be more important than economics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e429	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e433	My question is addressed to our municipal minister as Minister of Housing. I think it was an interesting clarification we got instead, that our housing minister considers it an excellent idea that the requirement for equity for first-time start-ups increases by 50 pst. We go a little further on the housing issue: there were many who expected a review of the state's constraints on municipal autonomy in terms of areas and plans in the long-awaited Land and Municipality Land and Municipality Land and Land. Unfortunately, the pessimists were right – there was not a single proposal to reduce or coordinate the many sectoral interests of the country, which override the land policy of municipalities every day. In fact, 22 state agencies have the right to object — even if the detailed plan only follows a previously adopted plan. The municipalities now receive approx. 90 pst. statements of objections, and they are actually followed up in more than half of the cases. From the builders it is reported that it is almost as difficult to get larger housing plans through in the municipalities because of these objections, as it is to get Balder back from Helheimen – where, as we know, all living beings had to agree. Then we also hear that the Central Party is supposed to be a driver against these sector interests, and then it's interesting to show that the Workers' Party has begun to think again here. A housing policy sample has just proposed to look a little further at rules limiting housing construction. My question to the Council of State Navarsete is: Will she come to the Stortinget with a proposal to remove a substantial part of these opposition homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e448	It is often produced as – even from the industry’s side – as if it is the public that is the major obstacle to housing development. It is also important to remember that the productivity of the construction industry has fallen by 20 pst. in the last 10 years. The industry must also take responsibility. Municipalities must assume their responsibilities in securing land that is more open to construction. Not least the land price has gone up a lot, which I have been told when I have been out in some construction sites. It's now an unimaginably large part of the final price, so we have to have the wholeness of what's going on in the construction market. In addition, we have a crowded market and a tax regime that stimulates investment in housing far beyond the primary dwelling, which, of course, means that many people with a good economy buy up in the housing market and push prices up. We have to bring that in. Nor have I rejoiced for – as it was almost made as – the changes from the Financial Supervisory Authority. But when we see the burden of debt on Norwegian households, I understand the Financial Supervisory Authority's concern when it is the highest in Europe. Fortunately, we have a good economy – but still. So to the specific question. I now put the last hand on a message about building policy and there I will address this issue. I can't say so much more about it today, but just say that I'm busy with – and the government is busy, whether it's in the Labour Party, in the Swedish Labour Party or in the Centre Party – that we have to have an effective management of construction applications, and that not least the municipalities should have good plans to make when an application is made, it should be quite easy to see if that application can go through easily, or if he has to go through a lot of rounds. It is very much a matter of how well you plan your work in each municipality, and we see that there is a great difference between municipalities in time for a user to process applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e457	If I had been interested in productivity development in the construction industry, I would not have asked that question to the Council of State. But she implies in her answer that the property price is also rising. However, it is precisely an effect that municipalities do not have the three-wayer of available building-ready plots that they need to have in reserve, in order to offer people with projects and the deadline for action to build dwellings in their municipality. I think the answer when it came to being concrete in terms of proposals for simplification and limitations of state special interests, was not very clear, but I can help a little on the way. The working party has been concrete at one point in its housing inquiry. It looks like the Workers' Party will go in for a five-year limitation rule for detailed plans to lapse. This has been promoted by the Right in the UK, so we already have a majority in the UK. So my question to the Council of State is, when will she propose that at least the five-year limitation rule lapse?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e464	It's a question that I've been raising a long time ago, and that we're discussing in the big news. The representative Tetzschner has to lubricate himself with patience a few weeks later, and it turns out that the question is being clarified in the message. I didn't think it was a good idea to give you the details of what we're talking about in a message, until we put it forward, but this is an area that we're going to come back to in the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e469	There will be two follow-up questions – first the representative Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e472	We have waited and waited and waited for the cancellation notice about the relationship between the state and the municipality, and when it finally arrived, it became a principle message. Now the State Council of Navarsete announces that she will present a new, big message about building policy. It's coming in a few weeks. I hope, then, that there will be a message that will propose concrete measures and not become a message of principle. It's not the principles we need to reflect on now; it's the access of the government's opposition authorities to inhibit housing. There are many things in housing policy that are costly and delaying. I hope that the Council of State will take concrete note of this. Will the Council of State become a clear Housing Council and bring housing and land policy together in one department?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e481	Governments work a lot with housing policy. I think the industry has noticed that it is coming on the agenda. It has not been high on the political agenda before. In the same way as these state councils are raising transport policy to the national agenda, I think I have now lifted housing policy into the political change of word. I'm very happy and proud to be able to do that, because it's an important area in people's lives. That is why I am also presenting a big message about building policy and later a big message about housing policy, because it is fundamental for most people. The coordination of responsibilities under the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Local Affairs is a recurring issue. What is important in this context is that we have a coordinated policy, and that what comes from the two departments is coordinated, so that people out there, the municipalities, feel that there is one instance from which it comes, and not many. I'm working on it all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e488	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e491	I record that the Council of State is indebted to private developers and municipalities because there are not enough housing. One indicates that a new message will be received. I totally agree with the previous speakers who think that there is no new message we need. We need action. What is at least a fact is that we have a lot of government agencies that are blocking housing today. Every day, democratic decisions taken by elected representatives are set aside for the additions, among others. at the County Council. We think this is a challenge. It's a problem that non-governmentals are trying to outsmart their peoples' decisions also in discretionary cases. My question to the Council of State is: does the Minister of State see that this weakens local democracy and prevents housing construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e500	In 2011, the construction of 27 700 dwellings was started, which is an increase of 31 pst. from 2010. In Oslo, there was almost a triple of residential buildings that were started, so we must not paint black and produce it as if it were not started building – because it is. There is a need for even more, and we are working to facilitate, together with the municipalities and all the authorities responsible for it, not least the private market, i.e. the construction market. So to the question that Hagesetter travels. For me, it's important that we see the entire municipal administration in context. People should experience when they come to the municipality, that they can get clear answers. That is why I work in the housing message that we should have a more flexible case handling on an application for housing to bring down the construction business period, to reduce the time of application management and to make it more flexible. We'll get back to that in a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e509	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e521	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval – they are deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. Question 3, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister of Knowledge, lapses because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e536	‘The Government now states that increased road construction needs to be financed by correspondingly less pensions or higher taxes later on. In this case, it assumes that better infrastructure does not strengthen the productivity and value creation of the economy. On the other hand, if it is decided to deploy infrastructure, expenditure will come in any case. The funding needs are the same, but the utility will usually be higher at earlier completions. Do the Councils of State agree that economic growth and material prosperity are strengthened by better infrastructure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e548	I think we can quickly agree that good infrastructure is important for a modern society. It contributes to good performance and facilitates increased productivity and value creation across the country. This is the background to the strong government's current investment, overfilling the previous national transport plan and bringing about a historic escalation of transport investment by 100 billion. until 2020. So it's always the way projects, whatever their profitability, have to be funded. The socio-economic profitability of a project does not necessarily mean that it will increase gross domestic product or generate higher revenue in public budgets. For example, increased leisure time as a result of reduced travel time, or benefits in the form of a better environment, will not result in increased revenue in public budgets. Nor will projects that increase productivity in the private sector themselves strengthen public budgets. In fact, increased productivity results in higher earnings and ownership income in the private sector and thus also higher tax revenues. At the same time, public expenditure on wages, pensions and other social benefits increases with the level of wages and salaries in the economy, and the rise in expenditure is roughly in line with the rise in income. Consequently, expenditure on infrastructure is not self-financing. In my view, the debate on how to ensure future growth will often create an artificial distinction between operation and investment, where investment in infrastructure is seen as growth-creating, while expenditure on, for example, is seen as growth-creating. education and research are produced as pure consumption. However, investment in labour is the most important investment we make. Within the budgetary framework available to us, the government has in recent years made a strong commitment, not only to road and rail, but also to kindergartens, school and research. In this way, we will facilitate continued good development in the Norwegian economy that benefits the entire population.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e561	The state is for most people. If the government spends the taxpayers' money and makes people get the most better money, I think most taxpayers would think it's good – even though the Minister of Finance here seems to be only concerned with the revenue side of the government budget. The Progress Party is concerned with the wealth of taxpayers. The government often says that it is using oil money and investing in, for example: Windmills through Statkraft are a fortune, because then you are left with a windmill that you can possibly sell on and get back some of the money. You can't drive and buy and sell nurses or teachers. Therefore, it is not an investment in the same way, although the job done by the nurse and teacher is an investment in health and the future of children. The point I raised in the question: one often says that if you build more roads now than the government wants, you spend future pensions. But if the government agrees that the roads should be built anyway, does that mean that if you wait ten years, you don't spend the pension money anyway? How does the government manage to get such an equation to relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e570	First of all, I and the government are concerned that people are going to be okay in Norway. There is a background for the different priorities that you are making in the State budget. So it will always be that there are different assessments, both within lots and not least between lots, of what's important. I will reserve myself against the statement that nurses and teachers do not contribute to increasing the productive power of society. To the greatest extent, they contribute to it. A good health service is important to keep the workforce healthy. Good teachers are important in training the workforce, so that we will have the best possible workforce in the future. Then it becomes seventh and last, as we've had many laps about, that when you're going to make priorities in the budget, there's a choice between investment in the way and other things. We have made a choice that means that we are strongly committed to transport, while we believe that the state as such does not need to borrow extra to make important investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e579	I fully agree with the latter, and therefore it seems completely meaningless that the E6 against the state from which the state council comes is toll-financed with money borrowed from abroad at an interest rate much higher than what Norway itself borrows from the oil fund to the rest of the world. I also fully agree with the description given by the Minister of Finance of nurses and teachers. I do not understand why it is attempted as an argument against the undersigned. But let me answer with the same coin, because the government gives money – has given money – to SAS, that is, the right and desire to own an airline that loses money, so big that there is a priority there without going through the state budget. But if you're going to bet on teachers and nurses, you have to give priority to everything else. The desire to own an airline is more important for today's government than the desire to have more nurses and teachers. Why is that the right priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e586	Now we come back to the question of SAS in the next question, which I have the pleasure of answering on behalf of the Minister of Industry, so we're waiting for it. What is important otherwise in the case of the E6 Colomoes and northwards — or rather southwards now — we were in the last Question Time. There it is that there was a local desire for a toll company. The size of the store dealt with it and approved the creation of a toll company. I also said in the previous Question Time that the funding method we have today, with tolls and state funding from the state budget, is a well-used and good way to finance infrastructure. But at the end of the seventh, this is about making important priorities in the state budget. For the government, we've made an important priority, that is, we don't want to go in for tax relief, but instead use that money for good and sensible investment in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e599	This question, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e602	In that case, the State Council shall be given the opportunity to answer the following questions concerning SAS: ‘SAS AB has recently submitted financial results for the first quarter of 2012 showing a pre-tax deficit of SEK 1,1 billion. This is a deterioration from the same period last year, when the company delivered a pre-tax deficit of SEK 558 million. krones. Are the Councils of State satisfied with the developments we see in SAS AB, and if not – what measures will the Council of State initiate with regard to the Norwegian State’s ownership of the company?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e611	As I said, I give this answer on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. As Stortinget is well known, SAS AB has experienced severe deficits over several years due to its high cost level in combination with strong competition in aviation. It has offered lower prices for the company's tickets and thus lower earnings. In 2012, SAS also faces significant challenges, including: as a result of continued strong competition, uncertainty in economic development and high fuel costs. In addition, the company faces some fundamental challenges. I mention a fixed and low-flexibility cost base, high unit costs, a difficult financial position, an older airliner and a challenging business model. The quarter-quarters, which was also covered by the questioner, showed a deficit of over 1 billion. Swedish krona. The company has put in place measures to improve the results, which according to the company's information will give 5 billion. Swedish krona in profit or loss effect during 2012 and 2013. In addition, the management of the company discloses that they consider further measures. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is following developments in the company very closely. At the same time, the government still believes that the challenges facing SAS are likely to be best met with an industrial partner on the owner’s side. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade therefore asked Stortinget in April last year for an authorisation to sell the State’s holding in the company. The majority gave such a mandate in June 2011 and the Ministry is continuously working on possible solutions in line with the sales authorisation, without it being possible to explore what this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e622	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the previous question, the Council of State answered a question from Ketil Solvik-Olsen about whether priority was given to the main areas of spending taxpayers' money. Then there is reason to point out that this government has used the taxpayers' money twice to go in with significant amounts in this company. Governments also point to strong competition — yes, thank you for that. And the Council of State also indicates that there are higher fuel costs. I don't think the fuel costs of SAS AB are higher than the fuel costs of the competing companies. I have the following questions for the Council of State, and I hope the Minister of Industry has given such a reason to answer, that the Minister of Finance can give me an answer to the following: With regard to Core SAS, which is the savings programme for SAS – it has changed its name later: Where is the savings programme now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e633	With regard to the issue of capital injections in business operations, as it is called, it is the case under the heading – it is a capital injection. Then it is demanding that the company has poor results, but I would also like to remind you that the capital injection that one then entered the SAS has one done with other owners. At the same time, I refer to the answer I gave, that the Ministry of Industry and Trade is working continuously with the authority that Stortinget has given, to find an industrial partner to SAS if possible. With regard to the cost reduction issue through SAS Core, the company has been working hard for several years to reduce the cost level, and in 2011 they announced that since 2009 total costs have been reduced by about 24 pst. through that programme, according to the information I have from the Ministry of Industry and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e642	If it's true, as the Council of State says, that you've reduced so many of the costs, it's all the more serious that the deficit just increases. When you received the capital injection from the government the last time, the starting point was that everything was so much better now – only you got this money, that's what it was going to do to get upstairs. You also had the opportunity to take convertible loans, just to improve the situation, but the arrow is pointing in a completely wrong direction. I noticed one thing the Council of State refers to. He said that the capital injection into SAS was a ‘under the line’ operation. Yes, it's accounting and budgetary, but then I want to ask the Council of State the following question: If this company can go bankrupt in an imaginary situation, is this money coming back, because it's «under the line»? Is this not also – in the same way as any other taxpayers’ money spent – money that works in the same way and is lost if the company is lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e649	I think it's wrong, both by signed state councils and other state councils, perhaps to wonder about the future of SAS and the possibilities that the company has. I won't. Otherwise, on a general basis, capital injections – whether private or state – can give rise to gains, and they can also give rise to losses. In this way, state equity does not differ from private equity. That's the general answer. Otherwise, I can just refer to the work that NHD is doing right now. At the same time, I would like to point out the answer I gave, that the NHD also believes that this company is facing very demanding challenges in the future, and that one of them, as I said, believes that one in SAS can best meet this with finding an industrial partner on the owner's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e667	This question lapses because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e674	I want to ask my question to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In the past, the Party has made proposals to remove the ban on level-sharing in order to facilitate the adaptation of training to the level of the students. In the evening post on April 13th, Trond Giske says that the government is not good at recognising the ones in school, which is supported by Mensa in May 3rd. The State Council of Halvorsen then insisted on running as a measure they wanted to implement in order to improve this. Does this mean that the Council of State now sees the benefits of level-sharing and thus supports a change in the training law in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e683	How to follow up highly skilled students in school is an important discussion. In connection with the Youth Level Communication we were surveyed that approximately. 17 pst. by young people, they feel that they are facing too little professional challenges. Adapted education means facilitating all pupils — those who are pursuing a trade or those who need to move faster. What students who have special interest and especially professional competence say more often is that they only get more of the same problems that the others get, and nothing more to break up with. So what's the most effective way to hit these students and get to a school that's developing for everyone? What we have from knowledge of this from international research and from Norwegian experience is that dividing by level, permanently over time, makes many students learn too little. That was the background to our departure from the course syllabus system in Norway in the 1970s, because it 'locked' too many students into too low syllabus, and it was not about students' abilities or interests, it was about parents' ambitions on their behalf. What we know helps is we can go faster than our classmates. That is why we have been concerned that it should still be possible to take courses from high school at a youth level. That's why we're now developing maths that can be taken online, because there's a lot of high school that's not close to high school. That's why we're expanding our trades. Then we can combine the values that lie in being in the community that a diverse class means, and giving better professional challenges. This is best done within the training law and the provisions we have today, because the training law is based on the assumption that the students in the training are not «common» to be distinguished by professional level, gender or ethnicity. The background for this is to ensure a training that is common and inclusive for all students, regardless of background and assumptions, and I want to maintain that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e694	First, I want to thank the Council of State for the answer. We in the Progress Party are extremely pleased that the government also now recognises the need for all students to have the right to adapt training, including those highly skilled students, who have been clearly ignored in the previous school policy that has been pursued. We're happy about that. The problem now is that the right to take a higher level course, which has been a law for a very long time, has not been used to a large extent enough. We see that there are considerable differences between counties as to how many students take higher education. Some counties have very many, some counties have none. We in the Progress Party don't think it's because some states don't have students who have the ability to take this, but that the system is too little known, and that the schools aren't good enough to organize it and to inform about it. So my question is simply: how does the Council of States see that it is possible to make this system better known and to ensure that more people are given this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e705	The representative of Hanekamhaug is quite right that there are too few municipalities using this. There are fewer than 1 000 students on a national basis who have this offer today, and about 1 000 students on a national basis. Half of them are in Oslo. It's too bad. Oslo too could have had a much greater potential here, because it might be easier in Oslo because there's a greater proximity between high school and high school. So I want to encourage everyone, no matter what political party you're from, to deal with this with their local politicians, because here it also depends on a local pressure. Then you should be aware that when we start the electoral process at the youth level from the fall on, the electoral hours can also be used just to go faster in the field. It will take more time – because it is one of the things that students and teachers have addressed as an obstacle to the use of the scheme. So then you have two more school hours in the week that can be used, if you're a student with special interests in e.g. math, or it could be language or other subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e712	One thing is that we should ensure that the professionally strong students are faced with challenges, but also ensure adapted training for everyone. The fact that the new GIV catches up with the weakest, but also allows the strongest to take the higher level, is very positive. The problem is you start with the New GIV at the end of the tenth step. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it's too late to enter there. We see that when it comes to ensuring adapted training, the argument for this is just level-sharing at the end of the tenth. The question will then be whether the State Council sees the need for this to be used much earlier — perhaps already implemented from the fifth stage of primary school, with the possibility of an increased level-sharing among pupils, just to ensure adapted training, which is argued for later in the education cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e719	It is fully possible within the provisions of the Training Act today, for example: bringing the students together in groups for shorter periods. The representative Hanekamhaug is quite right that the offer we make in the transition project – from Christmas to Christmas at the tenth stage – is something that many students could have benefited from much earlier, perhaps even from the fifth grade, at least throughout high school. My goal is to take with us the experience we now have with New GIV, which is largely about working more practical, varied and relevant in both billing and reading. We have to include that, so that there are methods that can already be used on the eighth step and the ninth step – and preferably before as well. But my impression is that the primary school may be a little better at varying — more than the childhood has been. Then my hope is that we can do it in the class that students usually attend, or maybe in smaller groups in shorter periods, within what is today's training law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e730	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In the Ambulance Department of the University Hospital of North Norway, there are still staff who have not completed their professional letters and who have taken a multidisciplinary examination after Reform 94. These are now demanding to take a new examination before they can go to the post-transitional examination from Reform 94 to the Master's programme, LK06. Reference is made to the fact that the subject has not changed significantly and that candidates therefore have the necessary prerequisites to qualify for a professional test. Is it possible to make an exception for this group, so that they can go up to a diploma, based on previous examinations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e742	At the time of the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, both the entry into force of the new curriculum and the transitional arrangements from previous curricula to the Knowledge Lift were regulated by the Regulation of the Training Act. The introduction of the ‘Knowledgelift’ in secondary education began in the 2006–2007 school year. In order to provide pupils, apprentices and practitioners with a good time to complete the vocational training started in Reform 94, extended deadlines were developed for this. The deadline for the post-reform examination of trade/spinning tests 94 expired on 31 December 2011, cf. Regulation of the Training Act § 24-7 third paragraph. The general rule is that the students, apprentices and practical candidates who will be required to take the examination of a trade or trade-union from 1 January of this year must do so after the promise of knowledge. However, the regulatory framework allows for derogations from the time limits, as set out in this Regulation. Section 23-1 of the Regulation. In order for such a derogation to be granted, there must be a ‘specific case’. I'm going to try to say something about what has been considered a special case, but will first of all state that a total exemption for the ambulance department at the University Hospital North Norway cannot be granted. There is a requirement for the «specific case» mentioned above to be individually assessed for each individual. It is the Directorate of Education which has been given the authority to grant a derogation. The Ministry of Knowledge is the Board of Appeal in such cases. I must therefore be careful to say how I assess the possibility of exemption for the staff of the ambulance department at the University Hospital Nord-Norway – I will, if necessary, consider complaints. In general, the practice is that the exemption provision is considered to be a narrow exception. The existence of such a specific reason as is required by the provision must be justified. Examples for specific reasons that may lead to a derogation are conditions such as maternity leave, sickness or other unforeseen events for which the applicant cannot be charged and which have led to the absence of a professional test before the deadline. Disease must be documented in the form of a medical declaration. The dispensation may also be considered for candidates who have passed a vocational or bachelor's test and have received a «failure». These are entitled to a new test according to §3-62. The Directorate of Education has also granted some exemptions from the requirements of the theoretical knowledge examination following the promise of knowledge. According to the second paragraph of Section 3-55 of the Regulation, candidates for practical experience must have passed a separate examination before they can pass a professional test. This shall be according to the applicable curriculum, i.e. the Knowledge Lift. This provision has also been exempted, even in the ‘specific case’, cf. Section 23-1 of the Regulation. The Directorate of Education has granted some dispensations in which the theory examination after reform 94 and after the promise of knowledge had not changed significantly, so that the candidates could be regarded as having demonstrated the competence of the theoretical knowledge examination after the promise to test. In those cases, the persons were given a post-knowledge examination, but with the thesis after reform 94.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e763	These are obviously unskilled adults who have decided to formalise the skills they have acquired by working in the ministry for a while. I know that the UN as an employer is very busy getting 100 pst. skilled workers in this field as well. It's clarified and said here that there are no significant differences between the old curriculum and the new one, so in this way it's a little incomprehensible that you shouldn't be able to go to the exam without going to the new exam. It is also the case that the exam is only arranged – after what I understand – in December, so that those who are now ready to take the exam must wait an entire year. So they cannot go up to a professional test until the beginning of January 2013. Do I understand that in that case it must be applied for individually?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e778	As I said in my answer, the exemptions given are given on an individual basis. I also went through what is a topic in the question from the representative of Aspaker, but on which I cannot go, because I cannot forge a possible appeal procedure, and that is the question of whether there are major changes in the theoretical part from Reform 94 to the Knowledge Lift. What I would recommend is that they apply for a waiver, and then we should use the law and regulations we have, as flexible as possible, so that adult people who have a desire to make a professional letter should be treated as reasonably as possible in relation to the legislation we have drafted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e787	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That's what I'm going to distribute back to UNN and the department that's brought this problem up with me. There's actually a lot of them. There is a large department of 10 to 15 people. And then we're going to hope you find a decent solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e797	The question is as follows: ‘Agriculture’s Research Office has submitted a report showing that during the last ten years cereal production has fallen on average 1 pst. This year. The recently adopted agricultural notification sets out a target to increase production by 1 pst. annual. Developments and objectives are moving in their own direction. The objectives appear unrealistic in the meeting with reality, a reality that the Council of State should have known. What measures does the Council intend to use to increase cereal production by 1 pst? instead of the 1 pst reduction. annual?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e804	The representative Fleet refers to a report submitted by the Agriculture Investigation Office, which, as I said, shows that grain production has fallen by an average of 1 pst in recent years. This year. The fleet links this with the production objective of the recently adopted agricultural and food notification and claims that the development and objectives are moving in their own direction. The government’s recent agricultural and food notification, adopted by the Stortinget, has an ambitious production objective. It shall be ensured that land-based food production can increase as demand for an increasing population in Norway increases. This means that grain production in Norway must also be increased in the future. Increased production can be achieved both by increasing the grain area and by increasing the area productivity, i.e.: higher yield on existing area. The areas may be increased by new cultivation and/or conversion of the area from other production to cereals. It will be easier to achieve increased cereal production through increased productivity on existing areas. The study carried out by Bioforsk suggests that in recent years the variety progress has not been realised in actually achieved crops. It is therefore important that new knowledge of fertilisation and cultivation techniques is used to achieve higher yields, but it is also important that variety development continues. In order to improve soil quality, it is necessary to invest in the soil in the form of ditching, liming and necessary crop rotation. Climate change in recent years with high rainfall during the growing season has created new challenges. This also shows the need for action to improve soil quality. So one has to get an agronomial lift that helps get even more competent and competent producers. Many of the most productive cereal areas are located in the central areas where the expansion pressure is high. Strong soil protection is therefore also a prerequisite for increasing food production based on Norwegian resources. The Government will use the tools of the Planning and Building Act to ensure the cultivation of land for future generations. It is possible to increase the production of cereals through new cultivation, but there are few reserves that are suitable for producing cereals. In order to increase cereal production, it is therefore particularly important to take care of the areas most suitable for the production of cereals. By increasing the areas of grain production, increasing productivity on existing areas, developing skills on agronomy and soil culture, continuing to invest in research and development, continuing to invest in variety development and preserving the most productive areas of a high level of soil protection, we are to reach the ambitions of agricultural and food reporting on increasing Norwegian grain production over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e817	I thank you for the answer, which consists of a number of good actions and ambitions, which I do not disagree with. What's serious is that this decrease of 1 pst. has accelerated in the last 10 years. I assume that it must mean that the Minister of Agriculture has known about the development when he wrote the agricultural message. In my opinion, there are no specific measures in the agricultural message that are different from those we have had over a long period of time, i.e. having a better agronomy and taking care of the soil. Now the rest of the area – if I don't remember correctly – is about the same as it was before, so that this goes pretty much on agronomy. I also think it is sought by the Minister of Agriculture to blame for the weather. But first of all, what did he know about this when he wrote the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e826	Obviously, we've seen developments over time. We have seen developments in the period we wrote the message, and we have seen that there had been a development in advance of the message. So this evolution has been known all along. Then it is that an agricultural and food report draws up the goals of development further. It is not a specific budget or an agricultural agreement that makes greater use of the concrete measures. Let me underline that we are spending considerable money on research and development under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is one of the major departments of research and development, and it is clear that we will now use research and development funds to improve the production of cereals. In addition, we have economic instruments to be discussed in the context of the agricultural agreement and budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e835	The Minister of Agriculture's response shows that the ambitions placed on production targets are very, very high and difficult to achieve. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture one of the elements of this, namely the strong commitment to organic production, which is also part of the agricultural notification. We know that organic production consumes more land, the learned are fighting something, but there's no doubt that more land is being used to get the same out. In addition, conversion is something that also significantly reduces the yield of cultivation, by laying the land for a period of time. How much does the Minister of Agriculture believe that organic farming reduces the yield of total cereal consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e842	First, I fully agree with the description given by Mr Fleeten, that there are very high ambitions and ambitious objectives in the communication on agriculture and food. It's done consciously, so we're going to have something to go after. I believe it is politically right that we should have the ambition to increase Norwegian production of cereals and other products, so that we maintain the degree of self-sufficiency at about the same level as today. So the question of organic production. In the Communication, there is an ‘ambitious ambition’ — to use that concept — about organic production. We've discussed this in this room before. I think it's possible to achieve the goal of organic production in the long term – I think it's difficult to achieve it by 2020, as I've also said in this room before. As for the impact that organic production has on the ability to achieve other objectives in Norwegian agriculture, I believe that within the framework we have, we have the opportunity to achieve both objectives over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e853	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘A small number of tractor and forestry roads are being built in Norway, so that a high-quality forest is not exploited. The same applies to the upgrading of existing road networks. The measures that could reverse this trend have not been passed on by the government. What will the Council of State contribute to motivating increased investment in forest roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e862	Forest roads are a key factor in maintaining activity and profitability in primary forest use. This is once again a prerequisite for national raw material supplies to contribute to the development of competitive forest and wood value chains. Forestry is also very clear that there is a great need for further development of the infrastructure in the forest. This applies both to new construction to provide access to productive wooded areas without road cover and, in particular, to the conversion and maintenance of existing roads, so that the roads meet the requirements of current transport equipment. Forest roads are also important in the context of preparedness. I believe that the development of the forest road network is an important part of forest policy. This government has therefore continued the base line of forest roads instruments and has implemented a significant increase in the subsidy framework, while improving the Forest Fund scheme. Subsidies to forest roads, ropeway and horse have increased from about 45 million. SEK in 2006 to 66 million. kr in 2012. From 2007 onwards, the tax-free share of forest funds paid increased from 60 pst. to 85 pst., and all measures that can be covered by forest funds provide tax advantages. All newly built and rebuilt car and tractor roads, including rolling areas, which are part of the permanent road network and which are approved in accordance with the regulations on the planning and approval of roads for agricultural purposes, may be covered by forest funds with tax advantages. Such expenditure may be charged directly. In 2008, afforestation appropriations were established over the agricultural agreement, where part of the funds are used for building competence on forest roads, including work on master plans. The scheme has been continued by 10 million. kr in the last few years. This is an important contribution to addressing the specific challenges of coastalforestry in terms of infrastructure and availability of forest resources. Although this government has invested more in forest roads, I agree with the representative of Bredvold that it is still a major challenge to ensure satisfactory road coverage and quality on the road network. In Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012 We have therefore also given this area a thorough review. I have noticed that the Business Committee in its attitude to the notification here supports the government. The Committee shall deliver its opinion, inter alia: that the further development of forest roads is a prerequisite for the achievement of the government’s objectives of active and profitable forestry, thereby strengthening the contribution of forests to the creation of value throughout the country and to the achievement of important energy, climate and environmental objectives. In conclusion, I would like to point out the important role that the government believes the forest should have in climate policy. This also requires further development of the infrastructure in the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e875	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State and the undersigned reasonably agree with the objective. But it's a reality - no. 1 – that the number of kilometres of forest roads, both new roads and upgraded old roads, and the number of kronor invested in them, have decreased from 2010 to 2011. That's what I'm getting into. At the same time, I also want to inform the Council of State – if he does not know – that there is a lot of mature forest that is not being taken out. For example, on Saturday 28 April, the nation stated: ‘In trombone layers, more than 25 per cent of the mature area today is not drifting without new roads.’ With more bets on forest roads we will get out more timber from the most mature forest. We want to care for the forest in a much better way. We'll get an environmental benefit. We'll have more opportunities to use the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e889	I think we very much agree on the need to increase efforts both in building new forest roads and in maintaining existing forest roads. In recent years, we have worked hard to increase the opportunities that you have through the grant system, through the framework conditions and through the Forest Fund scheme to facilitate this. Of course, building forest highways depends on the economy of the forest owner who operates, and the economy has been a little different in recent years. At the same time, I believe that with the policy framework laid down by the Forest Fund Scheme and through the increase in the grant scheme, there is a basis for increased efforts in this area. It's an ambition that I'll follow up on in the work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e896	I thank the Council once again for its answer. It's a reality - no. 2 – equipment used in the forest becomes larger and heavier. As a result, there is also a need for much upgrading of existing motorway networks in the forest. It's e.g. not uncommon for cars and hangers with timber weighing 40 tonnes. Similarly, the truck with a trailer that carries the forest machine into and out of the forest can weigh. It's clear this is about distances. As I said, there is a lot of mature forest ready to be cut, but roads are needed both to get the equipment in, get the equipment out and not least to get the propelling timber out again. This is also about other things: this is about forest culture, which is important, this is about, among other things. on cleaning, thinning, the possibility to take out, to operate with planting — i.e. forest culture in general. In these times, for example, it is happening. about putting out tickets. There's a lot of things like this that require us to bet on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e905	I think we fully agree with that: it needs to be more invested in it, and we are working very hard to facilitate further investment. We know that the ambitions for the possibility of exploiting the business potential depend on reducing the cost of transport. Here forest roads set an important premise. There are considerable differences between the traditional forest areas of the East and the more immature coastal areas, so we have to make a lot of effort in both areas, both building new and maintaining/upgrading. In the context of the current crisis in the three-processing industry, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have reduced a sample, and we are working on those issues in this context as well. We will come back to this in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e914	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. A little comment on the end of the previous one: Many are eagerly waiting for that report, but we will take it when revised. But the question is: «The purchase of Borregaard Forest by Staatskog was highly debated. State forest acquired through the purchase a property that places them in a leading position in Norwegian forestry. In the United Nations on 3 May and with reference to the Climate Action Communication, reference is made to the fact that State Forest is now downgrading the plant ambitions on the land of Borregaard Forest and applying the minimum legal requirements. The power of the example is strong. Will the Council of State close to the changing strategy of the State Forest, or will it take initiatives through the General Assembly to raise the level of ambition in the State Forest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e925	I am pleased to receive questions from this room from the representative of Gundersen – and from the representative of Bredvold in the previous question – who deals with forest. It is an important theme, and it is important that we discuss forest issues. I interpret it as a sign that the opposition is also concerned with active and sustainable forestry in Norway. Forest is a renewable resource that is a social responsibility to maintain for future generations. There is a significant potential for increased forest construction in Norway through closer planting and planting of forest on new areas. A rapidly established rejuvenation after peaks of satisfactory densities provides the best starting point for optimising forest production and climate impact. The new Climate Communication also states that the government will operate an active, sustainable forest management through measures that increase the carbon stock in the forest, while at the same time using forest resources for materials and energy. That means we're going to cut more, and we're going to drive more with active forest care. More and more dense planting is particularly important in this context. Such forest management will provide the best climate impact in a long-term perspective. I would also like to stress that this is a good business policy. In the summer of 2010, I asked the county councils to strengthen the follow-up to the municipal responsibility for the control and enforcement of the rejuvenation provisions of the forestry law and the sustainability regulation. New control procedures have likely contributed to a 15 pst increase in forest planting. in 2011. As a follow-up to the Climate Action Communication, the government will further assess the instruments needed to increase investments in forest production for the future. The representative of Gundersen's question about the plant ambitions of Statskog is based on the lookup in the Nation on 3 May. It is falsely claimed that Statskog relies on the minimum legal requirements. As I am informed, Statskog's policy is to plant at a level that corresponds to the recommendations of the sustainability regulation. Stateskog SF’s board of directors is responsible for the effective operation of the company, so that the capital deposits of the State in the purchase of the forest assets of Orkla are complied with. That being said, I assume that State Forest SF operates sustainable forestry. State forest itself discloses that the enterprise complies with environmental requirements laid down in laws, regulations and administrative provisions. In addition, State Forest SF follows the self-imposed provisions of the forestry industry in the Live Forest Standard for Sustainable Forestry. I don't need to assess the plant count of each plant field, but I'm sure that State Forest will make sound professional and economic assessments in its operations. Regardless of the claims made by the nation, the forestry activities of Statskog will remain a natural theme in the ownership dialogue with the enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e936	I thank you for the answer, which I see as constructive. I am aware – and it has been corrected by conversation with the Nations – that it should have been said to ‘estimate’ because there are always strategies that are being assessed in the State Forest. However, the point was also to focus a little on the fact that the state – through the purchase of Borregaard – has purchased a spearhead role in Norwegian forestry, and the climate report places the potential of forestry in a very important way, given that side as well. We have also seen in government budget documents that the Ministry of Finance thinks the same thing, that here the forest can have a significant role. As a result, there are many who are going to follow what State Forest does — especially when it is state ownership — too much of what the Council of State was about to do was imposed on private forest owners. I think it is a very positive signal that the Council of State will be active in the General Assembly when it comes to debating strategy choices in the State Forest for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e941	I am pleased with that comment from the representative of Gundersen. It is an important spearhead role Statskog has in developing forest policy and operating good forest management, good forestry. I am concerned that we should follow the laws and regulations that apply, and I am concerned that Statskog should be an active and competent forester. One of the points with the purchase of Borregaard Forest – and at the same time the arrondissement sale that is now being made over time – was to professionalise the operation of State Forest in all ways. It's important in the context of climate, and the plant count is, as I said, a matter we're following up and working on, and we're busy having a good dialogue with Statskog's board through the normal owner dialogue. We are committed to following the signals given here by the representative Gundersen, and I fully agree that is important if we are to achieve the spearhead role that we expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e946	That's good! Then I would also like to draw attention to a look that has been made in the nations after this look-up, such as the praise of the profitability of Statskog's purchase of Borregaard Forests, where one boasts profitability almost in the clouds. I have gone into the annual report to Statskog, and that gives total profitability on Statskog now at 3.4 pst. It also appears that there is a triple of the maximum volume in State Forest. Here are a lot of issues for an owner to follow up. There is no problem in forestry to realize a standing forest capital for a few years and have a little fun for a while, but with the circulation times we have in Norwegian forestry, the fun is over quite fast. Then the bill comes from the fact that you're still left with a high debt burden. I think that's the reality of Statskog, and I ask the Council of State to follow closely what the strategy choices the company is making here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e957	The Council of State should follow closely – I can promise it will happen! Of course, it is an important point for me to stress that the strategies put in place for the purchase of Borregaard Forest were in the lead, and follow the strategies that have also been discussed in the Stortinge in retrospect in dealing with this matter. As I said, I am concerned that Statskog should be commercial, active and good in its business. I'm very sure of what they're doing now. The statements that have been made in connection with the annual report, I will not comment – there will be a dialogue between myself and Statskog’s board of directors in the normal ownership dialogue. But I am, as I said, very concerned that we should be able to do the job that has been discussed and adopted through the Storting's treatment of this purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e964	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-09.ana.ud657e977	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that there are none of the remaining in the Chamber who wish to speak before the sitting is cancelled. - The meeting's been cancelled.
