ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e24	The representative Jenny Klinge applied for welfare leave from 12 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland, is hereby invited to meet during the period of leave from 19 March until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e45	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Geir-Ketil Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Geir-Ketil Hansen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e52	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Kenneth Svendsen, Jørund Rytman and myself on the removal of property taxes on working capital. I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Kenneth Svendsen, Jørund Rytman and myself on the removal of property taxes on assets that are not working capital. I am promoting representative proposals on behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and myself on the value added tax on barley.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e61	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e64	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of myself for a capital reform to boost innovation and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e69	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e72	I am delighted to promote a representative proposal on behalf of the representatives of Hanne Thürmer, Laila Davøy and myself to ensure that all forms of synthetic cannabinoids and synthetic opioids automatically fall under drug law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e78	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e92	At the request of the Special Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Party of Advances 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Party of Socialist Left 10 minutes, Party of the Center 10 minutes, Party of Christian People 15 minutes, Left 10 minutes and members of the Government 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e103	The terrorist actions of July 22 shake us all. Our good Prime Minister said this in this Chamber on 1 August: ‘The map was blown, the compass shot in the fillers, but the Norwegian people found it.’ [[...]] The reason why the Norwegian people found out is that we have a society of basic good values that meant that when it was darkest, we didn't choose hate and home, but heart layers and warmth. The shotguns that were fired off on the island told us that the axis of evil is not a place far away, but inside the human mind. What happened has happened before. It can happen again, unfortunately, but it's our job to prevent it from happening. Preparedness is important, but prevention and retention must never be underestimated. The Committee shall be set up. We have taken hold of the matters that are urgent, and taking important steps we do not think we need to wait to get started. We point in a direction for work with increased security and better preparedness. We gather early in the process of some key work themes: prevention of elective radicalisation and extremism, care for and follow-up of victims and relatives, police-defence interaction, emergency communications, the protection of exposed objects, the PST, police response time and helicopter preparedness. I want to thank all the other political parties at Stortinget for good cooperation, and I am impressed by both the government party and the opposition's willingness to find collective solutions for the country. The result is a new grip for a more secure Norway. The Storing has the power to give and repeal laws, to adopt budgets and to control the exercise of power. The Committee has not been working to identify what is really happening on 22 July. We've been conscious of delimiting our work towards the 22nd of July Commission. The Commission shall identify what was going on and may examine what a mine is needed in that context. The Committee would like to thank all those who contributed to the rescue and security work, both the police, the health services and the other emergency services, the defence and other public services, as well as the Church, the voluntary organisations and many individuals who contributed on their own initiative — some with a risk to their own lives. An example of this good work may be the Center for Crisis Psychology in Bergen. It is the Norwegian competence environment with the most experience in crisis and disaster management both nationally and internationally, based on day-to-day work on crises and trauma over 24 years. Work is a mixture of research, clinical practice against individuals in crisis and grief, and educational activities by providing guidance and other information. After the disaster, they've been working locally with others. to hire crisis teams, but also centrally through the work on Health Violence and not least worked for the Health Directorate. Many of the material used after July 22 is written by them, and they have actively worked directly with survivors, survivors and relatives. We need a comprehensive environment of expertise in crisis psychology and grief work more than anything. Although all municipalities have gradually created their own crisis teams, there is a major lack of competence locally. In some areas, we already know that as a society, we were not well enough forbidden by a terrorist attack. The Committee has therefore gathered on the following new key actions: to further develop and strengthen an overarching plan to prevent terrorist attacks in Norway, to ensure closer cooperation between police and defence and to strengthen helicopter preparedness and to carry out an external review of the PST and to look at the resource situation. The Committee has been consulted on 14 proposals for decisions for a safer Norway. I therefore propose that the 14 motions for resolutions be put to the vote. I would like briefly to do something for some of these: the Committee asks the government to present to the Storting a further developed and strengthened plan to prevent and manage possible terrorist attacks in Norway. All this indicates the need for this: we need better coordination, we need better supervision. The municipalities have offered victims after 22 July a permanent contact person to ensure close follow-up. That's what the committee thinks is a wise move. Those in need of help get caught better and faster, and problems are not allowed to develop. The Committee asks the government to review the experience gained from the permanent contact system for victims and relatives in the context of a crisis and to consider whether it should become a general scheme for municipalities. The Committee is pleased that, from 1 January 2012, the Ministry of Justice, known as the Ministry of Justice and Defence, has been given a clearer response role. The new role also requires extra resources. In order to improve preparedness, police and defence must cooperate more closely. To this end, the Committee calls on the government to review the aid guidelines in order to strengthen and further develop the interaction. We also ask that the government provide for measures to make police leaders aware that it is important to contact the defence quickly when the crisis is a fact. The Committee is aware that response time is a resource issue – it is not just about organisation. We therefore ask the government in the context of the performance reform to make an assessment of what police coverage is needed in order to achieve different demands for response time. The Committee has shown from July 22 that there is a potential for improvement in police alert procedures. The Committee therefore calls on the government to review today’s system of alerting the country’s police districts at national level and, in particular, to consider the introduction of a more modern alarm system to alert several key police leaders in addition to the police district centres. Transport aid is important in order to be in place quickly. Helicopters are an important part of this. In order to increase security, the Committee calls on the government to come up with a plan and to increase the level of commitment in relation to the revised national budget 2012. The Committee would like the military helicopter standby on Rygge to be transmitted. When shooting goes ahead, it will always be especially demanding for the police to make efforts. This is why the police need to have sufficient knowledge of how to deal with such situations, and that one exercises enough to enable police officers and women to handle them in a good way. Then training is decisive – for all police operational departments, not just the so-called UEH units. In order to ensure sufficient training and follow-up to deal with a situation where the ‘shooting’ instruction is ongoing, the government is asked to review the guidelines and to review the training and follow-up provision to be added to police operational departments. In addition to the 14 proposals for decisions, I would like to make some comments in the hidden taxes option: ‘The Committee stresses the importance of strengthening the role of the family and private communities in order to ensure that each member of society feels more security and solidarity in everyday life. Secure individuals and families in safe homes create vitality that helps to create a more solidarity society, where people take responsibility for themselves and others.’ And on the other hand, ‘Freedom and civil society create meeting places that build knowledge and trust between people with different backgrounds. Strong communities strengthen democracy and prevent radicalisation. The Committee considers that the events of 22 July make it more important than ever to strengthen volunteering and civil society [[...]] I look forward to this cross-political effort on family and volunteering! Working on the setting, I was reminded of Jon Lilletun's school policy credo. He said, "For me, school policy is all about creating human dignity!" The ball shall be trained – and the school shall form. Especially after 22 July, I thought a lot about it. Terror can only fight with actions from one to seven and last. Holdings are values. In the same way as factual knowledge, values and attitudes must also be learned. We have to have arenas for such learning. The sphere is still a common arena in which social, cultural and ethical learning must and must have its rightful place. Much positive has occurred in the last few years in Norwegian schools. At the same time, there is reason to demand the balance and soundness of the school's mission, not least the practical and the formational dimension. I'm glad that a joint committee gives a clear signal here as well. We still know the posthumous things after the shock and the horror that took us out of the summer and holiday stuff we had. We think in particular of those who are in debt, injured and indemnified. The world is not good. We have seen the evil reality. It challenges us to strengthen the fight against terrorism – of all kinds and from all sides. It reminds us that naivety is a blindtrack. It sharpens us when it comes to ensuring the best possible preparedness. I will say as our Prime Minister: ‘ even more democracy, even more openness, but never naivety. [[...]] We owe that to the victims." The last few months and weeks have been mostly about preparedness and the coming trial. It's natural. But we must never forget that this is all about values! That's what the Norwegian people documented from Saturday, July 23rd, and the next few days – by lighting the lights, by streaming to the churches, by creating seas of roses, by filling the streets with love, by refusing to meet the power of power. We must never forget this. That's this way we have to go, without letting us slide into the naivety. We will never win over the evil by creating and cultivating enemy images and building walls. We must and must bet on building bridges – between nations, between ethnic groups, between religions. Maybe there are also keys to how we can develop the quality of life in such a collective experience? Researchers will certainly be interested in this. But we, too, as politicians, should do that. In the middle of all the investigation about what could, should and should have been done, this must not break for us as a society. So let's make sure that this becomes more than a spontaneous reaction, but an experience of permanent change. To say it to the king: "As a nation, we shall take this time with us in our hearts, in our experience." This is the only way to build a safer Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e194	I fully support the report to the rapporteur and thank him and all the parties on the Stortinget for a very good cooperation on the vote, which shows that the Storting will meet the vicious acts of terror on July 22nd in a collective and dignified manner. It's not time for political games and what was it we said rhetoric, but time to go thoroughly and openly into the issues to show that we're taking each other seriously and taking responsibility together to make the improvements that need to be made. We owe it to those who were hit on July 22nd, their closest and an entire nation, who are going to be struggling with the terror shock for a long time to come. We have experienced that what was almost unimaginably terrible has happened in Norway. We have to do everything in our power to prevent and prevent such a thing from happening again, but also in order to be prepared to be able to deal with the worst if anything should happen in the future. The work we have now started will go in several phases. The first phase is the current examination of the position of the Special Committee on the submissions by the Councils of State. Then, in March, the PSTs and the Police Directorate’s own evaluations will be carried out. Then before the holiday we get a big message about preparedness and social security. The Commission's report of 22 July will be published in August. Then a big message is to be made about it. More legislative proposals have also been notified, including: on solo terrorism, and on implementing in Norwegian law the UN Convention on Nuclear Terrorism. Furthermore, it is announced that there will be a reinforced overall plan. It has been reduced and should be reduced to a sample such as: shall consider the principles of inadmissibility and specific reactions in the judicial system. Another selection will look at the interaction in crisis situations between civil protection, home security and police reserve. So we're going to get out far in 2013, and probably also in 2014, before the political follow-up of the lessons from July 22 starts to come into place. The more important is that we now do what's in the position today, namely to make some decisions about what we know enough about to start improving now, without going into the industry's 22nd of July when it comes to finding out what actually happened on July 22nd. It focuses on the fact that an overall committee – including the government parties – promotes a whole range of 14 proposals for decisions on improvements. However, there are also several more measures and tasks in the configuration, such as enlargement and government, that are agreed to be resolved in the future and that do not require separate decisions when the task is clearly declared by a unanimous increase in the adjustment. This is not least true of what the Committee says about the prevention of violent extremism and terrorism. We give a clear message to the whole of Norway Police Department that the overall resources of the police must be mobilised in order for prevention to really work. When we want to prevent increased recruitment to violent extremist groups, against which the PST warns in its threat assessment, it is the local preventive police around the country who need to get to know these environments, come into dialogue with them, use the local police council to agree on cooperation measures, carry out concerns talks, have exit programmes for those who want to leave the environment, etc. All of this is not PST that can or should do in the police districts – it must be part of the day-to-day tasks of the local police. In many places this is little perceived, and you just show that there is a PST contact in the district. It is important that this is snuffed out and that extensive training and exchange of experience on how to better prevent violent extremism are started locally, and that the action plan Common Security – joint responsibility with schools, municipalities, leisure clubs, churches, mosques, etc. It is very good that the Norwegian Church Council and the Islamic Council of Norway have set up a toolbox to counter religiously motivated threats and violence, and now the possibilities of doing so must be more offensively seized by the police and police forces. It is also a matter of prevention when the Committee addresses concerns that we have weaknesses in our legislation regarding the preparation of terrorist preparations by one perpetrator, or solo terrorist, who operates alone and deliberately avoids association with terrorist networks. We are also concerned about the law on staying in training camps for terrorists and membership of terrorist organisations. We are looking forward to the government drawing up a consultation note on PST's various legislative proposals, while at the same time respecting the necessary data protection considerations and getting the matter to Stortinget. This is also not part of the 14 proposals for decisions that the Committee is making today, because we are in agreement with the government on how to deal with this. However, what we have in the 14 proposals for decisions is a point where, when we are going to launch the external evaluation of the PST, we highlight prevention in this way that we are asking for particular attention to be paid to the availability of sufficient resources and competences in the PST to monitor different environments in a broad, preventive perspective. This applies, for example: the possibility to follow up on open sources online, to cooperate actively with the customs office, inter alia. on the Global Shield project, to train the police around the police districts, etc. I fully agree with what the chairman of the committee says about the need for an enhanced further developed overall plan for an improved aid file, about the need to look at the response time around the country, about improved national alert, etc. He also underlined the key role of helicopter preparedness in terms of response time and police/defence interaction and indicated that we would now introduce a permanent helicopter standby on Back in order to transport, among other things. Delta, the emergency team, the rapid presence where something had to happen. It's an important part of helicopter preparedness that we also get ‘continuing’, as the committee says, in the decision-making process in the case of an emergency centre in Oslo. This will be the hub of the preparedness for terrorism, for here, Delta Emergency Team will be stationed and trained with the bombing team, here, there shall be a platform for police helicopters and a platform for the large military helicopters from Back to get there quickly and load the Delta Force and bring it to possible sites in the future. There could then be a greater radius around the country because of where the response force can contribute, than what has been the case today when you have not had such a smooth and quick solution as this can be. The discussion on the emergency centre has been going on for five to six years, and it is essential that we now make a quick decision on such a question. I would just like to stress here that the Delta Emergency Team, as well as training to deal with terrorism, actively participates around the clock in the streets of Oslo as the sharpest part of the Oslo Police Department in dealing with and meeting heavy criminal environments. In order to ensure the preparedness for terrorism across the country, where the distances to the Back and Delta troops in Oslo may be too long, the Committee also supports a change in the guidelines for the use of rescue helicopters, so that they are required to give priority to providing police assistance in emergency situations where the armed police urgently and first have to enter in order to ensure the situation. This will make it possible for the special-interest call-out units around the police districts to get to all parts of the district quickly, if that terrible thing is going to happen there. It is important that these new guidelines between police and rescue helicopters around the country also be trained. As I said, I am behind all the case rapporteur has said about response time, in the case of national alarm etc. In addition, I would like to stress that in the setting we also mention the protection of exposed objects, where there are regulations and laws that we stress that now must be followed up. A deadline has been set during 2012 to classify and assess the threats to different constructions and installations. In addition to what I have addressed now, there will be more that will be discussed in the debate on other important issues such as the setting. This applies, inter alia, to: measures for victims and dependants. The size has decided to treat improvements in the victims’ compensation scheme quickly, i.e.: already 26 March. We're working on a position in the Judicial Committee, so that that system can be ready before the trial on July 22 starts on April 16. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, it is that many of the measures we are now considering here today will need to be seen in the context of resources and increased police coverage – and therefore budgets in the years to come. But we will come back to that when we come to the budgetary proceedings, after the Storting has today drawn up what needs to be done, and agreed on the lines we are going to work along the years to come with these crucial questions for the Storing and for the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e226	They did a fantastic job for all those who put their own lives at risk, when we as a nation were exposed to the worst terrorist attack since World War II. It's important to remember that this isn't really about preparedness, planning or systems, it's about people. We're all going to carry this with us, but for some the wounds will never grow. They've lost a mother, a father, a sister, a brother or a best friend. Others carry the physical and mental wounds of cruel experiences. It makes it more difficult to talk about politics, discuss what could have been better, and work for prevention and management to be even better, because the perspective is so small and insignificant in relation to the pain that many people know every day. Nevertheless, we have to take that discussion, and I will therefore start by giving credit to the way an overall political environment has followed up these questions. I also want to boast of the way Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and then Minister of Justice Knut Storberget handled the interests of the nation when the unmistakable happened. It was also important for Norway that overall political leadership, both in position and in opposition, stood together in the meeting with rescued citizens. When Stortinget set up a special committee to examine the statements made by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence, Stortinget showed that the follow-up was also taken seriously. I would like to thank the committee chairman and the case-rapporteur, Knut Arild Hareide, for a good piece of work that has contributed to bringing the Committee together in important areas. The starting point for the Committee's work has been to have sufficient basis to close security holes that we already know are there. A constructive environment developed within the Committee, which has resulted in important recordings from all parties becoming part of the set-up. In this context, I would like to pay particular attention to the positioning parties and the major fractional leader, Jan Bøhler, who has contributed very well to the constructive outcome. There is a great deal of agreement that there was a part that could have been done better when the disaster hit July 22nd. The Committee did not hunt for scapegoats but for system errors. I also think we agree that we were not well enough prepared, and several challenges emerged along the way. At the same time, I think we have to admit that we will never experience a disaster or a serious incident that in retrospect will appear as a hundred percent perfectly managed. We'll always have more to learn, because each case will be unique. There is, however, a part that we can do to be as prepared as possible, and the Committee agrees on 14 concrete aspects at present. There will be a new and much more thorough and comprehensive treatment when the 22nd July Commission has done its important job. When disaster strikes, there are several things that must happen at the same time. Then it is important that the emergency number works, so that people do not get a call from the police. It is important that the information provided to relatives is good and correct. It is necessary to know what kind of resources you have available, and it is essential that the leaders of the emergency and rescue operations make the right decisions. Normally, the police are supposed to deal with serious events in peacetime. That's still the way it has to be. At the same time, the defence has considerable resources that can be used in serious incidents to which the police's own resources do not extend. It has appeared to me that the threshold for the police to ask for assistance has been too high. It was already clear when the bomb went off in the government quarter, that the manning situation in the Oslo police was limited. Someone didn't know if there could be another bomb attack or not. Of course, life and health should always go first, and the police's available resources went to a great extent just to ensure life and health. On another side of the city, the defense started mobilising several resources shortly after the bomb had gone off — both to secure its own buildings and areas and to be ready if the police asked for assistance. The bombing groups were mobilized, sent out quickly, and the brigade police. However, it would take almost seven and a half hours before the police asked for enforcement assistance to guard and secure security-worthy objects, such as landfill, prime minister dwelling and other exposed buildings. The Committee has agreed to ask the government to raise awareness among police officers about the importance of requesting assistance from the Defence Forces in the event of major incidents. Sometimes it's better to ask for too much than too little. It requires, of course, that the police also know what the defense can do, and at what time. In general, it is important that the interaction between police and defence is further developed and strengthened when the government is now reviewing the so-called aid directive. In the event of major events, it is also important that information is exchanged quickly and correctly. If emergency calls are to be re-connected to other police districts, the police districts not directly affected must have information on the way in order to provide correct information to those calling and to provide important information to operational management. The Committee has agreed to ask the government to ensure this in a better way. I am also pleased that the committee asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a concrete assessment of the police response time. The Police Directorate has previously rejected the possibility of introducing such a mechanism, but it must be possible to make demands to the police when acute and serious incidents occur. We need to clarify what kind of expectations we as citizens can have for the police response time and efforts when distress is greatest. Such a response time must, of course, vary from police districts to police districts. Norway did not actually have a system to send a national alarm on 22 July 2011. It was correctly established a sort of routine for how this was to be done, but it did not work at all. It is worrying that one establishes such a warning system without testing or quality assurance. The importance of the Committee asking the government to assess new technologies in order to ensure wider and better alerting of national alarms. Information and the possibility of rapid reaction from neighbouring police districts can be of major importance in specific cases. The Committee has also asked for a review of the ‘shooting ongoing’ guidelines and for a review of training and follow-up services for police staff in operational departments. I registered that the Police Joint Association went out and criticized that proposal right after the suspension was published. I am very surprised at that criticism. It made me wonder what the motive could be. I had expected the Police Union to embrace a proposal aimed at securing police officials and women in an even better way. The fact that the Storting will make sure that each official or woman is offered a proper and sound offer to be safer in the worst-case situations was presented by Arne Johannessen as a problem. There may be reason to point out that the proposal does not involve any criticism of the first-to-be police officers. The Committee has no basis for claiming that they did something wrong, nor is it the Committee's job to find out. That's what the 22nd July Commission will come back to. In view of this current event, and based on the increasing frequency of shooting, it is important to make sure that both policies and the follow-up of service staff are good enough — primarily to ensure better service staff. I choose to believe that Arne Johannessen has misunderstood what this proposal is really about, and that he and the Police Union will support the interests of police officers and police service women in this matter as well. Although I am both satisfied and actually quite proud that the Committee has agreed on very many important issues, there are twelve minority proposals. The progress party is in on ten of these. I think it is important to highlight some of those proposals as well. An overall opposition is requested by the government to submit a final investment plan for civil protection in the submission of the revised national budget. This is because there is still a high investment need in civil defence in view of the Stortinge’s 2008 promise of 162 million. kr. We need an overview of when the remaining 100 million. kr will be in place. Civil defence also played an important role both on 22 July and not least in the following days. It's been more than ten years since we dealt with the Vulnerability Committee's setting in Stortinget. This matter, but also many other important changes in the last ten years, can make it relevant with a new vulnerability selection. Being prepared when crises occur, and knowing weaknesses that can be corrected in advance, is important. We can never guard against disasters, either in the form of terror or in the form of unusual weather phenomena, but we can prepare. It's a continuous process, and I find it a little strange that it's just the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party that will ask the government to consider setting up a new vulnerability committee. There is also one resource that we rarely hear about. We have a police reserve with well-qualified people that can be used as a supplement to the ordinary police whenever necessary. We have understood that it was considered to call the police reserve on 22 July, but it was not done. One might wonder when one will need the police reserve when one does not need to use it during a terrorist attack against the nation, and when it is clear that the police do not have sufficient resources to deal with the whole situation themselves. Perhaps this is also about some kind of invisible threshold that makes the police reserve not initially seen as a reinforcement resource in the way that is well foreseen. The Progress Party and the Left will ask the government to evaluate today's police reserve system and to ensure a follow-up to the police reserve to help them in major incidents. Towards the end of this article, I would like to say a little bit about a couple of the proposals that the Progress Party is dealing with alone, because systems have been called for that will allow you to get a full overview of where the emergency resources are. Today, the health sector can see all its ambulances on a digital map – with GPS transmitters in all ambulances. The same can be true of most police districts with their systems. Many of the country's fire and rescue services have similar systems, and we already know that non-governmental organisations such as the Rescue Company and the Red Cross have similar opportunities. But no one can see each other. As far as I understand, the various police departments do not even see each other! In this case, one in a serious incident in the Westfold police district where the nearest police resource is 25 to 30 minutes away cannot see the police car from Oslo police district returning after a prisoner transport and perhaps 5 minutes away. Nor can they see the location of the fire service life-saving vehicles. The Progress Party believes it is important to ensure a system that allows the emergency and rescue situations to see each other's resources in the event of major incidents. It is a technology that already exists, and I am absolutely sure that this will be the future. One can, by means of a large event, ensure a kind of'switch' that allows everyone to see each other. One doesn't have to see each other all the time, but if something big happens, one can connect over. Then one will be able to quickly arrive at the current sites, one will be able to quickly assess which resources are available, and one can see helicopters, police, ambulances, fire and rescue cars, snowmobiles from the Red Cross and the rescue boats concerned. The decision base is improving and one does not overlook the possibility of using the nearest resource. I don't know if it would have meant anything on July 22nd, but it could mean something about any other terrorist attack or a major accident. GPS technology is cheap, easy to use, and there are technologies that can connect this information in a simple and transparent way. I'm sure this is the future, and that in a relatively short time we're going to put this into system, but the Progress Party wants to start this work right now. Finally, I would like to underline the significance of this setting. It shows a great deal that despite major political disagreements is capable of finding solutions in the face of important challenges. It shows a staggering ability to find constructive solutions across position and opposition when really required. I am proud to have had the opportunity to participate in this important work, and although some fear that this committee would not deliver anything particularly new, today we can shame that fear. We have made an important joint contribution to a safer and safer Norway. I would also like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e298	The representative Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he refers to. The President can only regret that there are parts of the technique that work poorly right now. It doesn't just apply to the sound and the computer system, but it also seems to be the technique that takes the speaker up and down, so the representative is doing the best he can.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e303	I'm not that tall, so it goes. On 22 July, it may never be completed. The terrorist attack hit all the Northmen. It was the biggest attack on Norwegian soil since World War II and was a direct attack on democracy and on young people who wanted to take part in it and fight for it. All our thoughts go to those who were directly affected. But the thoughts, and not least the actions we have to do afterwards, are even more important now that most people have got it all the more distant and the world goes on. In all grief processes, it is too many difficult to deal with the silence that arises when everyone has been condoned and often withdraws after some time. In the media, of course, it's not quiet here, and we're going to spend many years investigating and thinking about how we can make Norway safer. But the concern that victims and relatives felt from all over Norway in the future is important that we, as human beings, also continue to give. In addition, we have to remember that there are many victims of violence and assault and other crimes that feel this extra strong, because it rips up something they have experienced, so that there are more than those directly affected on 22 July and the following days, who are affected by what happened. While we are now pointing a path further and pointing out some critical points, as many have mentioned, it is also important to praise ministerial staff who experienced July 22nd and who are now working under very difficult conditions to do a formidable job of serving government, big business and people and all those who did a job on the very cruel day and after. I think it is a strength for victims, relatives, the Norwegian people, for all those who were directly involved, and also for the Stortinget as our top political body, that all parties, as several have mentioned, are united on important points in this position. The result also shows that it was a point to set up such a special committee. It wasn't a yawn, it was an arena where all the parties in both the opposition and the position have contributed. Some sparks have been, but in sum, everyone, out of respect for what this is all about, has done a job that I hope has helped to strengthen confidence in the Stortinget by recognizing that we all have a common responsibility, and that we take that responsibility. I would like, on behalf of the Right, to thank the committee leader and the case rapporteur for a good job, and I also want to thank the major fraction leader, Jan Bøhler, for the openness and honesty of the work in the committee – in the meeting with all parties – of which there is great respect. It has made this result so good. On 22 July – and I stress it may have – made it clear that the Norwegian authorities are good at cooperating upwards and downwards in a hierarchy, but not necessarily cooperating equally well across the board. The assistance file shall be reviewed, but the proposal for a decision under VII is, if possible, even more important, because, as many have pointed out, every year there may have been mental or cultural barriers between police and defence which, operationally, impede optimum cooperation. If everything is planned for a long time in advance, it works well – not necessarily fully as well if something more unexpected happens. It is the threat picture in the future that the unexpected can happen. In addition, I would like to point out what the evening post points out today, which is incredibly important to get in place before the trial starts, that anyone who needs help gets it, because that trial is going to cost extremely much to those who have been directly affected. We must all, to all, to the rapporteurs and to the municipalities, influence in the way we can to ensure that they receive the assistance they need before the trial takes place. For the right, it has been important over several years for the Storting to get more information about the competence and resource situation of the PST and to assess the task structure more closely. Expectation clarifications related to the ability of PST to deliver security must be proportionate to the actual resource situation and the methods available. Of course, we can never have an open seminar on everything in terms of security and PST. However, the size as ad hoc and legislative authority needs more knowledge of the PST resource situation, the tasks that should be prioritised up and down, and the challenges that are considered to be the greatest for the performance of the tasks entrusted. An external review is promised. It is very much appreciated, but it is important to stress that the information needs of the Storting must be adequately met. The right assumes that there is a close dialogue with all the parties of the Storting on which form is chosen and on how to do so in order to meet this need. But, as the representative of Bøhler was involved, the PST cannot alone prevent terrorism. As part of the broad and comprehensive plan proposed by a unanimous committee, the proposals for decisions under I and II fall within the same context. To prevent terrorism, and not least self-radicalisation, which can contribute to single-man terrorism, there is an evaluation of the police councils and the SLT here. The effective prevention of all crime must take place early and take place primarily locally. That the municipalities are involved in that work is absolutely necessary, and I am therefore particularly pleased that these two proposals, which have been promoted in a slightly different way by the Right in the past, are now receiving unanimous support. We must aim to prevent and detect people who fall outside and who develop a hatred for the big society at the earliest possible time. That is why these proposals are important. The worst attack on Norwegian soil in modern times has led us to discuss more issues that have not been as high on the political agenda as they are now. The right is pleased to note the review of legislation and practices related to, for example: the role and reliability of experts. In the future, the right also wants us to look at how video recordings can create greater legal certainty and more real opportunities to ask control questions about expert statements in court. I refer to the minority proposals on this subject by the Right and the Advance Party and address that proposal. I will refrain from putting up a debate on police coverage, ICT, investment needs and visible near-police. I agree with the government parties that we can discuss in many, many other arenas, and so will we, I can promise. But I would say briefly that enough police coverage is not a very general topic, but a prerequisite for having something to prevent, something to respond to and something to build on. At least we look forward to an investigation of questions about response time and assessment of what we really have and do not have the police to respond to. As mentioned, I am pleased with the broad consensus that has been reached. This gives the Storting an opportunity to be both the co-player and at the same time the controller in terms of the government's work, which is necessary in the future. That's when the real job starts doing a lot of what changing political majority have not necessarily done enough. We all have responsibilities, and we have to take that responsibility. This is a beginning of it. In conclusion, therefore, I would warn against the fact that, when we have many of them, these debates are not merely saying that it is important to be strengthened and better prepared. Because it costs! We need to know what real capacities we have, what we need, and what it costs. Terrorist threats don't get any less. At the same time, climate challenges are also increasing. Warmer, wild weather, combined with open borders and increased terrorist threat, creates great challenges. We might have to stick our finger in the ground and think about what we have of real possibilities to do something about this. That debate will take place at a different time. But it's important that we all have it in mind when in a number of fields we might promise what to do in the future. In conclusion, the society we had politically, and in the people, after July 22, it was great, it was beautiful, and it was worthy. Both political Norway and the Nordics most faced an important test. Implementing the 14 proposals for decisions that we are going to vote for here today is the next test for us as political authorities, but also for each one. To create a safer society is not just about political decisions, it's about creating safe people in safe homes – people who feel belonging, people who care about each other, people who follow each other's lives, and people who are committed to the fact that the TV works. We are dependent on people who see their neighbors, who see when children are in danger, and who see that school students fall outside, because we can risk developing new terrorists, and then it's uninteresting whether there's a religiously-thought-out terrorism, or whether there's another kind of distrust of the big society. The important thing is that we create safe people in safe homes, so we're sure that we're doing everything we can to prevent something similar to what happened on July 22nd. I bring up the proposals on which the Right either stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e337	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e340	Let me first thank the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence at that time for their thorough, reflective and good speeches. The statements we are discussing today take on board the most serious terrorist attack on Norwegian soil after World War II. On July 22, 2011, will be remembered as a black day in the history of the nation: many people lost their lives, many were injured, and many lost their loved ones. At the same time, the event showed what qualities we as people, and our relief and emergency settings, possess. I want to praise the police, the health services, the defense and other emergency facilities and public servants, as well as the voluntary organisations and many individuals who contributed on their own initiative – some with a risk of their own lives. In addition, I would like to thank staff in the departments – especially in the Ministry of Justice, which was hit hard, and more employees lost their lives. Nevertheless, they, together with the Prime Minister, managed to do the leadership job that took them for a demanding time. After the terrorist attack was a fact, the nation turned out from its best side. Where one man showed hatred, the whole nation showed warmth, empathy, roughness and harmony. I would also like to thank the Church and the Islamic Council of Norway for their extraordinary generosity and warmth. In its unanimous comments, the Committee: ‘The Committee points out that after 22 July, the Norwegian Church and Islamic Council of Norway had jointly defined a set of characteristics of religious extremism and developed a toolbox for communities and mosques to use in identifying and countering religiously motivated threats, violence and other extremism. The Committee would stress the importance of religious leaders showing that terrorism and violence are ethically unacceptable. The Committee refers to the long-term work of the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-vision organisations on religious dialogue, which provides a special opportunity to contribute to the building of trust between religious communities and communities in Norway. These good relations are important for mind-creating work within the Church and other religious and life-vision organisations, as well as for the construction of friendship, solidarity and coherence with people belonging to other religious and life-view societies.» It is important to take seriously the prevention of extremism and violent radicalisation. On July 22nd, extremism and radicalisation can be disastrous if we cannot prevent or reveal it at an earlier stage. The best approach, of course, is a community where community is put before egoism, where it is focused on good growth, good kindergartens, a good, inclusive community school that is free of bullying, and which acts as the arena for social cohesion, mobilization and integration, regardless of the child's social background, language, religion, ethnicity and skin color. A good and inclusive growth environment is important to prevent marginalisation. I fully agree with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg that our response to this attack, and to extremism and violent radicalisation, is more democracy and more openness, but never naivety. It is therefore gratifying that a unanimous committee wants an external review of the PST and will strengthen its activities. This is where the government and the Storing are all in line. The Minister of Justice points out in his statement that extremism, violent radicalisation and terrorism are an international phenomenon. PST has also pointed out a number of times in its open threat assessments that some Nordics are travelling abroad to get inspiration and training to terror. That is why the Committee unanimously calls for priority to be given to combating terrorism, in cooperation with international actors. A unanimous remark in the Committee's opinion states: ‘The Committee refers to the Minister of Justice’s statement where he said: ‘As I see it, good forms of work and analysis are crucial. [[...]] The Committee further refers to the 2012 open threat assessment by PST, where it states: ‘the persons in the extreme Islamic networks are involved in activities of a more operational nature than before. Several of these people travel to conflict areas to gain training, combat experience and meet international contacts. Such stays may affect the individual’s desire and ability to plan acts of terrorism in this country.’ In addition, the Committee: ‘The Committee takes its concerns and the challenge of the Minister of Justice ‘to wide-ranging debate on the prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism’ in a ‘good and national and international cooperation with all relevant actors’, stressing the importance of future priority being given to the work related to supervision, information, contact with relevant actors and participation in national and international forums.’ When we say we're not going to be naive, that means that the government's power apparatus, the police and the PST are going to have to get the resources they need to do a good job. Of course, we're going to discuss whether the legal framework is sufficient. At the same time, I fully agree with the Minister of Justice at that time, who said in his statement that privacy, freedom and security for the citizens must be debated together, and one must always ask whether today's methods have been sufficiently exploited before introducing new provisions. SV is pleased that a unanimous committee asks the government to review the ‘shooting in progress’ directive. Helicopters are an important tool for prevention, but in particular for dealing with crime when it happens. It is natural that the police have a helicopter base that can be used to get the helicopter in action without undue delay. SV therefore agrees and asks the government to continue to find suitable land for a helicopter base in Oslo. Victims, survivors and dependants shall be cared for in a good and dignified manner. I'm glad that a unanimous big deal with the government has engaged in this. Here I would like to point out that several amendments to the system of compensation for victims have been proposed and are now under consideration in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let me end by thanking the Committee – all members from both the position and the opposition – for working constructively and forward-lookingly. The Committee showed its leadership in this respect. This wording made it clear that the Committee had agreed on the main measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e388	What we all want for each other, for our kids and for ourselves, is to live in a free and secure society. Our country is in very many ways both free and safe, fortunately. That's also after the two terrible terrorist attacks on July 22nd last year. But a lot has been changed anyway. It is about how we think about the phenomenon of terrorism, about preparedness and, not least, about community. The feeling of the national community, which manifested itself in the rosetoga, I think is something most of us will carry with them in their hearts further. A great amount of human beings sit to with trauma, sorrow and cause. It is the terrorist who is to blame for all this, we must hold on to it. But it turned out the fateful day that much we believed would work in our emergency systems, failed. Many of the things that failed did not follow the scale of the disaster, but could have had it in other types of terrorist acts and other types of serious events. That is why there is a great job to be done and to be done, to ensure that we have a much better preparedness in the future. A joint committee has proposed 14 action points to make our society safer. I'm glad these suggestions don't mean to close our society anymore. It is important for Norway to continue to be a country based on the fact that the vast majority of us are predominantly good people who are unable to carry out great deceptions. So we do not want to open up to massive surveillance of Norwegian citizens. At the same time, we need to ensure that the PST has real opportunities and resources to detect and clarify terrorist planning and acts. The Committee notes that the Minister of Justice has pointed out that one should assess and debate the aspects of privacy, freedom and security for citizens as a whole. The Ministry of Justice is working on a hearing note, possibly dealing with criminalising so-called so-called terrorism. The case spokespersons of Hareide did well for the proposals that the Committee is putting together. So I'm not going to name everyone, but I'm going to bring some out. The first two proposals deal with the police and cooperation between the lumbarians' offices and other local actors, such as child protection, schooling, health services and others, in order to best prevent crime. The Committee calls on the government to find better ways to strengthen local crime prevention efforts in order to strengthen societal preparedness. I don't think this can be underlined enough. We have to have systems that make us better handle serious actions when they happen, to ensure that the magnitude of disasters is as low as possible. Nevertheless, we must never forget that local police — who know people, as people know — can prevent young people from developing into lawbreakers and perpetrators. This prophylactic work is difficult, if not impossible, to measure the result of. But when we hear about the different examples of how local police think and act, we understand that this is about dedicated police officers and police service women who understand how important they are. Close these, we get fewer serious events to handle, and we save lives. Police are needed throughout the country to better interact with other local actors working with and following up on children and young people. We're going to have a big message about a performance reform in the police force during the year. The value of the local police must be an important aspect of this work. The interaction between the police and the defence is the subject of two other proposals from the Committee. It's important to have clear boundaries, but it's quite possible to have clear, clean borders while developing and improving the interaction between these two levels. Home security is a local actor that we also mention. I want to underline the value of it and hope that we will be a few to keep home security as a strong actor in civil protection in the future. The fact that the perpetrator was ethnically Norwegian made the reaction after the terrorist acts different from that of, for example. had been elective Islamists who stood back. Instead of the threat of immigration, it was the value of cultural deprivation that was shed light on. We were many who stood side by side independent of life's vision, culture and color of the skin to show disgust at the facts and to show a strong community of tolerance and democracy. It does not mean that we should ignore the danger of extremism before Islam also determines, but it made us more aware that extremism is dangerously independent of religious and political origins. The image of the priest and the imam who led an in a tomb together made me touched and reminded me that it is the sum of the individual's attitudes and actions that determine the direction our society is going in, and that tolerance is a particularly important foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e422	On 22 July, Norway was hit by the worst terrorist action ever in peacetime. I will first express compassion for all the relatives and affected by this act of terror. The central task of the State is to ensure the security of its citizens. We couldn't do that on July 22nd. We couldn't stop the action, and we couldn't stop the perpetrator along the way. It turned out that we were not well enough prepared. On July 22nd, many individuals did more than we could expect, yes, much more. But the systems turned out not to work well enough. There is a lot to go into, as the Special Committee has done, both in terms of response time, interaction between police and defence and how emergency situations worked. But I also think it is important on the part of the Committee to recognise all the individuals who made an effort on 22 July. This applies within the police, as it is in the emergency situation, to the passers-by of the terrorist action in Oslo. In particular, I will mention those who were at the Developed campsite, and who made a very special effort by picking youth from Utøya up from the Tyrifjord on July 22. Without their efforts, this disaster could become even greater. In the left we are pleased that we have raised this matter into the Storting, and that we are dealt with several pages of what happened on July 22, here in the hall. The Storting has overall system responsibility, and we believe it was absolutely necessary that Stortingen should be given a separate statement. The rapporteur was within the boundaries of this Committee and the 22nd of July Commission. It's an important delimitation. I share the rapporteur's presentation. I just want to add that the debate we have today, and the position we are discussing, has an important function in preparing the basis for the debate that will come after the 22nd of July Commission presents its report. The goal must be that Stortinget helps us learn from what went wrong. We're looking at why things went wrong, and not least how we can improve the systems in the years to come. Several before me have pointed out that it is a unanimous committee that agrees on comments and important proposals. I want to draw up some points that the Left believes are particularly important to follow up. The first thing I want to draw out is the mobilization itself – or the problems of mobilization – in the first few hours after the attack. The Committee agrees that the alert procedures within the police have an improvement potential, and I must agree with that. One thing is to discuss what capacities we have in the police, defence and emergency services, and whether we need more resources to improve them. But another question is why not all the capacities were used or mobilised when the terrorist action was a fact. The Committee’s opinion points out that there is good cooperation between the emergency team and the Special Command of the Defence Force. That is quite correct, but I think it is important that the 22nd of July Commission examine why the Special Command of the Defence Agency was not mobilised and used, despite the fact that it was prepared immediately after the terrorist action in Oslo. Another discussion that has been a lot up is the relationship to helicopter standby. It is important to have a good helicopter standby. It is also important, as the government is now in favour of, to further strengthen preparedness with several helicopters. But it doesn't help much with several helicopters if one you had, was not used. It is necessary to go in and see why this did not happen. So I'm going to pull out the fuses and the protection of exposed objects. On July 22nd was an attack by one person. There's reason to ask what would happen if we were hit by a larger, more organized terror carried out by several in different places at the same time. I think we've discovered – after July 22nd – that we're not well enough prepared for simultaneous attacks or attacks that have a large geographical spread. It took 7 hours and 26 minutes before there was a request from the police for object protection assistance. In the left we now hope that it will help with a further developed and reinforced overall plan that the Stortinget asks the government to present. It is possible that it would also make sense to keep HV-016, which had just many years of experience in emergency exercises. Very well known, they were able to prepare for operational efforts within an hour with 25-30 operators anywhere in Oslo. I believe that we also need to look into the experience of Practice Oslo in 2006, where many of the same weaknesses appeared, that the defence was mobilised too late in terms of security and watchkeeping. And then there's a question: Did we learn enough from this exercise in 2006? The left also believes it is necessary to look at the entire national alarm system, among other things. content: What does national mobilisation alert mean, is it a mobilisation of all available resources, or does it have a more limited function? Then you also have to consider: Why did it take 77 minutes before the bomb was blown up, until the national alarm was declared? It is also necessary to consider why Kripos had to make a request to the Oslo police in order to get a national alarm. There is also reason to go into: What happened when the national alarm was first given? What happened in the individual police districts? There has been a lot of discussion about the content of ‘shooting in progress’. I'm not going to go into this. It is necessarily the July 22 Commission that has to look at how this worked this day, but I think there is reason to conclude that in any case it is necessary to exercise, to practice more, also in the procedures around ‘shooting is ongoing’. Here there can be no doubt about what is the content, and what is the expectation of the police. The Committee has also spent a lot of time and work on the Police Security Service. The PST didn't catch up to the perpetrator in advance, which is a concern. The left wants more transparency about the PST resource situation, work tasks, priorities and challenges. The process after July 22 has shown that it may be difficult to get a response from the PST, which I think is unfortunate. After 22 July, we have read – albeit reluctantly – that the PST has made proposals for legislative changes concerning terrorist legislation and the use of the PST method. The left will go into this thoroughly with any legislative proposal from the government, but I will already warn against going too far in balancing methodology against fundamental freedoms and privacy. We are not aware that there are too strict privacy rules for PST's work, and the Left does not feel that the challenge up until now has been the legal framework, but that the PST has challenges with both capacity and priorities, is probably more right. At the hearing, Trine Skei Grande then head of the PST, Janne Kristiansen, asked if it was more important with extended homes or more people to do a good job in the PST. Kristiansen replied that the PST needs “both machines and people,” and this is probably right. Finally, I would like to point out that it is a demanding balance to ensure a safe, free society and at the same time to be prepared for the worst. Former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum said you have to think about the worst imaginable at least 5 minutes a week, but not all the time. If you do it all the time, you'll lose your mind. If you never do, you can't be as prepared as you should be in crisis situations. However, I believe that the most important thing we can do to improve the preparedness for terrorism in the future is to practice — practice ‘shooting’, practice mobilization and practice interaction and practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e461	I would like to thank the Special Committee for the thorough work carried out in the follow-up to the presentation by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence. I agree with the Committee's assessment that we need to draw lessons from the horrific events of July 22 to prevent new terrorist attacks and improve general preparedness and social security. Our main task now is to ensure good basic preparedness, so that appropriate authorities can take the necessary action when emergency situations arise. I note the rapporteur's emphasis on the importance of preventing something similar from happening again, and I am pleased with his observation that a broad, preventive effort is absolutely central to preventing hatred and violent extremism. Together, we must call for our democratic values. ‘These are people,’ said the representative Anundsen. I think he, and I, think a lot about the victims and the relatives. I think we're all thinking about the losses they've suffered, and the questions they're left with. The mandate of the Committee is known to identify the actions needed to increase social security in the short term – not to mention actual events on 22 July. The government has taken a number of measures and is also planning new ones for the future. We can therefore already see that not everything worked as it should be, and I see clear improvement points in parts of the preparedness in Norway. For example, we have a national police alarm system, which has shown significant weaknesses, as Stortinget also points out. The goal is to have a well-functioning system in place by 1 June, and I will ask the Directorate of Police to implement measures to get a new system in place as soon as possible. Helicopter readiness was down. It's done a lot, but it's still challenges before we can say that we have an acceptable solution. Victims and relatives should know that today's debate is an important part of the political process we need to pursue in strengthening preparedness and care for victims. It is positive that there is a cross-political consensus on most of the proposals. I think it's important that all good forces are involved and contribute to the work of creating more security. In his statement in the Stortinget on 10 November, the Minister of Justice identified areas for political debate at that time. The Committee has taken on board the Government's call and, in particular, focused on three main actions which it considers necessary to implement in order to strengthen preparedness. Firstly, further develop and strengthen an overall plan to prevent terrorist attacks in Norway. Secondly, ensure closer cooperation between police and defence and strengthen helicopter preparedness. Thirdly, carry out an external review of the resource situation in the PST. The government has stated that where we see improvement points, there was no need to wait to take action to improve preparedness. The Committee's proposals help to influence further work in a positive direction. I will now review how the work on these key points stands. In terms of planning, I agree with Stortinget that it is essential that we have a clear and good plan that regulates how we react to terrorist attacks. The plan in Norway is based on NATO’s plan. Our national planning, national preparedness system, consists of a civil and military part – Civil Protection System and Defence Security System. All departments and agencies draw up emergency plans based on the Civil Protection System. In addition, there are plans at all levels of government. An important plan in this regard is the Police Emergency Response System, which is the foundation of the ETA for the effective management of exceptional events and crises. This plan was revised just before 22 July last year. For the government, as for the Storting, it is absolutely essential that the overall plan is adapted to the threat picture and the challenges we face today. In practice, I believe that this means that the plan must be anchored in the threat assessment of the PST and the Directorate for Social Security and National Risk Assessment. That is why we have launched a review of the Civil Protection System. In this respect, I would particularly like to assure myself that the necessary measures are being developed in order to combat terrorism, as Mr Stortinget demands. In response to the Storting’s proposal for an overall and reinforced plan, the government will also assess whether there is a need to develop an overall instruction for the emergency plan. That is how we can ensure good cooperation and clear responsibilities and command lines between civil and military sides, and between the different levels of administration, when a crisis arises. Work is also under way in the field of enhanced civil-military cooperation. Defence resources must be able to be drawn on quickly and efficiently if the police ask for assistance. The Ministry of Defence assesses, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Defence — as requested by the Committee in its proposal No. VI – the need for any changes to the aid file, including: whether the aid-related procedures can be made even more effective. The formal framework for the defence's support for the police must be clear. We must be sure that our soldiers are not used arbitrarily against their own inhabitants. But within these frameworks, we need flexible mechanisms that facilitate active search for cooperation when crises occur, both by the Defence and the Police. There is also a need for a better mutual exchange of information between the police and the defence of available resources and for mutual competence in both departments on the capacity of the other. In the light of the Committee's position, in cooperation with the Minister of Defence, I would like to assess the further development of the liaison regime between the police and the defence. Another part of this work may be, as Stortinget asks in proposal No. VII, raising awareness among police officers of the current resources of the defence which it may be necessary to draw exchangers in the course of a crisis. This question will be followed up by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The government is presenting the social security message and the defence's long-term plan this spring. Both documents will focus on the defence of civil society in acute crisis situations. The size has provided important guidance for these documents through the Special Committee. We've strengthened helicopter preparedness. The defense restored military preparedness with two Bell helicopters on the Back in order to be able to provide police transport support more quickly. This agreement runs until 1 August of this year. I'm working with the Minister of Defense to secure a future helicopter standby, as Stortinget demands. We have also prepared the guidelines for the use of the Sea King rescue helicopters to ensure that the police receive transport support in time-critical situations. This involves a significant improvement in transport support and a reduction in police response time across the country. In addition, the government prioritises the establishment of a new police emergency centre in Oslo. I believe it is important for the response time that our most operational response forces are secured facilities that provide better resource use, faster call-out times and better training conditions. As regards the mandate and framework for an external review of the resource situation of the Police Security Service, this will be clarified in a short time. Work is planned to be completed and completed during the year. It is vital for our security that we have a service that is equipped to carry out its social mission in a good way. An external and unrelenting review will provide us with answers as to whether the resource situation and competences of the PST are satisfactory — especially in a preventive perspective, as the Stortinget demands. The size will be properly briefed on the work. I am also pleased that the Committee in proposal No. I and II stress the importance of prevention, that we must move in at an early stage and prevent extreme attitudes from being translated into violent acts. It is also the main objective of the Government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism. The plan has the name Common Security – joint responsibility. It's important to remember that the events of July 22 are not yet fully clear. The evaluations of the efforts of the relevant police districts, special agencies, the Police Directorate and the PST will be presented in a short time. They may need new measures. The 22nd July Commission shall present its report on 10 August. It will also provide room for wide-ranging debate and further action may be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e501	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e504	In the Defence, the operational management of the Defence Operational Headquarters, FOH, is the joint over-command of the Norwegian Defence Force and is responsible for directing and coordinating all national and international military operations. The police do not have a central national operational management apparatus, only 27 independent police districts with their respective independent police officers. Some will claim that the Police Directorate will be able to perform this function, but in that case — in part — it will be under the leadership of bureaucrats, perhaps without the necessary operational management experience. General Eisenhower said: «Plans are nothing; planning is everything». It was also the Council of State concerned with its article. Will the State Council consider a more coordinated operational management structure for the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e513	The current crisis, accident and other serious situations management system is based on the principles of equality, proximity and responsibility. In other words, those who are responsible for a daily situation will also have something extraordinary to do with it. It is important for us to take a thorough discussion on how to deal with crises – large and small. I would like to invite the Stortinget to a discussion about this in the forthcoming Social Security Communication. When we see how the various crises have been through 2011 – there have been floods, there has been hurricanes, and there has been terror – it is also important to take into account the value of heavy local knowledge if anything happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e520	This is precisely what the question is about on the Right, about local work to prevent terrorism. I then draw attention to the Committee's proposals for Decisions I and II on the evaluation of police and SLT cooperation. Can the Council of State estimate a reasonable time frame for when we can expect these evaluations to be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e527	We are now working on the plan to ensure the best possible follow-up to the proposals adopted here today. They will be a very central premise for the work we already have on, for example. police performance reform. It is natural to consider whether we can best follow it up through that message. Measures both before and after the Bech Gjørv Commission’s manufacture and subsequent treatment of it in the Storting may also be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e537	I would like to thank the Council of State for the contribution, which I feel is a good follow-up to what the Committee requests through the decisions. One of the proposals for decisions of the Committee is to ask the Government to submit to the Storting a further developed and strengthened plan to prevent and manage possible terrorist attacks in Norway. The council also said in its statement that not everything worked as it was supposed to. The Committee has been particularly concerned about coordination, coordination and, therefore, we have also been concerned about this overarching perspective. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State confirm that it will override the perspective of further work? And when does she see the possibility that this work comes to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e544	I see this as a very central challenge that we need to find ways to solve, if possible, in a better way than we do today – both through, as I mentioned in my post, a new instruction and also through how we practice and prepare to deal with different crisis situations. I believe everything from the threat picture and scenario thinking that is now being developed in DSB, to the PST threat image can help to ensure that we are better prepared through the daily work, as well as how we practice with the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e549	Defence and police must and must have completely different, clearly defined roles. In a small country like Norway, there is at the same time a common defence and police preparedness for terrorism. The Defence Security Command, together with the Security Force, trains and is designed to combat terrorism. I am pleased that the Council of State is going in and will look at how the aid directive works. It is important that it is used quickly when necessary, but it is also important that it has a political anchor, in order to use the Defence, even in these events, is serious. Will the Council also look at the political anchoring of the aid directive, that it does not seem to be delayed when there is a need for rapid coordination?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e556	I am sure that the Minister of Defence will come back to the aid directive and how it is, of course, enshrined in today's legislation and the Constitution. It is central that we have a secure framework for how the police can draw on assistance from the Defence Agency, and the various forms of assistance are therefore clearly linked to — for example. enforcement assistance may not be provided by the Defence without repressive political authorisation. If you have safe forms around how to draw on assistance, I think we can work together to develop more effective cooperation solutions. These include: This is why we also aim to look at, for example: theliaison scheme, which is important to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e565	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for having held a worthy debate in the Committee's work and so far in this debate. On 22 July, political Norway was hit hard. The government quarter was bombed, and political youth in summer camp was shot at. The experience we did as a nation strengthens the will to find solutions for the future together. In his statement on 10 November last year, the Minister of Justice outlined seven points which he felt should be the subject of political debate in the future. These areas have been followed up by the Committee. The seventh area is care and follow-up of victims and relatives. Many of us in this room are familiar with the great challenges of caring for victims and relatives. We have been comforted, we have been looking, and we have been in contact with the auxiliary equipment. But not least we have been fellow humans. The follow-up they get is something that concerns both the nation and us as individuals. The municipalities are responsible for the follow-up of those concerned. Through the Health Directorate, the municipalities concerned have received advice on how to deal with the follow-up. We cannot hide that the follow-up has been and is very different from the municipality to the municipality. There are 56 municipalities affected. In addition, many of the young people concerned move through work and study. So it's very challenging to give close follow-up to the individual. However, it is important that the municipalities extend far in order to follow up the people involved, especially in the time we now enter, when the trial begins. There's no phase for how we humans react to a traumatic event. Some people are struggling for the first few weeks or months after, and for some people it will take years before life gradually becomes normal – if that is the case. For others, the reactions may come later in life — perhaps by experiencing a mental trauma again. Municipalities have received and will receive assistance from regional resource centres for violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention. Municipalities shall provide the affected persons with a fixed contact and contribute through them to the capture of the individual’s needs. The Committee today supports a joint proposal that the government review the experience of the permanent contact system for victims and relatives in the context of a crisis. In addition, we ask the government to consider whether the scheme should be extended to become a general scheme for municipalities. The acquis is currently being revised — as part of the implementation of the Cooperation Reform. Determiners shall be required to contact patients known to have suffered a mental trauma. The determinations shall be followed up more closely. After July 22nd, the decision-makers were asked to contact the patients, and there is reason to believe that this also happened. It will automatically occur by laying down regulations even in the event of minor local or national crises in the future. The Committee also supports proposals calling on the government to take the necessary measures to improve the information provided to its relatives in the event of a crisis. Many, besides myself, used social media to get updates on what happened to our acquaintances. Many relatives, especially friends of youth on Ut Island, got all the information through social media. It's easy for the information here to get raw and unsensored. Many sat up all night waiting for the update from one of their best friends. We live in a society where the information quickly becomes available to everyone. This may also have negative consequences. When the bomb went off in the government quarter, there were 250 jobs in the departments affected. In addition, it was approx. 75 in the street around the buildings. On Ut Island, 564 young people attended a political workshop – or the most beautiful adventure of the summer, as we in the AUF call it. Eight were killed in the bombing in the government quarter, and 69 were killed on Utøya. Many were injured, and many were shot. I have met several of those who were hit, among others. Will Hansen from Longyearbyen. He was shot five times and lay in a coma for six days. Few had thought that he would celebrate his 18th birthday, but on 4 August last he celebrated it – against all odds. Wills are back today in Longyearbyen. He has recently been on Sunnaas for a few weeks to follow up and has among other things. an artificial glass eye has been inserted. The scars after the shots that went through his head became weaker for every month that goes, but Willar will always have visible damage after the shots that hit him on the Utøla. Not everyone who was hit will have visible scars, but they will always be marked by what happened. The eagles are there even if they are not visible. We as societies will carry the events with us into the future. For this reason, it has been important that the Storting should quickly get on the road and set up a committee which has resulted in 14 joint proposals to ensure and secure the preparedness, security and procedures for information.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e593	22 July was the day when Norway stopped and changed. It was the day when a small country showed strength, cohesion and care, when political dividing lines were agreed to protect one another and democracy, and when we saw how vulnerable an open society is. Not least, we saw in time after young people ended up in politics and democracy by choosing to engage in political organisations in large numbers. Nevertheless, July 22 gave us knowledge that we were not well enough prepared to attack from within, and that our systems were not dimensioned and sufficiently prepared to counteract and deal with such a situation. The government-appointed 22 July Commission will go into detail in its review of the emergency response systems and its proposals for improvements, but, as the Council of State has already stated, there is scope for drawing any conclusions. The Special Committee of the European Parliament has examined the presentation of the Councils and has revealed weaknesses in our preparedness system. It's important that these holes are quickly sealed to ensure us against possible future episodes. I will link some comments to the findings we have revealed around the police. A number of improvement points have been identified by the Committee through its presentations, consultations and other work. Police must be equipped to act quickly and handle multiple scenarios at the same time. Police must have equipment and personnel capable of dealing with extreme situations. Further investment by the police is required, and not least we need to ask whether the police are using existing resources well enough. The ICT situation needs to be resolved as soon as possible and the emergency network needs to be put in place. The organisation of the police must be reviewed. Is the police well organized? Police must have sufficient means of transport, including helicopter capacity and boats. Police officers need to be able to get into sharp situations quickly in order to gain control and withdraw perpetrators. There is reason to believe that the operational outsourcing must be able to take the decision on weapons and possible action. Police must quickly seek assistance from other agencies, such as the Defence Department, if the situation so warrants. The national alarm system must be tuned and operated according to the intentions. The security service of the police must be carried out through an external evaluation and review. The police security service must have sufficient resources to carry out its task properly. And not least: the quality of management is crucial for the quality of the state of the building and for the rapid and proper management of situations. Response time is crucial for the whole operation and handling of situations by the police and, in particular, the instructions on ‘shooting in progress’ must be trimmed and clarified to the officials to whom it applies. Overall, this shows, and the proposals that both the opposition and the committee together have promoted, that there are a number of points of improvement. I expect the government to come back with matters in the Storting how many of these points are affected, and that the Justice Committee and the Stortinget will be given ample opportunity to deal with these issues on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e610	For those of us who were not directly affected on July 22, it is still difficult to understand the extent of the suffering that victims, relatives and survivors go through. We just have to try to be fellow human beings as best we can, and as politicians, it is our responsibility to learn from July 22 and use them to improve the weaknesses of society's preparedness. I join the rose that the representative Elvesuen came with from all those who were working in the emergency and emergency seats on July 22nd and the following days, and not least all the other people who showed an extraordinary personal encounter in the face of a critical situation. I will also join the representative André Oktay Dahl who said that strengthening preparedness has a cost. The readiness doesn't get better because we're talking about strengthening it, it gets better because we're giving priority to doing something with it. Much has been said in time since July 22 about the need for helicopter standby and lifting capacity for the police emergency squad and for the Special Command of the Defence Force, FSK. I share many of the views that have been expressed. However, it is important that we remember the context and consequences of the decisions we take. In Afghanistan, Norwegian Aeromedical Detachment, NAD, is a crucial input for both Norwegian and Allied forces and for combative and civilian Afghans who are being harmed. However, when helicopters are sent to Afghanistan, there will necessarily be fewer helicopters in Norway. It also has an impact on capacity. In its proposal for a decision, the Committee has used the wording ‘the military helicopter standby on Raggge is continued’. So it's defined as administrative support. I think that's a wise approach. It is premature to conclude whether to make the helicopter standby on Rygge permanently. The distance from Rygge to both Rena and Oslo is quite significant. Other solutions may be to assess the lifting capacity of the FSK and the standby force co-located with the departments. The assistance file contains the procedures for requesting assistance from the police. There is no political disagreement that the defence resources, both personnel and material, could be used in peacetime. There must also be an identified civil need to do so. The defence has crews and materials that are well suited for civil use in many cases. In the opinion of the Right, it is essential that such use should have the necessary legitimacy and legality and, on a general basis, the Storting should assess the limits that should be set for the use of military resources and power in civil service tasks. In the ultimate sense, such missions may require the use of power towards civilians. The limits of the use of power by the Defence against Civilian must be assessed on a maritime basis by the Stortinget. For the Right, it is important that the framework of the Constitution § 99 second paragraph sets out the use of Defence in peacetime, is discussed in principle. We therefore have a proposal that the government should make proposals for legislative decisions setting the limits for the use of military power against civilians in peacetime. I would also like to stress the importance of completing the review of the aid directive as quickly as possible. But perhaps even more important than any change in wording is a change in the culture underlying the use of the aid guide. There is no reason why this could not be implemented independently of the 22nd of July Commission. We must expect that attacks that affect the country will come both suddenly and violently. In the initial stages, it is difficult and sometimes almost impossible to say with certainty who is behind, and what is the ultimate purpose. The bomb on the government quarter of July 22 could have been the start of a major attack on Norway from an enemy outside our borders. It is worth recalling that the Defence and the individual military chief have a maritime responsibility, a right and an obligation to react proactively. Based on animal-purchased experiences when Norway was under the attack of an outside enemy, the so - called poster came on the wall, kgl. Res. of 10 June 1949. In our time when the distinction between threats of origin at home and outside is virtually erased, where all enemies may think of using the asymmetry of terrorism to target civilians consciously and may seek to conceal their origin, it is important to stress that this responsibility still applies. Learning takes place through training. The sharpest units in both defence and police have close and good cooperation, and it is important that cooperation is also developed to cover all levels. Several have mentioned the government's announced review of the relationship between civil protection, the Home Office and the police reserve. For the Right, it is essential that the Home Guard retains an acute operational capacity and is dimensioned for military missions. Nevertheless, it is with interest that we look at all the proposals that can help to strengthen preparedness in a country that is large, has a challenging geography, and that does not have the capacity to build up parallel structures to deal with similar crisis situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e642	There is an incredibly sad background to the matter we are dealing with, and several of the articles have also reminded us again. I would like to start by thanking the Committee and its chairman for a good work, which has involved the Stortinget in a worthy way in the first formal examination of a whole case relating to the terrorist attacks on 22 July. Thank you for the demanding job that the committee has done, and for having done it the way it has done it. I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee for the contribution he made at the beginning of today's debate. The terrorist attacks challenged the entire Norwegian community in so many ways, but it was essentially an attack on our democracy. I think that both the vote and the debate today show the strength of our people's rule and the strength of our democracy. In Norway, there is tradition of standing together, a tradition of broad political settlements in the principal and major political issues, those that go beyond day-to-day policy. It is a good tradition that provides more predictability and security for the development of our country. I see it as a strength for our community that we also agree in this matter on the broad lines across the party-political divider lines on what are the most important measures to implement in the short term. It promises well for the further debate that will come after the 22nd of July Commission has put forward its position. The long-term measures should then be considered, and we should strive to reach cross-political agreement even when we get there. For the Central Party, it is important to ensure a good preparedness throughout the country, so that everyone should feel safe wherever they are. It lies in the nature of terror that it is unpredictable and can hit where we least expect it. Civil defence, the Home Office and the presence of the police throughout the country, together with a number of civilian actors, provide us with the best preparedness when the disaster is a fact. We need to look at the overall resources in the context and find effective ways to make use of them when acute situations arise. I share the Committee's commitment to enhanced civil-military cooperation, and we must take it with us when we are going to deal with the defence's long-term plan later in ours. Norway’s demanding topography and wide variation in nature and climate demand that we have a decentralised service with good local knowledge and that can quickly be in place. Closeness is also important in the follow-up of victims and survivors of terrorist attacks. The municipalities, in cooperation with the specialist health service, have been responsible for those who were most affected. The Committee points out that we can draw useful lessons from the experience of offering the affected a permanent contact person responsible for close follow-up, and asks the government to review the experience and assess whether this could be a general scheme for municipalities. Action against terrorism challenges us on the fundamental level in terms of our attitudes to transparency, legal certainty, privacy and freedom of expression. There can be no doubt that these values are fixed. We're not going to let terror threaten us to silence and deprive individuals of their freedom. We can never guarantee that terrorist attacks can't happen. Responsibility for implementing preventive measures against terrorism should be balanced against our common democratic values. I would like to highlight that part of the attitude that refers to the importance of the family, and where belonging to the group of friends, participation in voluntary work and in other social arenas are being promoted. We must keep faith in the basic good in the people around us and dare to care for each other. It is a responsibility for all of us to show humanity and to see our fellow human beings, including those who are struggling. By involving ourselves in each other, we can help prevent loneliness and isolation and, through it, contribute to preventing radicalisation and violent extremism. The centre party takes seriously both the measures that we are adopting today and those that will be taken in the long term. Nevertheless, we do not escape the fact that prevention through safe and robust families, a school that allows everyone to feel mastery, a working life that has room for everyone, and solid social communities that make as little as possible lonely and as much as possible to become valued participants in society, are what will provide us with the best protection in a long-term perspective. The Community protects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e663	I would like to thank the Committee for a good and important attitude. I would also like to commend the Committee on the fact that it has come up with such a coherent product as it has done. We are doing well to work together in as serious matters as this. In this way, we continue the strong relationship that developed after the tragic events of July 22nd, without, for that reason, shadowing the path to address demanding questions. In my view, the Committee's proposals for action will help to strengthen national preparedness and increase the security of the country's population. There is considerable work in this area in the defence sector. A number of measures have already been taken, while others will follow the long-term defence plan, which I will present to the Stortinget later in the spring. I am pleased to announce that the measures in the Committee's position coincide very well with the proposals we are planning to make in the long-term plan. I am also very pleased that the Committee refers to the division of responsibilities and tasks between the police and the defence in such a clear way. The primary task of the defence is to uphold Norway’s sovereignty and sovereign rights and defend the country against external attacks. It is the police who are responsible for preventing and combating acts of terrorism that are not to be regarded as an armed attack under international law. Before we met at the hearing in January, I had some concern that some people now seem to think that if you only managed to summon enough military forces in a civil crisis, our soldiers could spontaneously enter as police officers. So it's not like that. Nor do I believe that the Norwegian people really want to militarize the internal security of Norway. The two task sets require quite different skills and training forms. The basic division of responsibilities is established after 22 July and is both fundamentally important and operationally correct. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee confirms this important principleal demarcation. That being said, it follows from the primary functions of the Defence Department that the Defence has crews, equipment and competences that can be of vital importance for civil authorities as well. As the Committee points out, it is therefore essential that the defence should be able to make units and resources available to civil society where necessary and appropriate. And I would like to stress that we have very good traditions for this in Norway. Defence will always be prepared, within the framework of the assistance instructions, to assist the police with available and relevant capabilities. As I pointed out in the consultation in Stortinget on 18 January, Norwegian citizens will have security – both by law and in practice – so that military forces are not arbitrarily deployed against their own citizens. Assistance from the defence may take many different forms and it is important to be aware of the fundamental differences. Most people do not want to have a fundamental problem with the defense assisting in cleaning up floods and storms or clearing explosives, that is, what we call operational assistance. The same applies to administrative assistance, for example: transporting policemen to a disembarkation site with military helicopters. The release of military forces for enforcement assistance, on the other hand, is a greater responsibility, all the time such assistance will lead to a greater chance of military power being used against the civilian population. In certain situations, doing so may be both necessary and entirely correct, but it must nevertheless be clear within the current legislation. Therefore, all requests for such enforcement assistance shall come from civil authority and shall be decided by the Minister of Defence. We need to be sure that the deployment and use of military personnel does no more harm than good. I am very pleased to say that in Norway we have a defense and a defense chief who has himself gone into the brink of recalling these important principles, instead of trying to capitalize on people's sense of insecurity, in order to secure new tasks, powers and resources. I remind you that these are patterns we have seen in a number of other countries that have experienced serious terrorist attacks. I can assure the Storting that I will cooperate with the Minister of Justice to follow up all of the Committee's recommendations. This concerns the further development of plans to prevent and manage possible terrorist attacks in view of the interaction between police and defence. In the forthcoming long-term plan, the Government will place great emphasis on how existing capacities can be better structured and used for such purposes within the applicable lines of responsibility. Helicopter transport aid may be a critical civil crisis management resource. The defence helicopter standby at Rygge, which can provide police transport support, will be continued beyond 1 August 2012, as the Committee has also requested. This will be extended as soon as possible to enforcement assistance. The defence's other helicopter resources could also be used to support civil authorities in emergency situations. Furthermore, we are working on measures that will enhance the quality and accessibility of Home Affairs in order to meet their military missions. At the same time, this will help to provide even more effective assistance to civil authorities in the field of Home Affairs. This applies not least to the ability to hedge important objects. The protection of homes shall, through its regional anchoring and local knowledge, further develop the capabilities of both military operations and military-civil cooperation. Gardens continuously maintain and secure royal residences and therefore have important capacity and competence in the capital area. Parts of the force, as they did in the terrorist attacks on 22 July, may be used to assist the police promptly with security missions within the framework of the assistance instructions. The garden will be more trained and prepared for this. The ongoing review of the principles of police and defence object protection with security forces will result in a proposal for a cross-sectoral instruction. This instruction will clarify roles and responsibilities. It will also provide leadership for coordination and cooperation between police and defence in this area. The Working Party has recently completed its proposal for such instructions and will now be anchored in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. The special command of the defence with the necessary support elements has a special mission to be prepared to assist in the fight against terror in oil installations and ships at sea, and will also be able to assist the police on land. The department is also being trained in what we can call police principles for the use of power through its very thorough training. The capacity of the special forces for land and sea-based counter-terrorism is assessed in a strengthened manner. The assessment includes both assistance to the police and the self-responsiveness of the defence by estimates found to be an armed attack on Norway. In this context, the role of the Marine Hunters' Command is also carefully assessed. I would also like to stress that the Swedish Defence Intelligence Service, which has for a long time assisted the PST in the work against e.g. Islamist terrorism has now also been mandated to follow right-wing extremes, racist and xenophobic movements in Europe, and whether they can represent a cross-border threat of terrorism in themselves. The defence resources must be able to be deployed quickly and efficiently if assistance is requested. Early warning of the possible need for such assistance is essential to start the necessary preparations and to reduce the response time. In any case, intervention by the units of the defence is not triggered until requested by the responsible police authority. The ongoing review of the aid instructions focuses precisely on how procedures can be made more effective and assure us that the procedures themselves do not lead to time loss. The review focuses on, for example: on improved interaction between the defence and the police. New provisions on exercises from ministerial level and downwards, early warning and preparation provisions, highlighting clarification of urgent procedures, as well as bundling and thus simplifying forms of assistance shall contribute to this. The defence already has extensive cooperation with civil authorities and, in practice, provides almost daily assistance. The defence's assistance role is regularly exercised, including: on the basis of established cooperation agreements at different levels. Established mutual liaison arrangements strengthen dialogue between the institutions. I, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, would like to add to a strengthened, mutual knowledge of the potential needs of civil institutions and the capabilities of the Defence through courses, exercises and training. I will, of course, support the initiatives taken by the Minister of Justice in relation to civil protection plans. In addition, the forthcoming revision of the Defence Security System will pay particular attention to civil-military interaction. The audit shall be based on the experience gained from the terrorist acts of 22 July and recent national and allied exercises. I notice that the Committee stresses the following: ‘in an initial phase following an incident — terrorist attack, attack by a foreign country or attack of unknown origin — it is important that military departments and commanding officers mobilise until the background of the incident has been clarified.’ As far as terrorism preparedness is concerned, I would like to make it clear that the defence only has an independent responsibility to deal with terrorist attacks that can be identified as an armed attack on Norway. In all other situations, the defence will be in an aid role. In an initial phase, in which the situation is unclear, the defence will and shall be prepared according to the current emergency plan, including inter alia: call in and set up military units. It also involves the clarification of capacities that may be relevant in an aid situation, as we saw on 22 July. But these capacities should not be put into action until it is clear who has the primary responsibility to deal with the crisis. That's how we'll be best able to deal with all kinds of crises. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for the thorough work it has done, the high degree of agreement, and look forward to continuing to implement the proposals put forward here on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e728	In a national anti-terrorism concept, the defence has to contribute more than the FSK as a possible strength of effort. Terrorism can take place anywhere in the country, and also several places at the same time. Our country is long-distance and partly scattered. For example, weather conditions may make a rapid transfer of FSK to relevant operating sites impossible. In the context of anti-terrorism, police must have rapid access to the support of the Defence. We are in complete agreement on that. In this context, a well-developed HV meeting such operational requirements is an important piece in the future. Many have also affected the role of HV-16 in the future. I am also sure that the Council of State agrees with me on this, but why is HV not strengthened? We're looking over the whole country that HV is rather being built up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e735	I want to start by confirming that I fully agree with the challenge, that we need to be able to support the police throughout the country as quickly as possible and with the resources available. For this reason, it is also the case that, in principle, the entire defence is available for the type of support when this is done within the framework of the aid instructions. Now I'm coming back soon with a long-term plan for the defense, but I think there's been some attention to the fact that we're actually on the verge of further developing and strengthening Home Protection rather than building it down. One of the reasons for that is just the experience we had last year, both in terms of natural disasters and in view of July 22. The primary function of HV is to be a military resource, but it has important capacities that can be used in a civil context. Therefore, Home Affairs will be an important part of the response to the challenges posed here. I would also like to remind you that the response forces in HV-02, in Oslo, were available far, far within the current response times and could have been deployed at a much earlier time, if they had been requested to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e744	An overall committee is behind a desire to review the assistance file. In addition, the Right has also promoted a proposal to legislate on the limits of the use of defence resources in peacetime. Our starting point for – in addition to having an instruction – having a law is a desire to elaborate and clarify the Constitution § 99 and in this way create predictability and make it easier to plan for both police and defence in a preparedness context. It is, of course, based on the same starting point that the Minister of Defence stresses, that no one wants a militarisation of internal security. But I still want an answer from the Minister of Defence on how he assesses how desirable it is to regulate the law as well as to have an aid instruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e751	I agree with the intention of the question, in the sense that it is important to be very clear on which limits apply. I believe that the legal regulation is in the Constitution § 99, that we have a good concept, namely that the entire defence, without any limitation, can be deployed, but on condition that it is requested by civil authority, and that it is approved by the Minister of Defence – that is, that there is a civil control over when the defence is used, for example. in enforcement assistance. I don't think the problem is lack of law. I think the problem may be confusion in the content, awareness, knowledge and understanding of the aid directive. But if it is that work should trigger a need for further regulation of the law, I can see no problem with it. But I'm not sure if you then attack the problem at the right end, so that's what we get back to in the further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e759	I am very pleased with the words of the Council of State about the way in which the work of the committee will be followed up. I also agree very much with what the Council of State says just about the division of responsibilities and tasks between the police and the defence. The Committee also points to a very good example of the good cooperation we have between police and defence, when we point to the cooperation between the FSK and the preparedness team. Norway has two special forces, both the FSK and the Marine Hunter Command. The Marine Hunter Command has a main base in Bergen, but he also has base in Ramsund. The Committee also asks the government to consider what strategic resource the Marine Hunters' Command may be in a national crisis management process. We know that the Marine Jeger command has a different task than the FSK. The JRC is closer to the preparedness chain in the approach. My question is, how does the Council of State evaluate this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e766	Once again, I believe that the Committee and its chairman, the representative, Mr Hareide, point out an important issue: can the rest of the Special Forces of the Defense also be used in a way that is similar to the way the Army's Hunter Command is used, that is, what we call the FSK, in terms of support for the police? I believe that the answer to that after everything to judge is yes. We're going to look at how it can be used, just because the Marine Hunters' Command initially has a slightly different mission, a slightly different training and a slightly different set of equipment. But I believe in principle that the answer to that is yes, and we come back with suggestions on that when we come up with the long-term plan. There are also other parts of the Defence Units – I mentioned the Garden – that it would be natural to give additional training, and also focus on the role they should have if the police ask. Once again, I want to point out that there is no fundamental limitation on getting support from the Defense, but it is about having the right capabilities, so that you support in the right way and not in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e775	The defence, as many have pointed out, has a self-reliance to be prepared in the event of serious incidents. It has also been pointed out that political agreement is required to ask for assistance in order to make use of the capabilities of the defence. What's interesting about July 22 is, of course, what political assessments were made in relation to asking for such assistance from the Defence Department, that is, from the Special Units of the Defence Department. The Council of State may choose whether to respond. In practice Oslo 2006 there was also criticism that assistance from the Defence Agency was too late. Then I wonder what has been done from 2006 to today. Has the police/defence interaction been reviewed? Have improvements been made so that assistance from the Defence, to the security and security in particular, can take place more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e784	I believe that there was a number of answers to the question that Elvesuen is now asking about, in what I just said about what is already underway, and what is coming, both in the social security message and in the long-term plan of defence – a tighter collection, clarification of roles, preparations, exercises. I think it's wrong for us now to go into the 22nd July Commission's work on who did what was right and possibly wrong on 22 July. But it's well known, and it was clearly promoted in the hearing, that a number of the defense's capabilities spontaneously got through immediately, and very many were ready. There were also rapid clarifications that any requests for assistance would be answered positively and immediately. I can't see that there were any political constraints anywhere in that process. Then others will decide whether the police should have asked at an earlier time, or whether they felt that they had such an overview of the situation that it was not necessary. It is the responsibility of the Commission on 22 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e791	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e794	I want to start by using the word «unreal», because it's only gradually that it's happened to us all that 77 people lost their lives in what I would call a political attack – because that's what it was. Of course, there is a special extra dimension for us in the Workers' Party when the perpetrator says it was us he directed the attack against. He attacked our weakest flank, our youth, in our own place – on the Utøla. It is this which is the somewhat unreal and, of course, tragic backcloth for this whole treatment here in the Storting today. I don't think any of us, no matter who we represent, forget this. The debate is marked by this. So I would say – like the others of us have said, but I would also say – that it is a victory for democracy and for the strength of the Storting that we have such a unified position and such a concerted debate on these issues. That has also been said by others, but I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee for the good work he has done. There has been an important premise for the result that Stortinget is dealing with today. So it's also like that, and it belongs to this in a reasonable way, I would say, not everything went as it might have gone on July 22nd – almost to say – of course. It's related to the fact that it's very difficult to imagine that one should be prepared for such an event. In particular, in a society like the Norwegian, where several generations have lived in everyday security for so many years that it is difficult to understand that this actually affects us. That's why it's important to say that I think the sum of it all is that very much was handled well, despite this. I don't use time now to quote what the committee says about it, I refer to it. But many institutions and many individuals did this in a good way. There is no one here who expresses anything else, but it is important to underline this main picture, which the Committee also makes clear in its comments. Of course, this also applies to the volunteers, all those who threw themselves in the boats at the Development, and, as many have already said, saved many people. That made the tragedy less. There's nothing we can decide here that people should do, but like they do as the result of a culture in Norwegian society, which is that we should help each other when we need it. They shall be famed for it in every way. I also want to say that all in all this is an example of the fact that the attack on our popular democracy was turned back through these acts and the way we acted after the attack. So just – because so much has been said about it – a few brief remarks about some points of reality and the proposals. Now we know, from what has been said by our two government councils, that the government has started working on what we've called an overall plan. That's good, because this was one of the committee's most important points. I think it's important to say – and I say it at least as my confession – that we have something to wear overall, everything didn't work as it was supposed to. We're going to take that over, and it's good that the government has handled it. The other thing that I would like to mention briefly is what relates to PST. I just want to express my support for the initiatives undertaken by the PST regarding the need for review of the law relating to single terrorism. We're not going around it. It's very important that we go into it and handle it in a good way. My last sentences are just: I feel very confident that the decisions that Stortinget will make today are in a generation perspective. It will strengthen Norwegian democracy – and it will become the most important thing for us in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e813	Let me first express my full sympathy and support for those who were directly and indirectly affected by what happened in Norway on 22 July last year. I guess that's what the previous speaker was talking about, a scenario that no one could have imagined. It happened to us in such a way that this is a striking story that is going to be included in the history books forever in the future. The unmistakable thing actually happened here in the country. For the Storting, it is important that nothing should stand in the way of helping those who need help after this tragic event. Then Stortinget must know its visitation time and make sure that they get the help they need. Then, of course, I am glad that the Stortinget – through what you are doing today – has also taken responsibility. One thing is what the government is doing, one thing is what the Commission is doing, but the Storting, like the top political premise provider, is also totally dependent on clarifying its role in getting experience from what happened, and not least preventing everything we can and preventing anything like that from happening again. If we succeed in that, it's impossible to answer. Nevertheless, there should be a premise and a premise in the work on which it is based today. There are three themes I could imagine saying something about. The first thing goes on privacy. I was in this room when we discussed new legislation after 11 September 2001. Then we were also challenged, even though it was in a more distant way than this time, with an unparalleled attack. Our legislation was also affected at the time – and you can ask the question: Is it good enough? The glimmer of data protection legislation is that today technology has come so far that there are few limitations. But it's probably in such cases you should hurry slowly. You have to think about it once, twice, three times, for the possibilities exist. But do we want to have the society that is then the result of such a technology? What I believe the committee is doing today is a good foundation and a good basis for taking time to think about the consequences, that you have a cautious behaviour, while being very focused on what you want to achieve. And, as I said, if it's one time to hurry slowly, this is one of those cases. Another factor that others have greatly affected before me, but which I find sensible and of course to look at, is the cooperation between police and defence. These two institutions are the most important in assisting and ensuring the security of the nation of Norway. They have – happily – a lot of competence, a lot of knowledge and a ability and willingness to deliver their maximum, whether domestic or foreign. Our job is to take care of the values and qualities they hold, and to ensure that we have the best possible form of cooperation that strengthens the total security of our society. I see that the committee and both the state councils have pointed out that here we have an improvement potential. So from that point of view, we're on our way in the right direction. I think denying an improvement potential would be ignoring the facts. So I'm very happy that you're doing the opposite. It is pointed out that interaction, training and role-clearance are absolutely essential – and that is what needs to be done further. Without that, we're not doing our job. So in that way, I'm happy with what's happening. The last topic I've been thinking about is the Constitution and the balance between the defence roles and the police roles in the operative part. I am very pleased that the Minister of Defence and others here have pointed out that we are not going to change the perception of Section 99 of the Constitution. I perceive that the Prime Minister was clear that the defence must take more responsibility, but I assume that we should not move the balance point. The assistance instructions shall be provided. The rules that we have today, which are too many known, and which are at least anchored in our values, in democracy, Norway, are to be based. I don't think any of us want an American state, that when you see military forces on the street, it gives a sense of security. With us, I think, with all due respect, that it would have the opposite sign – then there is something extremely serious going on. So I'm very happy that we're maintaining it and taking care of it further. In extending the wisdom displayed here today, we need to be careful that the aid tool does not become larger than the primary tool. It also has a value anchoring and a focus that I think is important to take care of. In the end, I intended to share some words of wisdom that Arne Johannessen came with – on TV – the same day that the committee gave its opinion. He said the Storting has done a good job, but at the end of the day we also have to allocate the funds needed to achieve the goals we ourselves have defined in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e835	In today's newspapers, we can read the document on the charges against the terrorist, which was published yesterday. Among other things, it is written that it is the most scary document in recent Norwegian history. That's what I'm going to do. It describes a cynicism, an inhumanity, which is not at all understandable. In this context, perhaps the question of whether these monstrous acts could at all be indicative of Norwegian preparedness could be asked. That is to the extent an understandable question, but the answer from us in the Right is at least a loud yes. Unfortunately, this is an international picture that we have also seen in Norway, after the events last summer – a threat picture with an alarming associated brutality. Therefore, it is very gratifying that through the Special Committee, in the way that today's suspension shows, we make a common sense of reality visible, which is a good basis for securing and securing society in the future. The Committee shall present a statement containing three main elements: The first element is prevention. What can we all do to make sure that this doesn't happen again here with us? The importance of youth work and the growing-up environment is recognised as an important prerequisite for prevention. The cooperation between police and local authorities is pointed out in order to establish a good framework for tolerance and for the growing-up environment. From my own experience as rapporteur, I would also like to add that the PST has a role here. In my municipality, we had a special challenge of recruiting to the right-hand extreme environments and had good support from the PST, based on the knowledge and experience they put on. This is something you might be able to systematize a little bit more. The second main element of the Special Committee is operational actions in the field of preparedness and legal instruments. Here, of course, the 22nd July Commission will be behind a further debate on operational measures. However, the Committee also points to a wide range of measures. I will draw out a few: The Special Committee has revealed that the Liaison with the Directorate of Police of the Defence Department did not have a job file, but only a job description. In the further development of the liaison function, an instruction should be drawn up for the person clarifying responsibilities, authority and tasks. The Committee also points to the importance of setting up a police preparedness centre. The majority of the Committee points out that it should be in Oslo. From the Right, we believe that we need to look at several possibilities – which may also be outside Oslo – and look at the Oslo area instead, so that we can get the most appropriate location for such an important emergency centre. I would also like to address the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the representative of Eriksen Soreide, pointed out, namely, directives for military commanders and military commanders in the armed attack on Norway, the so-called Poster on the Wall. This summer's terrorist attack underscores and confirms the importance of a poster that actually hangs on the wall, and is not in a drawer – to put it that way. The third and last main element raised by the Committee is care for victims and relatives. On the part of society, we need to improve this care function. I want to pay tribute and praise to the Workers' Party for the difficult situation they were in, and the way they showed compassion, respect and action, precisely in the follow-up of victims and relatives after the summer terrorist attack. In the opinion of the Right, the setting up of the Special Committee is a good basis to be better equipped to face threats to society’s security in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e861	Like many others, I would also like to congratulate the 22nd July Committee on its work and, in particular, the Chairman's presentation here in the Grand Duchy today of the good position, on which there is a great deal of cross-political agreement, including with regard to comments and proposals. The work and attitude of the Committee is very important for the preparedness of the current and future, and not least for the follow-up of the victims. In setting up this special committee, as the Stortinget did, the Committee would point out a direction towards strengthening the preparedness of our nation and increasing the security of its population. The Committee has identified some key issues for work, which are: prevention of violent radicalisation and extremism; care for – and follow-up of – victims and relatives; interaction between police and defence; communication in emergency situations; protection of exposed objects; PST; police response time; and helicopter preparedness. As I read it, the Committee has been aware of the limitations that, among other things, is based on the fundamental principle of power distribution between the Stortinget, the Government and the Courts, and that the work of the Committee is also limited to the work of the 22 July Commission. In my speech, as a member of the Foreign and Defence Committee, I would like to focus on the interaction between the police and the defence, including helicopter preparedness. I believe it is important to stress that the primary task of the defence is to promote sovereignty and defend the country against external attacks. A fundamental principle in Norway is that civil crises should in principle always be enforced by civil authorities. This principle of responsibility must also be established after 22 July. It is also important to bring forward what the Minister of Defence pointed out during the hearing on 18 January: ‘The defence is dimensioned in order to fulfil its primary tasks, and support for social security shall in principle not determine the structure of the defence, of course in addition to where there is a natural part of the portfolio – the case of coastguard, border guard, etc.’.» However, in the event of civil crises and incidents, the defence has nevertheless a number of capacities that may be relevant to support crisis management. As underlined by the Minister of Defence, all available resources of the Defence Agency can be made available to ensure social security, depending on the actual situation and the needs of civil authorities. Some structural elements are particularly relevant and specifically prepared for such assistance. This applies in particular to Home Security, primarily in relation to assistance for object protection. Defence Special Command — FSK — is prepared for counter-terrorism. Air transport in general and helicopter transport in particular are also crucial capacities to assist the police. The same applies to the Defence Explosive Clearing Service. Both the Committee and the Government have put forward a number of measures and proposals for improving the interaction between police and defence. These include:\t\t You can change the The review of the aid instructions shall take the view that the interaction between police and defence is further developed and strengthened. Measures to raise the awareness of police officers of the importance of quickly requesting assistance from the Defence or others in the event of major incidents. Review of the possibility of enhanced cooperation or coordination of HV, civil protection and police reserve. Further development and strengthening of cooperation between the FSK and the response team. Strengthening military helicopter preparedness, both police access and military capability, including access to rescue helicopters. Review of objects to be secured by securing forces. The attacks of July 22 were a terrible crime. It is important that the nation learns from the weaknesses that have been revealed and provides improvement measures that strengthen preparedness and provide greater security for the population. As a small country, we depend on seeing total social resources across a whole, and that there are no watertight bulkheads between the different sectors. Substantial for resolving any future crises is a good interaction between police and defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e907	It's a very bad topic we're dealing with today in Stortinget, but I'll start by expressing my pleasure at the fact that there's a total big deal that stands behind the position of the special July 22 committee. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee and the opposition parties, who have contributed to this. July 22 was an attack on our country and on the values that are at the heart of our democracy. Norway stood up in a spontaneous response to terrorism. People took care of damage in the streets around the government quarter, and they searched through the buildings with a risk of their own lives. Volunteers threw themselves into the boats and mountain swimming youth in the Tyrifjord. And health professionals and policemen risked their own lives to carry out their vital job. Then the others followed in a defense of the large community that was attacked – through rose trains, appeals, meeting places in churches, in community and online. We have reason to be proud of how Norway reacted to terrorism. But pride is not enough, we must also take action in the continuation. Today it is 231 days since the dark Friday this summer. Most of us can go on. For those who are following the debate today, the way back has begun. For some, this will never go over. Many have to live with the consequences of the terrorist attack. We have representatives in this Chamber who are personally affected, and we have many, many more throughout the country. Too many have experienced what is our greatest nightmare: losing those they love. Several others are survivors in the family or have a close relationship with those who experienced the terror. It is important that all those in need receive as many and good answers as possible – how could this happen, and how should we prevent it from happening again? Here the work of the 22nd July Committee is an important building block, and the government's independent 22nd July Commission will of course be another crucial element in this work. The most important thing to say today is that if we apply for the answers together, we will also get a greater common benefit from them. I believe that the attitude that we are dealing with today is citizen of, and it is in the spirit that we have the opportunity to continue this important work. Equally important is that we are able to take care of those who still live with the consequences of terror every day. This is a great responsibility and it should not be powdered. It's a responsibility for the health care system, both the specialist health service and the permanent doctors. It is a responsibility for the school, for the municipalities and for all of us, not least a responsibility for us in Stortinget. It's good that we have a society with a strong safety net and a strong community. That safety net works best when we're a lot of people together keeping it up. That's why it's also on our way beyond today to make our society even stronger -- better equipped to take care of those who need help, better equipped to resist terror. On July 22nd, life has made too many worse. Together, we have a responsibility to improve Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e927	The attacks on the nation, democracy and our young people on July 22 have given hurts and set deep tracks – painful wounds and deep tracks that will always be there. The unimaginable and unreal became reality – a demanding reality that we all have to deal with in many ways and in many ways. We know that the future trial will be demanding, especially for all the survivors, survivors and relatives. They should know that we all think about them and send them warm thoughts. The terrible events of July 22 showed us that acts of terrorism can happen anywhere and at any time. We have all had a stronger relationship with the need for security and preparedness. Wide-ranging prevention will always be the main area of action. In addition, intelligence and monitoring of relevant environments are crucial for the detection of terrorist plans before they are put to life. But we must always be prepared if terror or other attacks against society strike us. In this context, there are many questions that most people have become more aware of, because it's about our security – questions like: How long does the police have if we are exposed to terror or other dramatic events? Is there a difference in response time between living in central or rural areas? Is there any actual terror targets near where I live? The Committee believes it is of great importance that the police are on site as soon as possible after notification of a serious incident – of course! This is precisely why the response time in the police has been further updated after 22 July. Response time is one of several important parameters for measuring and assessing police preparedness and ability to deal with acute crises. In this context, the need for police force is essential. I am therefore pleased that the government will make an assessment of what kind of police coverage must be available if we are to set requirements for defined response times. In Norway, we have many central objects that are targets of terrorism, both in cities and in districts. The government quarter was a terrorist target. Our young people on Ut Island were a target of terror. There are also many possible terrorist targets in the districts. Everything from cruise ports, hydroelectric development with large dams – if they fail – will have dramatic consequences – to central gas installations and important regional power supply facilities. The Committee understands that the implementation of object watchkeeping for safe objects needs to be assessed in terms of threat view, resource access and damage potential. In this context, the Committee also draws attention to the importance of the assistance that other partners can contribute to the object protection. Therefore, the Committee stresses that the protection of exposed objects must be included in the government's work, both with the police performance reform, the social security message and the long-term defence plan. Even I am very pleased that the Workers' Party Group will retain the protection structure as it is today. This is particularly important for the districts. Finally, some words about the care and follow-up of victims and relatives. We've heard examples that this works well in many places. But we've also been given examples of the opposite – that's not how it should be. Of course, we have to be prepared to follow and follow up for many, many years to come. I finally want to be a little personal. My husband and I have three sons. Two of them were on Utøya in 2010. Fortunately, they weren't there last year. We experienced that our municipality's crisis team contacted us to find out if our sons needed to talk, as they had been there the year before. That's what we think was an amazingly touching concern, which we really appreciated, and which meant a lot to our sons.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e963	Today, I really feel that the Great One is showing strength. I also want to underline the value and dignity of the great degree of consensus that characterises this setting. The tone in which this debate takes place gives the attitude extra weight and meaning. So I want to say that good management often means a lot. This committee has really had a good leader, and we have cooperated very well. I also think that we live up to what we say in the position, namely that society needs key decision-makers with the will to change and who have the ability to learn. We show respect for the many victims and for all the others who are affected, not least to the many who have stood on and helped until 22 July, and who have done a great job afterwards and will continue to do so. The experience of the unreal and terrible events of July 22 not only gives us new knowledge to ward off new terrorist attacks, but also gives us new dimensions to the entire preparedness and social security work, along with what we are left with from fresh experience after floods, races, hurricanes and – I add – ash clouds and the loss of telecommunications. A safer society requires a willingness to change and to learn at all levels. A great deal of work is being done in a number of agencies and sectors in the field of preparedness and social security. Substantial resources are being used, and there is a great deal of expertise. By interacting better and constantly getting us, and also coordinating, new knowledge, we get even more out of resources. In addition, we have to do additions where necessary. We live in a hard country, and both house, home and critical infrastructure are exposed. When we debate interaction between different actors and agencies in order to create safer Norway, these are also important issues. It is very important when nature challenges us, or when otherwise object protection and help is needed, that those who have trained and who have the competence to deal with almost every situation can come in a reasonable time. It is not without reason that there has been a high level of involvement with the Home Security in the long-term defence plan. We are therefore many who are very satisfied, and who think it is reassuring that it is now clearly signaled that the Home Security should consist of its structure and strength, and even be strengthened, in particular through increased training – the same with the Civil Defense. But it is important to explore how resources can also be better coordinated here, and that in this context one can also involve the police reserve. Here we need a good investigation before we see if there's any basis for evaluating some kind of aggregation. But in that case there must be a means and no measure in itself. The broad and local work on social security and preparedness is very important, and at all levels the voluntary forces are crucial to our security. All the functions of society today depend on ICT, from the production and distribution of food, water and energy to our ability to communicate, defend us sail against hostile actions, and investigate criminal activities. After all, ICT can really be hacked. The impact of possible incidents has become greater and greater as seen, and data crime is increasing, while common criminal acts are increasingly reiterating digital tracks. Patterns and tracks that can alert future actions are often also found in the digital space, but all of this is difficult to find, put together and understand. The open threat assessment presented by the Minister of Defence on Monday this week by the Intelligence Service concludes that: ‘In peacetime, the most widespread threat to Norwegian interests is the theft of commercial data and intellectual property.’ This type of safety work requires deeper and broader competences than ever. Our Committee therefore provides unanimous and clear support for the establishment of a centre of expertise for information security at the Gjøvik College, with the call for active follow-up by the government. The idea behind the centre is that competence building in different sectors and across sectors has much to do with being closely linked to long-term research with a large international network. A number of organisations support this initiative. The unanimous com mittee's comments represent a significant recognition of the environment and stress the need for its establishment as part of a modern, comprehensive preparedness that addresses emerging challenges and threats.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e987	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e990	Terror hit us all raw and brutally, unexpectedly and unprepared. As a nation we wept together, white as brown, Christians as Muslims, natives as immigrants. We stood together, together in grief, and everyone was included, also those with the turban and those with the hijab. Someone discussed, and even more thought: how would the nation have dealt with this if the perpetrator had not been white, but named Ali and was a Muslim? It is impossible to know how we as a nation had dealt with this, but I – like many others – have known the fear that the terrorist will be Muslim in the future. How will the political rhetoric be, what will the reactions be? Would the turbans and the hijabs be equally naturally welcome to the grief? I hope we don't get the answer. I hope that in the future we will be spared the brutality and brutality of the extremists, but the fact is that the danger of terror has not diminished in recent years. On the contrary, the terrorist threat has increased. There is a danger of solo terrorists with white skin color, the danger of solo terrorists with brown skin color, the danger of extremist violence from neo-Nazis, the danger of extremist violence from Islamists – politically and/or religiously motivated. We as a nation and people can meet the new threat picture. We can stand together against the danger of both white and brown extremists, against socially harmful racist ideology – whether it is Nynazist, religiously influenced or Islamist. We do that by strengthening the links between ourselves and building bridges between peoples by creating a closer society. Then everyone has to go into himself, and we have to ask ourselves: shall it be possible in the future to talk condescendingly and half-racist about groups of people? Should we accept a rhetoric that systematically stamps Muslims as second-class citizens? Are we going to find ourselves in political rhetoric that stamps asylum seekers as smarters? Such small drops do not build bridges. It hurts the relationship between us individuals and groups. We need to improve ourselves. As politicians, we must be better models. To my political colleagues, I would like to say that we must strengthen our rhetoric. We must be aware that our words hurt and rejoice. We can build bridges and tear them down. We decide whether new groups should feel like part of our community, or whether they should feel apathy and rootlessness. We must encourage religious groups and parents to build citizens. Unfortunately, hatred for Jews and hatred for Muslims is among our young people. Good dialogue can change us all. My lesson after having held many dialogue meetings is just this: If we show empathy and understanding, if we show love and care, we can also demand and expect. We have to hold on to the fact that even though the nation's citizens have many different skin colors and religions, everyone can be equally loyal and patriotic in Norway. At least we in the Storting must hold on to the fact that the nation's citizens have more in common than what divides us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1005	In some European cities and countries, there is a need for humanism, clear attitudes and legal certainty. When Ali does not get the job for which he is qualified in Norway, there is a need for humanism, clear attitudes and legal certainty. And when we breathed lightly because the terror was not committed by an extreme Muslim in Norway, but by a glacial white Northman from the best west side, there is a need for realism, and that we settle with ourselves what sound bottoms exist in each of us and in the Norwegian community. We have to take the relief we felt, seriously. We must prevent all kinds of extremism and that extreme attitudes do not root. The financial crisis leads to poverty, social unrest, the emergence of right-wing populism, right-wing extremism and national governance at the expense of international cooperation. We hear these voices in Norway, in Europe and in other parts of the world. For the Workers' Party, it is very important to warn against such developments. The answers to the challenges we face – whether after 22 July, terrorism, extremism or financial crisis – are more international cooperation, not less. There is a clear link between small differences and trust in a society. Research documents it. Generally, large differences are said to be less reliable. It has also been proven that trust and mistrust can be affected by politics. That's good. Overall, confidence has stagnated in Europe and inequalities have increased. Norway is an exception. We must therefore be very careful to turn the debate after the lessons of July 22 into only an operational debate on preparedness measures. There must also be an ongoing debate on what values we should choose every day, and how those values should form the basis of our political choices. Seven months have passed since July 22nd. They have included most – grief, joy, despair, optimism, inroads, cohesion, care, media debate, debate on the rule of law, debate on punishment, faith and doubt, anger and love, count and wisdom and impressive, surviving youths. All of this we have had and much more, and today we have a worthy and good debate in Stortinget. When I think about July 22, I think of a nice day that turned into a cruel nightmare. When I think about the days after, the first words I think about, care, roughness and harmony. My wish for the future is that the roughness between us in Norway can exist and be expanded, that we accept inequalities, that we accept that being a human being means that we are all wrong and missing. Nobody's perfect. I hope that 22 July 2011 can be the beginning of the hundred years of tolerance and roughness in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1020	On July 22, more than 500 young people survived on Ut Island. But they experienced the worst hours of their lives, by being on an island that was the scene of a politically motivated massacre. We are many who are impressed by the strength that young people have shown, and by the prudence that many have demonstrated when they have expressed themselves. At the same time, some of the young people themselves will need support from the auxiliaries for a long time. For no one is only strong, no one is only weak, and no one shall stand alone. Last fall, the Minister of Knowledge sent a letter to all the country’s school owners and schools. There she wrote that the schools and teachers have to stretch far in order for students affected by the terrorist action to get their school days organized. This has a lot to say for the future of many of those who were hit. That way, it also has a lot to say for the future to all of us. Because like 17-year-old Marte Gustavsen Ødegården has said: ‘I’m not going to stop politics just because a deed has shot me. I see that it is important to engage in the fight against people like him." As the opinion shows, there is a joint committee that underlines the school's mission and that it is bilateral: the school is to be educated and the school is to be formed. Our children and young people need to learn not only facts but also values and attitudes. It is a noble mark of Norwegian society that our children and young people go to a school that is common to all, regardless of background, financial assumptions or personal luggage. That's how we learn to break up at an early age, we learn how different we can be, and how similar we need to be in order to be one society. In this way, the school, together with parents and non-governmental organisations, can play an important role in establishing and strengthening the shared values of society. It is important to prevent anti-democratic attitudes and anti-social behaviour, which, together with other factors, can lead to extremism. There is a strength in the debate after July 22 that we see the long lines of a school that is common, a society that has few differences, a society that has a high level of trust, and our own ability to prevent extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1036	Yesterday, Muhammad, who is still at Sunnaas, had his first running hour. It is very good to see young people who are failing in a lot of damage fighting back. Many people will need to follow-up for a long time in the future. Support teams do a great job, and there are a lot of people in the municipalities who are good support players for the victims, so they can come back to their everyday lives and be able to handle what they did on July 22nd. All of us can be fellow human beings. I want to thank the committee for doing a very good job. The fact that the Stortinget is now discussing 14 proposals is in fact a strength in the further efforts to reduce terror. I am also very pleased with the comment that it says that the committee will ‘approve’ all those who contributed to the rescue work. There were many, and many did a great deal, even a danger to their own lives. I don't think we can thank these people enough. In the drafting that Knut Storberget had here in Stortinget, he called for a wide-ranging debate on the prevention of radicalisation and optional extremism. One of the proposals was on SLT – coordination model for local prevention of crime. As former spokesperson in Ski, I have worked very much with the SLT project in that municipality. SLT is actually just a common tool to prevent crime, but also to take care of children and young people. There is cooperation and openness between police, health services, child protection, youth clubs, schools and voluntary organisations. The goal is to create a good environment for all young people. It's about inclusion. It's about everyone coming. I think that is one of the most important preventive work we can do. I think it is important that the municipalities that are not already running the SLT projects get started. Equally important is that there is not just a project, but that there is a continuous focus on prevention, that one is always on. Then, too, it is unlikely that someone will be held responsible, so that something will not flow, but that someone will have to take responsibility for that coordination. We need to take that into account in the follow-up to the decisions we are making here. For all the victims, for all the relatives, for all the inhabitants of our country, it's important that we do everything we can to fight terror in the future. Security, more openness, more democracy – but never naivety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1051	On July 22nd, we were subjected to a terrorist attack with an atrocity that shocked an entire world. But we also have to assume that this cruelty was committed by one terrorist. And we must have trained that individuals can perform terrorist actions. What is most extreme with July 22 is the result of this terrorist action, with 77 deaths and many more victims – a terrorist action that the country must live with historically. On 22 July, all weaknesses in Norwegian preparedness were demonstrated. Systems failed, individuals traded. What we as society have to deal with is, first of all, to care for the victims and their relatives in a good way, and we have to do it over a long period of time. We have to do preventive work. We also need to build up a preparedness that is so good that we can prevent and react by estimations that more than one person can be involved, and estimates with greater and better organisation. We have to look at how the police use their capabilities, how they're trained, how the emergency situation works, and whether the PST work is good enough. As a society, we need to have a review of assistance and how cooperation between police and defence works – not to change the principles between defence and police, but to better ensure the security of the population in a free, open, democratic society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1060	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1066	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Then we're going to hope that the wetting system doesn't fail. There are, as probably several have registered, problems with the current in the house, so that the sound has failed at some point – and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1076	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left motion No. 4, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left proposals No. 7-10, by Anders Anundsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 11, by André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right and Left motion No. 12, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose legislative decisions setting out the limits for the use of military resources and military power towards civilians in peacetime.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1120	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 to 10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is requesting immediate coordination of the emergency situation map systems so that they can find the location of each other’s operational capabilities on their own mapping solutions using GPS technology and existing police, health and fire platforms. The size shall be subject to implementation by October 2012.’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for immediate implementation of the GPS marking on the emergency and emergency resources that are not currently part of existing systems. The measure is financed in the revised national budget for 2012 and the budget for 2013. The size shall be assumed to have been completed by March 2013.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for the renewal of the ICT systems of the police and where the funding is not taken into account by the police’s normal operating framework.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Presidency of the United Kingdom to consider the establishment of a dedicated Security Committee to deal with matters which are outside the scope of public policy and which concern the secret security services.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1152	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Swedish Government on ICT investment in the police.’ The President assumes, on the basis of the debate, that the Progress Party supports the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1169	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the current system of its own police reserve with a view to upgrading it in order to contribute rapidly to terrorist attacks or serious crises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1184	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up a new vulnerability selection with a view to a new social security impact assessment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1199	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting to review the role of experts in legal proceedings, including the use of video recordings of experts’ investigations related to the probability assessment of sighted persons.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1214	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that there are concrete overviews of what assistance the defence can provide to individual police districts in the event of terrorist attacks or major disasters, as well as the expected actual use of time to mobilise the individual resource.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1229	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to re-examine the organisation, capacity, organisational location and funding mechanism of the police helicopter in the context of the Performance Reform Scoreboard Communication in order to ensure the appropriate use of the service in the relevant police districts.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a final investment and funding plan for civil protection in the revised national budget for 2012.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-08.ana.ud2248e1369	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
