ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e26	Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Gorm Kjernli on parental leave from 1 February to 15 June from the representatives of Mr Harald T. Nesvik and Mr Svein Roald Hansen on leave from 6 February to 10 February in order to take part in the meeting of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels and travel to Indonesia Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Akershu County, Anita Orlund, and the first alternate of the More and Romesdal counties, Jon Georg Dale, respectively, applications are made for exemption from meeting in the Stortinge under the representative Gorm Kjernlis leave from 1 February to 15 June respectively, and under the representative Harald T. Nesvik's leave on Tuesday 7 February – both for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications shall be examined without delay and the following alternates shall be invited to meet during the period of leave: For Akershus County: Siri Hov Egg 1 February–15. June For More and Romesdal counties: Åge Austheim 7 February and Jon Georg Dale 8 and 9 February For Eastfold counties: Stein Erik Lauvås 7–9. February
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e82	Siri Hov Egg is present and will take the seat. The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e87	On behalf of the representative, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative for a review of the template rules for the taxation of free telephone and other electronic communications services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e92	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e95	On behalf of the great-great-representatives Solvency Horne, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make a proposal to make the castle's cultural treasures available to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e100	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e112	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the Councils of State Grete Faremo and Ola Borten Moe will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e119	My question goes to the state council Ola Borten Moe. We are facing significant investments in electricity infrastructure in this country. It's about investing 40-50 billion. kr in the years to come, and that's good. In those plans there are also plans to build more sea cables for the continent to exchange power. What I have noticed is an opinion from Environment Minister Erik Solheim, when he was present at a meeting with the wind power industry on 13 January – only a few weeks ago. Then he said that several foreign tables are good because it will give more expensive power. The Minister for the Environment therefore believes that one of the main reasons for building more cables abroad is that it will increase the market for Norwegian power, and thus we will have a pressure on the price that will, of course, affect Norwegian consumers. My question to the Council of State is simply whether, as the Council of State in this field, he shares the views of his colleague, Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, on this matter – that one of the main points of building more sea cables is to press the price of electricity for Norwegian customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e128	At first I think it is important to put in place that it is not certain that Erik Solheim has said that the prices of electricity in Norway are going to rise, and that the way to do that is to build cables abroad. It's at least a reservation that I have to take. What I can explain is our plans and our views on this. It had the Stortinget's other opportunity to discuss in connection with an interpellation traveled by the representative Siri A. Meling for a short time back. That is quite correct, we need to invest a lot in infrastructure development on networks in the years to come – it is necessary. I have a lot of support in this room for the objectives, the importance and the needs of that effort. Cables to the rest of the world are also accounted for, some of them are presented for increased capacity to exchange. In Statnett's long-term plan, there are two projects. It has not been given that increased foreign exchange capacity needs to mean an increase in price, it also has elements in itself of increased security of supply, increased regularity, and I dare remind you that Hydro has submitted an analysis that could also indicate that increased exchange capacity is an advantage for our powerful industry. Summaries: I don't think we can say that more exchange capacity uniquely means increasing prices, it can also give more reasonable prices and a more stable power image.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e139	That is quite right. What this is all about is, of course, the relationship between supply and demand, that is. the generation of electricity on the one hand and the receiving market on the other. However, it is unlikely that price formation will be affected if the flow from Norway is greater than the total increase in production that comes. Councillor Erik Solheim has not denied this opinion. It was printed in a number of online newspapers. It had its origin in Technical Weekly, which had this printed on 16 January. So, as the Council of State, he has not dissented these statements. Then this seems very strange. Is it such that the government council Erik Solheim speaks out on a free basis, without having the government behind him, or is it the government's view he expresses when he says that it is a desired goal to increase the electricity price?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e148	With all due respect, I strongly believe that controlling what Erik Solheim has said and not, above all, should be a question to Erik Solheim. However, the government's policy is firm. It has been explained to Stortinget in several rounds, and I am absolutely sure that Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss Norwegian energy policy and Norwegian policy in terms of infrastructure, really in many ways in the future. My goal is to proceed with the plans that we have outlined. It is about increasing renewable energy deployment in Norway, it is about increasing investment in infrastructure and thus contributing to a climate-friendly, modern, stable and secure electricity supply network in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e155	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Oskar J. Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e158	There is no doubt that the Party SV stands for the statements that were referred here. As late as in the bioenergy debate on 8 November 2010, during the Bioenergy Days, representatives from SV reiterated this position that a higher price wanted. In central Norway, we have experienced a price regime where a high price should be a tool to reduce power consumption. We all know the background for that. The price measure has worked, with price peaks rising to DKK 12–14 per kilowatt hour. This has led to significant lay-offs in the melting plant industry. It has stopped new industrial establishment. It has given export companies considerable additional costs and has blinded them with the least resources – even so that they have had to go into payment arrangements with the power companies because they have had major problems paying them. Does the Council of State think that the experience from Central Norway is so positive that they should benefit the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e167	I think what we've seen in Central Norway in recent years is something that has been an important learning for many actors in the power industry and for the planning of the public power system and their responsibilities. These include: Therefore, a historic upgrade of the infrastructure is now being made to electricity transport in Norway. Just before Christmas, the government gave the final concession to the construction of the line between Ørskog and Sogndal, which is one of the main responses to the power challenges we've had in Middle Norway. In addition, in the case of Middle Norway, the Nea–Järpström line was put into operation a year and a half ago, and there have been changes in the Swedish power system that make the price picture in Middle Norway very different. One of the objectives of the policy we are now pursuing is security of supply and a reasonably similar price picture of electricity across the country. It is important for predictability, investment and consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e176	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e179	Right wants to strengthen links with the rest of the world, both to make use of the potential we have in terms of increasing energy production and to increase our own security of supply. The right is fully in line with the trade movement and in line with Industry Energy, Energy Norway and Norwegian Industry. A study was also submitted at the beginning of December to present a common platform on these issues, showing that increasing capacity towards the rest of the world, originally planned, has only moderate price effects. My question to the Council of State is whether we can expect an increased effort beyond the reduced level of ambition that the government has now had until 2020 that we will really increase capacity towards the rest of the world, for the benefit of producers and for Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e187	Let me first say that I'm a little surprised at the expression'reduced level of ambition'. This government now approves and launches an infrastructure investment programme on the electricity side of Norway, which is historic in all respects. It shall link the country together, provide conditions for new production, and provide a level playing field for industrial development and settlement throughout the country. That's very good. Last year, Norway posted two records — one on imports, the other on exports, of electricity. It's with the infrastructure we have today. Additional four connections are under construction or planned. One, to Denmark, is now being built. Then there is the South West link to Sweden and two cables within the long-term plans of Statnett – one to Germany and one to the United Kingdom. It is therefore a very comprehensive and ambitious programme that the government approves and wants to implement. In view of that, I think there is no reason to be afraid that we will not have a good power system, either in Norway or in relations with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e194	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e197	The Minister of Energy does not have to be very surprised that the government's attitude to foreign relations is asking questions. We don't have to go to the Minister for the Environment. You can only look at the Minister of Energy's own statements in different contexts on this issue, and you'll find that this comes with different signals. It is a fact that, through the green certificate market, we are significantly changing the conditions of the power market in the Nordic region, and there is now a significant uncertainty in the industry for future investments. The price picture is such that some fear that you get too low a price to dare to invest again. We want stable, acceptable prices across the country, and then we have to have stable conditions for those who need to invest. How does the Council of State view the prognosis that at least some individuals promote? There is considerable uncertainty about profitability in future investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e206	It's a notion that I don't share. I believe that the green certificate market and the investments we are making in infrastructure create a predictable, good system of necessary investments also in green power generation in the time to come. Otherwise, one of the things that is very good with the green certificate system is that the demand curve is given, that is. that the best projects will at all times find a sufficient economy for making investment decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e211	Let's go to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e214	We are now getting more and more gloomy reports every day through the newscasts about what is going on in Syria, a situation in which we have seen over 5,000 civilian lives lost in the last ten months' rebellion against President Assad. We've seen that what started out as a peaceful, non-violent resistance and an attempt at regime change, is now about to end up in a relatively bloody civil war. In the last few days, international efforts have been made to get a joint block to get President Assad to withdraw and change the situation in Syria. The Arab League has gone to the front by sending observers first, but now they have pulled them out because of the escalation of violence. The information is poor, and it is relatively not transparent, among other things. as journalists and observers to Syria have limited opportunity to follow what is going on. The United States, France and the United Kingdom, together with the EU and the Arab League, have submitted a proposal for a resolution. They have asked for international support to press for Assad to leave. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: When we see how Russia and China now oppose the adoption of decisions in the Security Council, what opportunity do we have, together with like-minded countries, to put pressure on both the regime and on their international support players – Russia, Iran and China – and simply get the UN more involved and make sure that this does not end up in a total civil war that could become very bloody?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e223	I share with the representative Solberg's mention of this very serious situation: several thousand people killed and an internal situation in Syria reminiscent of the civil war. Let me just briefly say that Norway has consistently spoken with a clear voice in this matter. We have been a proponent of the UN Human Rights Council's proceedings in April, August and December, and we were co-rapporteurs of the UN General Assembly when an opinion was presented there. Our line has been to provide systematic support for the initiative of the Arab League, knowing that they are closest to both understanding and intervention in the situation in Syria that is complex against the background of the violence being used. It is complex because, in the Syrian regime, it is difficult to understand where power sits, where security power sits, how this country is governed by different minorities and majority groups, how balances are, and with a more unclear picture of opposition identity, than in, for example. Libya. That's why it's been our line that the Arab League, with its commitment, has been closest to understanding the situation and has had the right – at our discretion – values as the basis for driving a change, that is, a change where those in power state it in a transitional period towards what might remind us of free elections in Syria. So the representative is right that this is now blocked in the UN Security Council that this week is dealing with the matter. I think it is a paradox for Russia to experience that they are thus facing the Arab world, which, together with countries from what we know as the West, have drawn up a balanced resolution, if I may say so. It is a resolution that does not address military use of power, whether the Russians should be concerned about it. We will continue to give support to that work, and we are clear on it also to countries such as Russia, China, Iran and others and hope that it will be possible to reach an overall resolution. It is a defeat for the Security Council that they are unable to unite on a decision in such a serious matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e234	I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is a defeat for the United Nations when one is unable to gather in such a situation, given that international law is extended with greater responsibility when one has this kind of relatively large killing of civilians as we see in the conflict in Syria. One thing is to make sure that countries like Russia and China are pressured to think differently. I think that today no one can see that the long-term outcome can be anything but that the regime has to go, because after what has happened in the last ten months, this regime can only survive through brutal repression of large parts of its own population. But then there's also the question of what we can do about supporting the oppositional forces that are. Last week there was a group of opposing forces — a large rainbow coalition — in Norway. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Does Norway have a strategy to support the oppositional forces, such as: has base in large parts of the diaspora from Syria?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e243	Let me just say first, as a follow-up to the previous question, that a dilemma here is that one of the reasons why it is difficult to reach agreement in the Security Council is the aftermath of Libya, following the UN Security Council Resolutions 1970 and 1973, and the struggle for their implementation. There is also a cross-thinking of how to maintain international consensus on such important, important issues. Norway is in contact with the oppositional forces in Syria. I myself received representatives from the national council that was in Norway just before Christmas. We're trying to have dialogue with them in the diaspora and especially from where they've had their main seat in France. I will add that Norway also has good contacts in the region and in Syria. It's a pretty fragmented movement. It is not a clear set of objectives and direction for policy. I think it again speaks for the fact that the transition phase for which the Arab League has called for – i.e. a process in contrast to free and right choices – is the right way to follow. We get to hope that's the way it goes, and that it won't be even more violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e252	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e255	Qatar's Prime Minister al-Thani concluded yesterday that Syria's killing machine is going too far. That's the coating to say. Just since the insurrection started in March last year, 5,400 people – at least – have been killed. The Secretary-General of the Arab League, El-Araby, called on the Security Council yesterday to ‘take action quickly’. What this situation shows is the joy of the fact that it is the Arab League that is driving change in Syria. At the same time, it is also important to note that it is our traditional allies, along with the Arab League, who are now the champions of a regime change in Syria and a democratic future for Syria. The U.S. intelligence chief said in Congress yesterday that al-Assad could not possibly be sitting, and his fall is coming. It would have been interesting to get some brief comments on it, along with the peace proposal of the Arab League, which is now under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e267	I think that a lot of people agree on, is that a leader and a management who shoots militaryly against their people, loses legitimacy. The outcome in the Arab world has shown that the kind of leaders fall. That's why there's a great deal of probability that it also happens with this regime. At the same time, the Arab League has been careful to ask for regime change as such. The text it is now working on does not address it, although Russia believes it is implicit. Now you can say that when you track down a regime's fall, you've opened up for a regime change, but it's not an agenda to put in another regime. It's one of the challenges in Syria, that it's not immediately clear who will take it. That is why the proposal of the Arab League makes sense because it points to a process that should move towards something the Syrians themselves can choose. The ability of the process to survive is, of course, difficult and becomes more difficult day by day as a result of the violent uprising. I still think we should have it as the main track that we support it because, as the representative of Skovholt Gitmark says, it has something to do with legitimacy and closeness to the conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e274	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e277	I think it is absolutely right as Norway does, to support the plan of the Arab League, with the state we are now seeing in the United Nations, the locked situation and an ever-deterioration on the ground in Syria. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs rule out that Norway can – I stress – support the use of tougher instruments aimed at Syria, which is not based on the UN Security Council, if the humanitarian situation on the ground in Syria so warrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e282	I believe that we have implemented rather tough instruments now. The sanctions against Syria. The currency reserves are shrinking, and the survival of this regime is challenged not only internally in the form of failing support at home, but also because it is put under severe external pressure. I think I can see that. I find it very unlikely that Norway will support the use of military power – if that is what the representative of Höglund believes – which is not based in the United Nations. I believe that it does not have to be something that we open up now when we have a debate that the Security Council has to take responsibility. On the contrary, the Security Council must now be clearly informed that it is the top body to assess the use of strong instruments. They have to take their responsibilities. It is not good neither for the United Nations nor for the organization of the world that the Security Council appears to be the paralysed for action. I also believe that they will come to a decision at some point in time. So it's not like military solutions here are a quick solution to get results in such an unbridled situation as it is in Syria. There's also nothing the Arab League here has wanted or been in favour of – in contrast to what they were in favour of in relation to Libya.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e291	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e294	I think there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that Norway should support the international efforts enshrined in the UN and international law to end the mad terror that is taking place in Syria. The Foreign Minister himself mentioned the comparison with the conflict in Libya and the aftermath of the operation there as a complicating factor in resolving the situation in Syria. It's so that what's now happening in Syria can be compared in many ways. It is a regime that systematically slaughters its own people with killing, terror and torture. There are obviously crimes against humanity that are taking place under the direction of President Assad. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, how will he explain to the Norwegian people that the world community is as passive as it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e303	There are clear similarities in the form of assaults against people. In fact, more people are killed by the regime in Syria than in Libya. At the same time, I think it is a continuing educational task to explain that there are differences between situations in countries. Libya had a different composition of the conflict. It was the situation around Benghazi, it was the question of an air ban, and one could intervene quite clearly the distinction between a rebellion movement and a regime. It's more complex in Syria. Syria is also included in many more contexts with neighbouring countries in a high-prevalence region, which makes use of military resources something to be thought through very carefully. I think it's actually possible to explain that. The UN Human Rights Commissioner has said this is about crimes against humanity. It's fixed internationally. I do not entirely agree with the description that it is a tafat international society. There is a lot of lye that is now used against Syria. I think that also contributes to the regime being as pressured as it is. But from there to say that you're going to use military power without having a clear plan and an overview for it, it's a long piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e312	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e315	The situation in Syria is also frightening because violence is escalating so fast that you might also get power shifts among the opposition, where maybe it's the crazy forces that are winning because of the assaults. What blocks the big hold that we wanted is an overall security board. Russia has one of the key roles there. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has a good relationship with the Russian authorities. That's what we've seen in this room in some other things. So my question is whether the Foreign Minister and the government can imagine using their influence towards Russia to ask Russia to have a much more constructive and unifying role in getting a comprehensive Security Council to exert pressure on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e322	I would like to thank the representative, Mrs Grandes, for the faith in Norway's influence in foreign policy! I can confirm that this is a subject we deal with Russia when we meet with them at political level – at the latest a few days ago. We see that these are differences in vision. Russia has for many years, from before Russia, Russia – in the time of the Soviet Union – also had Syria as a very important bridgehead in the Middle East. It is a sustained interest that Russia places emphasis on both their presence, port access, etc. There are conditions that weigh heavily on them now. I do not think there is any doubt that the Russian authorities are seeing the political situation in which the country is about to enter, so they are protecting the regime in Damascus from decisions being taken in the UN Security Council. Now this debate is not over. There is an ongoing debate on a text. I choose to believe that you come to a text, to take responsibility for preventing a text in connection with what is happening in Syria, and to remain responsible, is not something I believe any country really wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e333	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e337	My question also goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I stand here with the 2012 Human Rights Watch report on a country with which Norway has had long relations under changing conditions, namely Eritrea. There are reports of a political situation that testify to widespread violations of human rights. We're talking about a one-party state – no state of law. People who are politically active are at risk of arbitrary arrests, and they are detained indefinitely. Torture and inhumane prison conditions, strong restrictions on freedom of expression, freedom of belief, freedom of assembly and freedom of movement are reported, and large parts of the workforce are forced to serve in the army for an indefinite period. The social situation is, of course, a consequence of long periods of war. The country is unable to produce enough food for its own consumption, and it is claimed that nearly two thirds of the population receive food aid. Human Rights Watch sums up the situation this way: Eritrea marked 20 years of independence last year, but the people of Eritrea have unfortunately become victims of one of the world's most oppressive regimes. I would like to know how the Minister of Foreign Affairs judges developments for the Eritrean people and for the human rights in Eritrea, and what the Minister of Foreign Affairs believes Norway can do together with the international community to get the regime to respect fundamental civil and social rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e346	I've also studied the Human Rights Watch report with interest. Let me first just say that it underlines the importance of organisations like Human Rights Watch doing this work and getting information, as Amnesty and others do. It is such that Eritrea is one of the most closed countries, least accessible countries to understand, both the internal development and the role it plays in a region with great tensions. We're probably in such a position that we can understand a little bit more than others because we have presence there. We have quite long traditions with people for people. There are many with Eritrean backgrounds in Norway, so we follow that situation with a special interest. The situation for people in Eritrea is difficult. It's also too many others in that part of Africa. There are major problems related to drought, and there are major problems related to natural development, complicated by an authoritarian regime in the way they organize the country, and a regime that is highly militarized, which is in conflict and tension with other countries in the region, thus taking away the focus from all necessary development work for its people. It also reflects, as the representative says, in the strong position of the military: coercion and military service, the death penalty for not performing military service, a human rights situation that is critical, and a regime that is monolithic and linked to one person. Unfortunately, this is not a single case in today's world. There are such regimes, and it is bad for people living in those countries. Norway wants to use — and use — the opportunities we have, state-to-state. We're using the opportunities we have in the region. Once again, we talked earlier about the Arab League from the Arab world, the African Union in this part of Africa, and the multilateral channels, where we can take up and set the agenda and commit countries. These are the strategies that Norway can use and use actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e357	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is expressing a serious assessment of the situation and developments in Eritrea. Since this is a country in which Norway has had contact at a high political level relatively recently, where Norway has diplomatic relations, and where civil society is still in intervention, a natural follow-up question on my part about the Minister for Foreign Affairs can imagine taking some kind of initiative to follow up on the serious human rights violations that this Human Rights Watch report shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e362	I think I can answer yes to that, because it is a long tradition, and many countries know and recognize Norway that when there is such information from sources to which we have reason to attach credibility, we use it in our material when we have contact with a country's authorities. So we want to do that right over here. It is natural to ask for evaluation, explanation, for the findings made, and to keep countries responsible for it, both in bilateral contact – it is important, but there are, we can say, relatively limited – and in being on an international and regional agenda in such a way that they can also be influenced by other countries, which can contribute, hopefully, to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e367	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e370	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Justice. After the Foreign Minister's undisclosed statement on the human rights situation in Eritrea, it is natural to challenge the Minister of Justice for some information we have now received, that the Ministry of Justice is working towards a return agreement with Eritrea. An interesting assessment of UNE was made a short month ago, in which they converted a decision. One of the reasons why they converted the decision to the favour of the applicant was precisely the fact that there was a closed country with minimal possibilities for obtaining information on human rights. This is also one of the reasons why the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has asked countries such as Norway to exercise great caution in forcing refugees to return to Eritrea. I could imagine hearing the Minister of Justice's assessment, i.e. what kind of sources it is the Minister of Justice uses when she now opens the door to forced returns... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e379	In 2011, there were 1,256 asylum seekers in Norway from Eritrea. The percentage of asylum seekers from Eritrea is relatively high, which was about 80 pst. by the end of November last year. The last meetings that the Norwegian authorities, after I have been informed, had with the Eritrean authorities about a possible withdrawal agreement, are back to the end of 2010. It is clear that we are following the situation in Eritrea very closely, also in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that we are generally engaged in return agreements with countries where there are many rejections of asylum applications, and we are now having such negotiations in progress with approx. 20 countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e386	Åse Michaelsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e389	I am really asking that the Council of State stay standing, because my question is also to the Council of State Faremo. Eritrea and return agreement: We have a strong focus on settlement transfer agreements, and I asked the Council of State a week and a time ago about the transfer of compensation to countries that we know are corrupt. We see that there have been signs, including from Lithuania, that people who have been transferred in connection with the settlement have been able to purchase their property free of charge. The Council of State then replied that Norway has no knowledge, no statistics, no systems to capture this and the results here. Is this not a discharge? And what will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e394	Now Lithuania was referred to as a country for which this is relevant; we have a settlement transfer agreement with this country. What I explained in my reply to the representative was the procedures we have for clarifying the situation prior to handover, and of course I also explained the possibilities of obtaining information afterwards. It is a fact that our ability to obtain information, credible information, in this area is limited, and that, of course, it also opens up the possibility of credible statistical guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e399	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e403	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Since independence in 1991, the human rights situation in Eritrea has steadily deteriorated. Fundamental rights are violated every day, even the slightest criticism of the regime can mean imprisonment and/or torture. Prisoning is usually done without law and judgment and at an indefinite time. According to journalists without borders, only North Korea is in worse condition for journalists than Eritrea. In Easter last year, one party state of Eritrea was honoured by 600 delegates at a conference at the Gardermoen. It was the Socialist Party that organized the Eritrean Youth Party. It's an organisation that's also part of the grassroots part of Norwegian Typing. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is right that we have organisations linked to Norway that get money through Norwegian Typing and that both pay homage to the one-party state and work for one-party state in Eritrea?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e412	The President will state that Norwegian Typing is not constitutionally under the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs would like to reply. Please, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e415	As an avid tipper, I can answer that question. In principle, I would say that I assume that the herbal remedies are distributed according to the rules adopted for these, and that the rules are followed. Another fact we have to live with is that in our organisational community there are opinions and attitudes that we can't always fully agree with, and that we can have different attitudes to. We probably have to show a lot of tolerance for that. Over time, there have been various political movements in Norway that have shown support and sympathy for regimes abroad that have stood far from what has been normal of the values we stand for, so I can't stand here today and say that it's necessarily wrong. However, the question is what criteria underpinning such support and what the organisations have to do. As long as they follow Norwegian law and are on the inside of it, I believe that there must be a high threshold for them to have the opinions they would like.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e422	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e425	I understand that the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to stay standing, and that the Minister of Justice is quick to jump down when we talk about this, but I think I want the Minister of Justice back up. I'll try to stick to the matter. I hope that no reconciliation agreement has been concluded with Eritrea, too, because it is a cruel regime with which we are now going to conclude a return agreement. The council has no scruples about sending people back to this regime. This applies to both those who have been politically active while they have been there, and not least to those who fight the regime while they are here. In the past, UDI, after government notice, has seen it as not relevant that people have been politically active while living in Norway. We've seen cases where people have ended up in prison when they come home because of what they've done while they've been in Norway, and then UDI has replied that they'll be grateful for it. The question is, are we at all following up on what happens to those we send back? I've asked about it several times before in the case of Afghanistan, and now, when we cooperate with such regimes, the Council of State should at least make sure that you have a follow-up to what happens to those you send back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e436	We have a return agreement with Ethiopia. The basis on which it has been established and the possibilities for voluntary returns with the support of the Norwegian authorities have been identified for the first time – 15 March. Clearly, these are demanding situations, and matters, for the people involved, and there is some of the background to the individual treatment on which each case is based. The principles of legal certainty included in the handling of individual cases are also well known to the representative. Of course, we want the return agreement to work as intended, and also our dialogue with the authorities that the agreement should be able to work as it is supposed to work, it would be natural for us to keep track of the time that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e443	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e446	I have a question for the Minister of Justice and Defence. The TV 2 police survey has given rise to serious concerns. Yesterday, there was a shipment in which one of the police unit leaders was quite so sharp in their statements. This federal leader was not alone, because it turned out that 95 pst. by the federal leaders of the PF believe the same thing. Here some representatives of the government are mentioned by name and some others of the management of the Workers' Party are also mentioned. The claim of this federal leader was that preparedness and security in Norway were of such a nature that if people knew how bad it was, there would be a population uprising. This federal leader also claimed that the sitting government is covering up the reality. My first question to the Minister of Justice is: What comments does the Minister of Justice have on such allegations from the police and the federal leaders of the PF? Furthermore, I registered that the reply from the Minister of Justice in this connection yesterday was that one had to contact the Police Directorate to get any comments. My second question is therefore: when the PF police and federal leaders are so clear in their communications, is it the police directorate that is the chief responsible whose situation is described as such, or is it the Minister of Justice and the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e455	The debate on the reality of the fight against crime and its related efforts has been going on for many years. I actually know it back to the early 1990s. I'm very happy that we have a reinforced effort against crime. It now provides far stronger resources than it was at the time. I have great respect for the efforts of the Joint Police Association to combat crime and, of course, also to ensure that maximum resources are deployed to do this. We have a good cooperation with the police organizations. Of course, it is my responsibility to ensure that both resources are allocated to the sector and that they are used in the best possible way. My mandate is both to help strengthen preparedness, to assess the organisation and to increase resources in terms of the ministry's efforts. I am so lucky that I took over the job as Minister of Justice after someone who had worked successfully to secure the establishment – then I think about the police and the entire justice sector – increased resources, and the increase has been remarkable since 2005 at between 50 and 60 p.m. That being said, we still have major challenges. Of course, we're working on meeting the challenges we have, in the best possible way. 2011 was also a year that gave us a serious reminder that we have to work to strengthen preparedness, and that we still faced a crisis that makes it important to recognise that guarding against everything is also difficult. Of course, we will continue to come back to new measures in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e466	I thank you for your answer. It is true, as the Minister of Justice says, that the police have been given increased resources. But at the same time, all the new tasks that the police have been given over the last ten years, which have eaten up significant parts of the new resources, must also be included. I hear the Minister of Justice say we have a reinforced effort. Then it's strange that we're experiencing a decommissioning in 22 of the 27 police districts. Therefore, the description of reality becomes a problem when it comes to putting the effort in the right place and in the right area. We have recently learned that we have lower police coverage than ever. It has gone from 1.8 to less than 1.6 per 1000 inhabitants. We're going up to 2.2. It is felt that you do not accept reviews and that reviews are posted. Yesterday we received the Riksrevision report, which pointed out that there was an explanation rate of only 17 p.m. in the case of a gain crime. I will end by inviting the Minister of Justice to come to Stortinget, to the Progress Party and the opposition, to reach, if possible, a settlement that quickly draws a reality picture that we all agree on, and put resources in place immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e479	I agree that the police have many and important tasks, including new tasks. To solve these, it is important not just to have resources, but to ensure a balanced use of them. Then manning, new technology and equipment become important. We've discussed the police density per 1,000 people. It is, if we include all the officials at the Police College and in the special agencies – and I think that is important – at 1.61, and not below 1.6. Part of the discussion is also: What is the reality related to how strong a manpower we have? We've employed a larger number of civilians, we're increasing the recording at the Police College, we're doing a lot. It is also true that there was a report from the Riksrevision yesterday showing a lower percentage of clearance in terms of profitability. What came into the background is that we can still rejoice that the number of winning crimes is falling, and that prevention efforts are therefore beneficial.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e489	There will be three follow-up questions – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e492	The representative Sandberg describes the situation in the Norwegian police very precisely. That's also the impression we get in the Justice Committee when we travel around. I think there's a culture of fear in the Norwegian police. Officials are afraid to say clearly what they think the situation is. I think we've got a red tape of the country's police officers, which means they don't dare be honest about the situation either. Opinions from central spokesmen in the Workers' Party – what are you complaining about, we have given you so much money – also help to dampen that debate. Yesterday we received the National Auditor's report where the National Auditor says we cannot live with the situation we have in the Norwegian police. That's a pretty strong speech from the country's National Auditor. What will the Council of State do with this culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e501	I am aware that the opposition has not been paid to boast of the government's efforts, but I believe in fact that a number of good things are done in the justice sector and in the police, and not least of the many officials who do a decent job every day. I was worried when I heard that questions about fear culture came up. As I also said at the hearing of the Special Committee, this would be a natural topic to address at the next steering meeting with the Police Directorate. After the hearing, the e-mail exchange, as I understand it, has also been published, and the various police organizations in the Oslo police district have been requested. As far as I can see, there have been no comments from any of these organisations confirming the impression of fear culture in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e508	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e511	I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice remembers well and remembers the 1990s, because then we had far more visible policemen than we have now. This is all about fundamental issues; it's about security, and it's about trust. It's about security and trust that society is turning back. This trust is the Minister of Justice and the government in the process of building up. Most of those who have not had contact with the police have continued to trust. The National Audit Office’s report shows that those who actually have contact with the police are gradually losing confidence. It's different than, for example, in health services, where people who read the paper have less confidence in health services than those who have actually experienced parts of health services. So the question is, does the Council of State consider it problematic at all that trust in the police among people who meet them is about to sink? Does the Council of State, as a political leader, feel any self-reliance that manning goes down, and that further reductions are being announced in several police districts in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e520	The debate on more visible police was as visible in the 1990s as it is now. I doubt if we had a larger number of officials out in the streets that time. But when that's said, we share the perception that we need a more visible police in the streets now. I'm worried about the numbers coming up, which show that trust in the police is being reduced after a meeting with the service. I'm also sure the police themselves, both management and organizations, and it's natural that we're working even more on this. It is about different measures. It's also about the use of new technology, and it's about being able to give good answers quickly and decide if anything happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e527	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e530	The Council of State considered that the opposition was not paid to boast of government policy. It may be true, but at least we try to be honest sometimes. In this case, the opposition does not report. The chairperson of the Judicial Committee, in his introduction, said that there was just a leader of the Joint Association of Police who was out there and said so. The problem is, the police are very worried. This is the second time you have received such a clear message of concern on TV. For example, the National Audit Office's report shows that nine out of ten burglaries are not being solved. The worst is the situation where the perpetrator is known, and nothing is done. The police are less visible. From Agder it became e.g. There are increasing numbers of police officers injured because there are fewer people out in the situation, making it easier to argue. That means that the reality of the police and the state council is different. Can the state councils live with the police describing the situation as so bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e541	Both the representative Ropstad and I are followers of honesty. Then I expect the representative also to remember that I actually praised the representative from the Police Union to work both for increased resources and to make the many tasks that the service has. The discussion about reality – fortunately, we live in a country that is quite safe – has been a long discussion. I want close cooperation with the police, both with management and with organisations, on how to address the crime challenges in Norway, and how to work to be as prepared if anything happens. It reminds us not least of last year is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e548	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e551	The opposition has not been paid to paint black, but the position has not been paid to paint and cover, so the Minister of Justice can come back to the pulpit and get some of the questions in reply, because here there is a basis for asking more. In the evening post today, it is pointed out that a heavily congested operating management had to carry out the tasks of the crisis loss in the early days. It will be up to the July 22 Commission to clarify, but we already knew that there was a lack of operational capacity. That is why, in the hearing with the Council of State, I asked questions about the number of operatives available at the Central Police Station on a Friday afternoon. Then the Council of State said that in terms of staffing, it is up to the 22nd of July to assess it. When questions are asked about staffing in the other police districts of the country, the Council of State answers that it is the job of the individual police officer to assess. And if you ask questions about what can possibly be done to get these police officers to do a better job, it refers to the Police Directorate. In the meantime, there will be fewer policemen per capita. So over the last seven years, we've had a more unsafe society. Now I hope that the Council of State – without giving a lecture on the admission to the Police College ten years ago and without tying up a possible effect of the police reform in the future or an ICT project – can say something about what is her responsibility. What is the level of ambition of the Council of State in 2012 and 2013 in terms of police coverage, so that we do not recover even more from the common objectives set by the Storting? This was also the basis for the previous question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e561	As far as the resources of the police are concerned, I think we are concerned about it wherever we sit – both in government and at large. The nature of the priorities and the resources allocated for this purpose are well illustrated in budget proposal No. 1 and associated setting. It is the Police Directorate that allocates money to the individual districts, and then after a resource allocation model that is known. These tasks may vary. It will be the various police officers who assess how best resources can be used, but nevertheless within the framework of the priorities described in writing by both the Directorate and the Department, as well as what comes from government and big business. This system I think the representative Oktay Dahl is also well acquainted with. The challenges may differ in terms of time and geography. Some funds will always be set aside to solve specific challenges that need to be addressed in individual districts, which was most topical last year, and then for larger parts of the justice sector, not just for the police. Here, of course, there is also a special responsibility of both political management and the directorate to meet these challenges in the best possible way when they arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e570	The resource allocation system is well-known on the right. It is therefore all the more strange that, fortunately, party colleagues are notifying more money to Follo Police District, which is then in conflict with what the Council says in a way is the system of awarding. But it could be fun to know how much money you intend to give to Follo, perhaps what the other police districts will get extra, since you acknowledge, for Follo’s part, that you are struggling here – but there are other police districts that may be struggling even more. I would like to repeat the question: we are familiar with the budget decisions in Stortinget, which we have agreed to vote against or in favour of, but what kind of ambition does the Council of State have for the 2012 police coverage? What is in the budget now, which means that we get a higher – not lower – police coverage? We've been getting a gradual downsizing in the last year, that's what we're getting alerts from over 20 police districts already now. Within the system for which the Council of State is responsible, what causes the police coverage to increase during 2012 — not to go down, as the alerts suggest?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e577	It's a challenge to ensure sufficient qualified and trained police officers, we've had a lot of discussions about that, and we've also hired civilians in the department to solve tasks. It's not the 1990s admission to the police high school I'm talking about, but the recordings have increased in recent years. Follo has been given attention – political as well – for very many years. They have now been one of the pilots for reorganization, and it is a pleasure to be able to record that we can cover some of the increased costs they have had up front in the new model. It is, as a result of good political work, also increased resources to the police in 2012, which is also part of this year's Follo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e584	There will be three follow-up questions – first the representative Anders B. Werp.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e587	All the experience shows us that the security of society is closely related to the presence of the police. Police shall be present where the need is greater and where the need is greater. We saw this not least during the rape wave a few months ago, when we could read that the police staff was the lowest at the times of the day and at the times of the week when the rapes occurred. So my question to the Council of State – in the extension of the main question – is: What does the Council of State do to ensure the presence of the police when the need for security and security is greater?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e594	I agree with the representative that it is important to ensure that the police are there to handle the tasks they have, in the best possible way. It is both the Police Directorate and the individual districts that are closest to being able to do so in detail. Of course, it is about service regulation, and it is about how resources are prioritised between different sectors. I am very pleased that extra resources were deployed in Oslo months before Christmas. We had terrible assaults, and it created security in the city. It is also important to be competent. That's why both the Oslo Police District and the Department work with their own actions. We also work on an action plan against rape, as an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e601	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e604	I record that the Minister of Justice has only increased police coverage during the spontaneous Question Time – to 1.61. I hope it is not numerical – that more and more bureaucrats are now to be included in the police coverage – because the cross-political consensus on a coverage of 2 per 1 000 includes operational officials and women. But an interesting question is: Will the police coverage – under the same systems that we have used in the past to calculate coverage – be higher this year? That's the challenge for the Minister of Justice. I would like an answer as to whether the Minister of Justice believes that this year's budget will lead to an increase in coverage. Then I will repeat my invitation to the Minister of Justice. Can't she now sit down with the opposition – the Progress Party would like to be in charge of the invitation and make facilities for locations – so that we can try to find a description of reality that allows us to correct the measures correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e613	There were questions about the police coverage 1.61. That's the number I've been informed by the Police Directorate at the end of the year, when you include all the officials in the districts, at the Police College and in the special agencies. I think it's right to bring all of these, and not just bring those who serve in the districts. We have arranged for a higher number of officials this year. How it turns out on the police coverage is also about population growth. I am sure that the representative Sandberg and I will have the opportunity to take that discussion at the end of the year – whether we should see figures with downward trends. But the ambition must be that they're going up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e620	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – till the last follow-up question of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e623	As good seats we agreed to be fair. That's why I'm going to use the numbers for the state council. In 2008, there were 1.8 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants in Norway. So now, in 2012, it's 1.61 per 1,000 inhabitants. If the developments that this government has made continue, there will be 1.2 per 1 000 inhabitants in 2020 – if the same developments continue. If we're going to be honest, I think that in terms of the goal we've all agreed on for 2020, two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants, we should perhaps say whether it's realistic, and be completely honest here. That is why I ask the Council of State: Is the objective realistic? And if that's realistic, what are the annual ambitions ahead? What's the coverage in 2015? What does the Council of State think about the coverage in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e633	I'm very pleased with that question. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that there is a downward trend, and it has worried the government so much that we have doubled the recording to the Police College. So I'm going to be the first to express impatience – it takes time to train the students. We'll soon receive the first educated coals after the higher fixation. I believe that the target of a coverage of two per 1 000 in 2020 is realistic. This is something we will have to follow closely, and the government will of course also need to keep considering measures. How it turns out in the years ahead is also, as I mentioned, related to population growth. There may well be a growth that develops so that extra measures need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e642	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e654	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e669	‘With the Knowledge promise, good students were to be given the opportunity to embark on professional challenges beyond their own level in school. According to the Kommunal Report, only 45 municipalities offer such an offer to students in the 2011/2012 school year. What action will the Council of State now take to ensure school-leaving students, irrespective of their place of residence, a more challenging training offer and the same opportunity to take upper secondary courses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e681	The legislation we have today facilitates the provision of secondary education for students in upper secondary education in mathematics, English, foreign languages, natural sciences and social sciences. This was also particularly highlighted in the Youth Level Communication. There we pointed out that students who want to have major challenges in the field should be able to use the time allocated to the new electives, for example. to take courses from upper secondary education. So I want to make it better for schools to be able to offer this to students who want to have more to go after. Research shows that the most motivating thing for students who are particularly strong in the field is the possibility of faster progress in the fields. I would therefore like to extend the scheme of being able to take upper secondary education courses by also opening up the examination at an earlier stage than the 10th stage. This shall, however, be a matter for consultation, with a view to the entry into force of any amendments from 1 August of this year. The same opportunities shall also apply to students in private schools. It has been suggested that this should be a voluntary offer for those students who have the strongest performance in the field. I notice that there is an increased interest in municipalities and counties to facilitate local solutions and offer this to the students, especially because it is now very clear that this can be something you are doing in the polls. The Education Directorate will also ask municipalities in the consultation of the Regulation what is needed to stimulate more schools to offer the scheme to their students. The representative Aspaker points out that this offer must apply to all students regardless of their place of residence, and I fully agree with that. That's why we've been working together with the ICT Center and the Math Center to develop a virtual school in science mathematics, just to make it possible for it to be an online offer to students who need some more challenges in mathematics. Work has started and will be tested as early as 2013. If we get interesting experience from this, this is a possible way to make sure that those students who go to high school who are not close to high school, and who are thus able to easily follow education or instruction there, can get more tailor-made in relation to the starting point they themselves have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e698	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am very concerned. If we assume that we have 60,000 students in a year's school, we have 180,000 in the youth class, and of them, at the base of 1,000 – that is, at the base of 1,000 out of 180 000 – who now receive such an offer. In Oslo and Akershus, it's 668 out of 956. The other counties have less than 42, and four counties have less than five students who get such an offer. This suggests that either you do not take out the responsibility or the department is far too little ‘hands on’. When we dealt with the school announcement in Stortinget, the Right suggested that for good students, the same clarification should be given to the training law as one has for weak students in the case of special education, that one should have a «right to», and that a solution should be found for funding in the case of this student group. Doesn't the Council of State see that there are many unsolved questions here that can make you fail to do so in most of the municipalities in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e705	That is why, in the consultation round, we also ask what kind of views the hearing bodies have in order for us to succeed in getting more students to do so. What's a challenge when we're going to organise this way is that Norway looks quite different. It is clear that in the Oslo area, where there is a short way between high school and high school, there is a lot of room for speeding up this type of work. It will also be in many other larger cities. But I am also concerned that students who live in more pig-grown areas should have the opportunity to get that kind of offer. Therefore, just online solutions are interesting in that context. I fully agree that under 1000 students on a national basis are too low in relation to this. But the first thing we think about in the target group for these students is those who come to the 9th and 10th stages, and who need more professional challenges. I already notice that there is a lot more interest around high school and in the counties to get a good cooperation, and I expect this to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e716	I find that we have just had the high school message, but this right for good students came with the knowledge promise. Now there is a Swedish Minister of Knowledge who represents a government that has been responsible for the implementation of the 2006 Knowledge promise. So in six years now, two counties have no students, More and Romsdal have zero, Buskerud has two students. It's so weak that you can't explain that high school and high school are so far apart that it's not possible to get these kinds of connections. My challenge to the Council of State is: If you really think that the common school is what students should look for in Norway in a way, if you really think that we should have an equivalent training offer, how good should students have exactly the same right to adapted training that weak students have via their rights to special education in the Training Act, does the Council not see that the training law has great weaknesses today when good students have no legal basis that gives them the opportunity to meet their equivalent training?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e723	It's not special education we're talking about in this context. I have great faith that municipalities and counties are seeing that problem, and that they are becoming increasingly familiar with it, so that they will put themselves in line with the legislation that is in place, and with the offers we are now going to give to students in high school in the future, in order to develop this offer. I share the impatience that the representative of Aspaker has in relation to the fact that we will succeed better in that area, but I am absolutely sure that the attention around in School-Norway and in municipalities and counties is much greater in this area than before. I would like to stress that this also applies to high-level students, whom we want to have the opportunity to, for example. following a course at a university or a university, precisely because we know that progress – that is, being able to go further professionally with several challenges – is what keeps the motivation up for these students. And motivation is just the main theme of the entire childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e734	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Glamdals region in Hedmark was the last split place in the NäringsNM 2011. In municipal terms, several hedemark municipalities came to the places around the number. Four hundred. What, in the opinion of the Council of State, does this region and some municipalities of hedeland do wrong when there is so little economic development that it is ranked so poorly, and what will the Council of State contribute to strengthening the economic development of both Hedmark and the rest of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e743	The industry in Hedmark has a large proportion of industries that are currently in strong change or decline throughout the country. At the same time, the county is geographically far away from the areas that are natural sites for the industries that have the strongest growth in the economy today. So I'm thinking, for example, in oil, maritime and marine industries and in several of the new service industries. In a ranking that the representative Bredvold sees, some will necessarily come first, while others will come down a bit on the list. That these do something wrong, as the representative Bredvold wants me to say, I don't want to go along with it. The position on the list depends, of course, on the criteria used, and the determinations made by the different municipalities to score on these criteria. As I know the Glamdal region and Hedmark counties, I would say, on the contrary, that they are doing a great deal of right in their work for a positive economic development. The decisive thing for all developments is that industry is changing and taking care of its own potential. From the public point of view, we can facilitate both through targeted instruments and through general framework conditions. Here I will mention the means of working through both Innovation Norway and SIVA. When it comes to framework conditions, I would specifically like to mention the differentiated employer charge as much of the Glaamdal region as a new asset. On request, KRD has also granted the county council additional shields for the conversion of business into Kongsvinger. I know that there is good and reliable cooperation between business and local and regional governance in Hedmark. In the last six months, this has been reflected in the fact that SIVA has established three business areas in the Glamdal region and an industrial incubator in Kongsvinger. This is a tool aimed at knowledge-based workplaces. There is no overnight conversion of a society that has been largely based on traditional industry, into new industries where knowledge and human resources in many ways become more important. From the Department's side, we'll do a lot of work to follow up on how to better spread the knowledge-based workplaces. I hope Hedmark will also benefit from this effort. I have seen with my own eyes examples from the county that make me overestimate that Hedmark is on the right track in his bet, and I have great faith that both the Glamdal region and other municipalities in the county will be able to climb higher on the list of future nutrition NM.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e758	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There's probably a lot of ways to do this, and the state council may have been inside of some of them. What we are struggling with in Hedmark is that we are a border county to Sweden, among other things. Limits Warmland to us. Only because of the commercial leakage there are 2000 Swedish jobs guaranteed. Then you can ask yourself why you have a commercial leak. Of course, there are many reasons for this – it may be the service offer, it may be the supply of goods, but it may also be because goods are cheaper because we have a lot of taxes and taxes in Norway, and then you travel to Sweden and act. Something else could be traffic, as the Council of State was not inside at all. Among other things, we have rv. 20, which is now soon to be rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox I would like to hear a little about what the Council of State thinks about a relatively high level of taxation in Norway versus Sweden, and would also like to hear about transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e769	It would be a little long if I were to take a ruling on the Norwegian tax system. But that border trade can have meaning, one cannot refuse. At the same time, there are border regions that are cutting higher in the same NM as the one referred to in the question. So I think the important thing in the Glam Valley and other regions, whether they're border regions or other labour market regions, is to define their own strength. One must define what is good, define the human and natural natural resources, not least make use of the opportunities offered by Innovation Norway, the SIVA and others — a good cooperation with the county municipality is also an important part — to lift itself. It has been shown that there are future solutions in the regions that will be able to compete in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e776	I thank you for a really better answer, because it's about lifting yourself up. But we have something called "familyman", which does not give the inhabitants of Hedmark the opportunity to lift themselves up. We have natural resources, for example. the possibility of running snowmobiles, but there the county states no, it can be a predatory policy that is not in line with the wishes of those living in Hedmark – and mass such. So lifting yourself is important. But at the same time as you say you have to lift yourself, you have to give an opportunity to lift yourself up. Many feel that the county is a strong brake block. It may be a case of creating a cab, for example: Often it's about quality of life and living, and if you get the two things, I think you also get a business that works. Therefore, the county must be more flexible and say yes to much more than he does. In this way, we can get a business life that promises itself, and a population that promises itself, and that said, not least get the quality of life and the way of living.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e783	I can tell you a lot of what Bredvold says here. This is why the government has also been busy putting in place a good predatory settlement, which should be clear when it comes to what the county council is going to do, and what the predators are going to do – the people who are elected to that work. We have been busy supporting the nature-based industries in both Hedmark and the rest of the country, precisely because we see that either it relates to work before tourism, short-term food, or other nature-based jobs, it is a grob for them. We also see it in the business gardens of the Glam Valley, and I myself have met some exciting entrepreneurs in the Odalen. One of them was in my founding council, and he has developed twintips and exports to 14 countries – exciting. Trusting in your own resources and supporting those who want something is an important recipe, and then get a few obstacles or roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e794	My question goes to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The House’s investment grant legislation for private hospitals makes it practically impossible for private owners with an intermunicipal offer to receive the grant, because neither the host municipality nor the purchaser’s municipalities will guarantee the amount under the legislation. The Council of State will develop legislation to take account of this issue so that it is possible to receive the grant for, for example: Does Nina’s Sykhemjem sister in Jevnaker, when there are users from several municipalities, are the signals in the Cooperation Reform and Intercommunal Cooperation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e803	Local authorities are responsible for providing day-to-day health and care facilities to people in need of care services. The investment initiative is a tool for municipalities to renew and expand the provision of day-to-day care facilities. Therefore, the municipalities are able to look for investment grants from the House Bank and have to assess whether there is a need for increased development and modernisation of hospitals and nursing homes. The municipalities themselves know their needs for day-to-day care. The investment initiative was changed last year by the ability to make contributions to non-profit institutions serving households. At the same time, it was opened that municipalities could also receive support for care facilities that are established and run by other actors, both non-profit and commercial. The municipalities are thus free to choose whether to build and operate care facilities themselves or whether to purchase, in whole or in part, the services of voluntary and non-profit organisations, private care companies or others. When the municipality purchases services, this shall be done under normal business conditions and the public supply and public service rules shall be followed. At the heart of the government is that the municipality has to dispose of the places for 30 years. I refer to Prop. 65 S for 2010–2011, Strengthening investment support for nursing homes and sick homes, which was treated in Stortinget last spring. The change in the investment incentive rules is a adaptation to the overriding legal framework of the public procurement and state aid rules. These rules are firm. The investment incentive rules are now also adapted to local authorities’ responsibilities under health and care legislation. In the case of Sister Nina’s Sykhjem and others who provide intermunicipal care, it will be the municipalities that buy care places, which have to look after the House Bank for assistance. In that case, the investment cost and the investment risk will be included in the price agreed by the parties to the service provision. The government also increased last year's rate of return and disbursed the priorities of the counties of which municipalities are to be remunerated, and the distribution of frames between the housing banking regions and the counties. All in all, the changes in the scheme have given municipalities greater room for manoeuvre in establishing a right of future care. The changes ensure greater local self-government, and I am sure that they will also provide good solutions around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e816	In my time I had a written question to the Council of State, and I felt that the answer was so bad that I thought the Council of State would not quite understand it. So I want to have a discussion here today. This answer is actually a review of the previous answer, which I believe the Council of State does not quite see the consequence of. This is a solution-oriented question to the Council of State where an inter-municipal hospital feels that they are not receiving the investment grant that no one opposes them. But they don't get it because the House Bank and the Ministry of Local Affairs haven't really thought about it, because there are so few examples of this type of nursing home. When they will then extend from 34 places to approx. 50 places, no one has thought that intercommunal hospitals are no municipalities responsible for 30 years. Thus, they need a special help in the Ministry of Local Affairs and in the House Bank, which has not been solved so far. The consequence is that the hospital does not get the extension they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e823	As I see it, there is nothing in the way that the cooperating municipalities can have the means to expand their supply, but then they must also commit themselves to using the places. It should also be a certainty for the investment that one is sure that the places are used, which I am absolutely sure they will be, with the growth we see in the number of older people. So the reason is a relationship only between the House Bank and the municipality. In this case, it is the municipalities that can buy care places in cooperation, and it is those who have to search the House Bank for help. I'm busy not putting obstacles in the way of smooth solutions, and I'm very much for intercommunal cooperation. So to the extent that there's a case here that we have to look at, I'm also willing to do it, if there's something. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e830	I also feel that there should be a willingness to do this, especially in the ministry, which also makes the rules for the House Bank, because the Council of State says that there is nothing to prevent this hospital from receiving investment grants. I agree. The problem, as I ask the Council of State to take seriously, is that a municipality like Jevnaker, who has full medical coverage, says that they do not need this home, but it has existed since the 1950s. The municipality of Gjerdrum, the municipality of Ringerijke and the municipality of Oslo are major buyers of services, but none of them can guarantee for 30 years to be responsible for the investment grant, because – as the council also says – the law on public acquisitions also applies to the purchase of private health homes, for a period of one, two, three, four and five years. Thus, none of the municipalities that buy the services have the opportunity or the desire to do so. Then my question to Navarsete is: Will the Council of State ensure that the House Bank and the Ministry of Local Affairs together find a solution, so that this hospital and others can solve this problem instead of making a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e837	I hope that this council is aware of being solution-oriented and wants to find good solutions. I am going to have a meeting with the House Bank today on a completely different matter, but I will take this issue with me into that meeting and give the House Bank the task of looking at what might have to be done to resolve these kinds of issues. So I hope we can find a smooth solution to that, because I think everyone is concerned that both this hospital and the corresponding hospitals that have an intercommunal character should have the possibility to expand their business. It's as far as I can go, but I hope it shows a positive will at least to try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e848	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The discussion about a possible future prison in Lødingen has been going on for many years. As far as the undersigned is aware, the reconciliation queue has increased again, and the needs for ordinary settlements and custody facilities are therefore still present. Former State Council Knut Storberget and State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and Defence have visited the Lødingen several times without any decision being made. When does the Council of State expect a final decision to be made?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e857	The Ministry of Justice has entrusted the central administration of criminal justice with the task of drawing up an overall capacity plan with a unit structure for prisons and voluntary care agencies. The plan shall assess how the capacity of criminal services should be put together to meet future capacity needs and to facilitate the implementation of penalties in accordance with the intentions of St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08 Punishment that works — less crime — safer societies, presented on 26 September 2008. It shall also be assessed where units should be located, inter alia. the subsidiarity principle and the residence of the prisoners and the size of the units should be in order to ensure a good level of content in the implementation of the penalties. In addition, an assessment shall be made of the structural state of the units and how prisons should be designed to meet the requirements of modern criminal execution. The structure of the Northern Region, including Midre Hålogaland, will be assessed in the work on the plan. As part of this work, State Building has carried out an investigation into a possible prison offer at Nes fort. The current State Secretary, Terje Moland Pedersen, and representatives from State Building were on an inspection at Nes Fort on 3 November 2011. Following the inspection, State Building was commissioned to conduct a revised feasibility study assessing the possibility of rapid reconstruction of parts of Nes for prison purposes and estimates of their art consequences. The Ministry received the revised feasibility study for evaluation on 10 January of this year. I would like to return to the establishment of a prison offer, if necessary. Finally, I can say that it is a happy trend that the housing queue was descending towards the end of 2011. However, this also requires sustained and systematic efforts to meet increased challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e870	I thank the Council of State for its response, which is reasonable as expected. I'm recording that the reconciliation line is going down. Then we hope that it happens because of lower crime, not because of other things. But I'm going to lie that bit, even if it could have been a debate in itself. I think, out of respect for those who are initiators in the Lødingen, the owners of the Nes fort, the municipality and others in the region, that a final answer must soon be available. This is a matter that has been going on for a long time, it should not surprise me if it is nearly ten years. So I want to know what the council thinks is an acceptable time to keep people at an arm's length. It has something to do with respect too. There's no doubt that the Storing and the Government can swing around and be quite competent the other way, if they've decided for it. On previous questions, to the Navarsete State Council, it was said that one can be solution-oriented and find solutions. I hope that the government is as creative and as clear in this case, so that at least you get a final clarification, of respect for those who have invested, and of respect for those who live there, since you are offering to be a possible tool for criminal care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e879	I very much appreciate the commitment both from the representative and from the municipality. It is important to ensure good decisions in this area and, of course, good decisions require a good basis for both the places needed, the content of the compensation, the geographical location and, of course, the cost side must also be thoroughly investigated. Now came the opportunity study, which Statsbyggen has been commissioned to do on the basis of the visit of former State Secretary Moland Pedersen. Now it's only a few days since this came to the ministry, but it gives us a good, more concrete basis to make the assessments and make the decisions that this area needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e886	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. This means that in some ways there is no excuse — to use such a concept — not to conclude. There is a need for facts in criminal justice, a review of the economic status and the challenges to implement it if you decide to do so. What remains now is simply to make a political decision, if I understood the Council of State correctly. As regards the conditions for criminal and economic protection, the Council of State has explained their existence there. So we must make a political decision. Then the question is quite simple. When can you expect the Ministry of Justice at the Council of State to come to the Stortinget and say yes or no to anything like that? Can we expect it to be revised since we now have facts on the table, or is it too short a time? Or can we count on getting it to the harvest, as part of the draft budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e893	As I said, this potential study will also serve as a basis for the overall assessment of the capacity now being made in the criminal justice system. This is a plan intended to be available during this six-month period. And of course, we'll come back to where it's right to add any extensions, what kind of place this is in that case, and with the associated allocation needs. I'll be careful to promise more when this happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e911	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e918	I would like to address a question to the Minister of Culture: ‘Responsibilities and vulnerability have been high lately. Our society, with great dependence on technology and tools, is vulnerable. During the storm Dagmar was large parts of South Hedmark without electricity, telephone or Internet connection for almost one day. The NRK Radio was the only way to get information, but listening to the NRK gave the impression that it was only the West that was hit. What role does the Council of State see that the NRC should play to meet the information needs of the whole country in a preparedness context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e927	The NRK P1 radio channel is defined as a standby channel. Under the Broadcasting Act, the authorities have the possibility to send important messages to the population via NRK P1. The extremity in the 2011 space Christmas resulted in errors on 87 main transmitters and converters. In some cases, the outcome lasted no longer than one minute. In other cases, the signals were gone for several days. The longest outcomes occurred on small transmitters covering between 40 and 100 people. The longest outcome on a main transmitter in More and Romesdal lasted a little over a day and a half. I do not have any information that South Hedmark was affected by the results of radio or television transmission faults. On the other hand, the main transmitter on Tron in Northern Hedmark fell out for just under five hours. I stress that I do not have an overview of any power cuts in South Hedmark that might have put the radio and television sets in the individual household out of play. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has overall responsibility for coordinating preparedness in Norway. The Ministry of Justice and Security has already set up the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness — DSB — and the Post and Telecommunications Authority to assess the vulnerability of key public electronic communications networks. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has asked the DSB as part of the project to take an assessment of the consequences of the extreme weather of Dagmar in December 2011. The DSB has asked the NRK for information on the consequences of extreme weather and the importance it had for broadcasting. The NRC report will include information on the management of outcomes and any need for action to ensure that the NRC can fulfil its societal tasks in crisis situations. I believe that it is most appropriate to await the report of the DSB and the Post and Telecommunications Authority before drawing any conclusions on the future role of the NRK and the radio channel P1 in the information preparedness. For the sake of order, I would like to stress that I have no influence on the editorial coverage of extreme weather. It is the broadcaster who decides, within the general framework of the NRK poster and the statutes, how such events are covered. This is in accordance with the provisions on editorial freedom in the broadcasting law and the law on editorial freedom in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e942	I have a lot of understanding that the editorial poster will apply, and I also have a lot of understanding that the Council of State cannot have an overview of individual radios in individual homes. That was not what the question was about, so I think maybe the question was a little misunderstood, for that...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e947	The government takes all criticism very seriously. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e952	Now the presidents are giving the word in this room. No one's taking the floor. The Council of States should be absolutely aware of that. The Gundersen will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e955	I think the question was simply misunderstood – especially when I hear that the NRK P1 is defined as an emergency channel. So there were 21,472 households in southern Hedmark without electricity. It was quite strange to sit at my home, Flisa, and see that the entire Glåmdal district became black. And we heard nothing. The radio was in operation, so it was not that P1 and NRK were out of function, but they had simply not discovered that the whole South Hedmark was out of power, the Internet or any other connection, and then – in an emergency context – I actually believe it is a government council's responsibility to ensure that those signals arrive at the NRK at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e960	We need to have a discussion about this, but it's not my job to influence how the NRK covers extreme weather. The attention was probably the most in the West. It was probably not the same attention in the media around us that was hit by power cuts in the East, which I expect the representative Gundersen – and also me at Jessheim – was hit by. The situation was probably not viewed as so serious in the regions where we came from. But it is clear that you can always discuss the editorial coverage of the NRK, and that can be the initiative of Gundersen and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e968	I hope the Council of State can look at this with some seriousness, because the whole of South Hedmark was without the Internet and electricity and any other connection for 24 hours. Many were unconnected for an entire week. It's clear it has something to do with a sense of security, and the NRK was the only channel that was up to signal to people when you could get the power back, when you could expect things to be maintained and returned to normal. I believe that when the NRK P1 is defined as an emergency channel, there must actually be an instruction that you should not forget most of the country and focus only on the West. I got a call to NRK after approx. 20 hours, because then we got the mobile network back, and got them to notice that the whole of South Hedmark was without power. Then it came on the first news dispatch afterwards. So there was simply an obvious failure in the information somewhere that made you not aware of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e975	I expect that the NRK always has discussions about its coverage, as they have in all other matters, but it is not my job to instruct NRK such as some representatives – without mentioning their name – that I should do in relation to children's television programmes. I encourage the representative Gundersen and others to take the initiative that the NRK review how they cover that kind of event, but I don't want to impose on the NRK what kind of coverage they have in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e980	The President would point out that it is unacceptable to interrupt representatives when they keep their posts, and I would recommend the Huitfeldt Council to interfere with the Stortinge's regulations on how the meetings in this Chamber are concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e994	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1001	My question goes to the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church: «According to the newspapers of Our Land and Glamdalen, the Minister of the Church has decided that Våler in Hedmark must not build a new church on the fireplace. On 16 January this year, Ringerijks Blad wrote that the Labour Committee of the Church Council of Ringerijk will have clarification from the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church before the issue of the construction of the new Hönefoss church is published, whether it is possible to build a new church on the fireplace, or whether the department has laid new leadership. Is it so that the Council of State believes that she is better able to decide where the churches should be than those who use and finance them?"
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1010	Violent church in Hedmark was completely damaged in fire on 29 May 2009. The process of building a new church has created a broad commitment to the community. Building a new church is an extensive and time-consuming work. It is important that the planning of a new church building is based on the needs of the church. The process must be driven by local church democracy. To return a church after a fire is extra demanding. Many have strong feelings about their church, and that's good. The Church Act provides for the establishment of a church to be approved by the Ministry. The law has provisions that require both the process of building a new church and the church building itself. The meeting, consisting of all the members of the parish entitled to vote in the parish, shall deliver an opinion on the inclusion of the church. The local church authorities involve the Council's architectural adviser at an early stage in a construction project. The Council of Churches advises both on the choice of plots and on the design of the church building in order to make it appropriate and functional. The Church Council has been in the process of Våler. The Church Council sends an application to the Ministry when the plans for the new church building are clear, together with a recommendation from the Bishop and the Council of Churches concerned. As early as October 2010, the Church Council decided that a new church should be built on new land. There is, however, disagreement in the community of Våler as to whether the church should be repatriated on the fireplace or on a new floor. When the dispute about the land selection persisted, and in order to advance the case, Hamar the bishop asked in November last year the department to clarify whether the church could be built on the fireplace. The church council was consulted and recommended that the church be built on a new plot. A new plot would provide a fully-fledged and functional church building in Våler. Based, inter alia, on: I have stated in my letter of reply to the bishop that the matter is now under way, I cannot see that a new church in Våler can be built on the fireplace. I have therefore asked Våler to complete the work with the church on a new plot that is now in progress. The Ministry will normally decide on an application for the inclusion of a new church in Våler once we have received the application from the Joint Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1021	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm also not aware that it uses a lot of consensus, for example. that we want to build the new church, but that it is a major challenge to agree on the location of the building – so I have all respect for it. It is now a local responsibility to decide where a new church should be built or repatriated – but it is also important that a democratic process be carried out in such cases, so that everyone feels that they are heard and taken seriously. I also have great respect for the Council of State, but in this case I am actually skeptical, because according to our country, the Council of State intervened before the department had received some formal application from the Church of Våler. My question is then whether the Council of State intends to start with central government wherever there is disagreement about where the church is to be located, or will she encourage good local democratic processes and at least wait until she receives a formal application before she makes a statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1030	There has been a local democratic process in Våler where both the community meeting and the council have gone in to build a church on new land. It is true that we have received an enquiry from the Bishop of Hamar, who has been submitted to the Council of Churches, which is the democratically elected highest body in the Norwegian Church, where we were recommended that the church should be built on a new site – based on the information now available. I have responded to that enquiry and said that I share that view. It is demanding to build a new church on old fireplaces both because it is often difficult to get good construction processes locally, as there are existing graves close up and because it is important to get church buildings that are universally designed. But in this process, all the church bodies have spoken out, and I have followed up the decisions made in the church organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1035	I thank you again for the answer, but here it turns out that an application has been sent about which there has been a great deal of disagreement in church hygiene. The Church is in the middle of a process of democracy. In this context, it is very important that the local church administration carry out this, especially in matters of such importance to the congregation. In this case, I would actually have thought that it would have been better if the council made a good proposal for the process on this, than so clearly to dismiss such a large part of the Våler congregation's wish. According to our country, the reason for the statement was that she would help society further after a long split in the church case. The question is whether the Council of State has registered this, and whether the assembly has been helped to achieve more consensus and to stand together more closely after her statements have been made. If not – what will she do to restore the unity of the parish?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1042	I've been visiting Våler, I've been looking at the plots there, I've been at meetings with a lot of the implicated. There's a high level of conflict in Våler, and I think it's important to move on. That is why I very much support the work done by the democratic bodies in the Våler congregation, where the assembly has given its opinion, where the Joint Council has taken its decision. There is now an architectural competition, based on the decisions taken in the Church Council. That's why I think it's important to keep working along the democratic decisions that have been taken, to continue the architectural competition that has been announced on the basis of the decisions that have been taken. That is my contribution to this matter. Then I hope that everyone who participates in church democracy in Våler is working to move forward and accept the decisions that have been made in this matter. So that's the majority I've supported in my statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1053	My question goes to the Minister of Labour: «A 37-year-old woman who is a pre-school teacher must quit her profession as she has a disability that affects hearing. She resigned her position in consultation with a doctor. After one year she is still on redundancy pay, but has been notified by Nav that these will soon stop. She's a single-parent for three children. Nav has not managed to find alternative work for her, but recommends her instead of applying for disability benefit. What does the Council of State think about this matter against the government's job strategy?»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1062	One of the main objectives of the government is to facilitate the widest possible participation in working life with its skills and workforce. It is important for individuals and for society, and it is the very basis of the Nav reform. The basic reason for Nav's work is to assume the individual's opportunity to participate in the labour market. Anyone who wants to get into work has the right to assess their need for assistance. The assessment of need or work capacity shall determine whether it is appropriate and necessary to put in place job-oriented measures to get to work. This is the assessment of the Employment and Welfare Act. The purpose of the government’s employment strategy for people with disabilities is to provide more opportunities for getting into work. The job strategy emphasises the need to strengthen regular labour market policy efforts with targeted instruments to compensate for different types of disability. It has been important to develop tools to help both jobseekers and employers reduce their uncertainties and risks. The emphasis has been on developing new follow-up and follow-up actions. I can't assess what would have been the best solution in this particular case. In general, redundancy benefits will be provided for as long as it is necessary for a person to carry out a defined activity with a view to getting into work but, as a general rule, not more than four years. We want more people with disabilities to work. For some, disability pension can be the right thing to do. Before granting a disability pension, all possibilities for getting into work must be tested. This is clearly signaled to the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1075	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, this case is not simple. There are many more, and I'm constantly having questions about this challenge. In Bergen's Official Journal on Friday 27 January this year, one can also read about a new case where a person actually had to give up, and had to do this with a job himself. Of course, one has responsibility. But in this case, he says it went too slow at Nav, it became too cumbersome, and it became time-consuming. There's a clear speech, and here you can see how the shoe prints. When we also know that the arrow points the wrong way when it comes to the increase in new deformities, especially for those under 30 years, this is serious and something we have to do with. My question to the Council of State is again: What kind of resources and what quality will a bet against Nav, which will take care of all these things that we don't want to cross over on disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1084	The whole system of redundancy payments and the need to have a work capacity assessment are some of the main means of seeing the individual and the follow-up to it. In Nav's 2012 twist and in the steering paper provided by the Department of Nav, we are clear that now there have been years of working with the performance management. Now it's just the follow-up of the individual who's going to be the main priority of Nav's strategy in the future, and now we've been working on a new strategy for this. In addition, we have a very high level of action in Norway complemented by this job strategy. Many instruments are in place. Then I want to say that it is not necessarily that every time a person does not get to work, Nav has failed – Nav is going to get better, but it is not necessarily that way. It must be a working life that accepts people, and it must be motivated. If that's the way the representative mentions, that a person has got a job himself, it's a pleasure, and then it shows that that person can do it himself. It's not given that it's always Nav that fails when we don't get people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1093	I thank you again for your answer. The council itself states that there must be a working life there. In this context, we know that the strategy also includes government and municipal administration leading by example and assigning people with disabilities. My question to the Council of State is: How many added with some form of disability that is in fixed settings and/or trainee settings does the Council of State have in its department?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1102	I fully agree that it is important for the State to take the lead as a good example in the same way as the private sector. We just have to make sure that the working life in general has a different attitude towards people with disabilities, and I'm systematically working on that. The job strategy and work on it is one of the most important tools we have. In concrete terms, how many people I have in my department – I think it's one person. If there isn't one person, I'll fix it, but I think it's one person. I am very concerned that we should be clear in the guidance signals that we need to open up to a greater extent – including within the state – and that the state takes greater responsibility. I'll do that in full. But the most important thing for me, as I said, is that if we're going to get this done and make it work, we need to get a completely different attitude in relation to people with disabilities in general in society. This applies to both the public and private sectors. I think we share a common goal about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1114	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy questions: ‘In today’s business life on 19 January 2012, we could read that staff in Statoil are not afraid to tell us about critical issues in fear of destroying their careers. In a recent report prepared by the IRIS Research Foundation, it is presented in particular: that Statoil has fundamental criticism challenges, as well as the lack of systems to respond to concerns messages. How will the Council of State, as the company’s principal owner, contribute to Statoil’s having satisfactory systems and to the ability of employees to feel the right to be informed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1123	I can assure the representative Eriksson that security will be a high priority for all companies active on the Norwegian continental shelf. In my meetings with the management of Statoil, this is an important topic that the company itself has also underlined that they are very concerned about. The representative of Eriksson shows, among others: to an IRIS research report referred to in Today’s Business Life on 19 January 2012. I have recorded that in this article, there are claims that Statoil has challenges to deal with criticism and to find effective management systems in the organisation. I also record that Statoil in the same newspaper version states that the company needs to improve in some areas. Statoil indicates that extensive efforts have already been undertaken to strengthen the company as an organisation and thus also to prevent a new Gulfak incident. One of the measures, according to the company, is to make managers more susceptible to criticism. It follows from company law that the administration, including the organisation of the company, is the responsibility of the board of directors and the company's day-to-day management. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of management to facilitate good cooperation with employees and their organisations. It is therefore outside my role as representative of the State that owns Statoil to have views on internal guidelines and practices in the company. However, I expect Statoil to take the necessary steps to correct situations that do not comply with laws and regulations and the company's own standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1132	I thank the Council of State for the answer and also refer to the report and what the Council of State itself has in mind in its answer, that Statoil has said that they are going to review things, they are going to improve, and there is going to be a more open culture in the organisation – quote from the Daily Business, where the Statoil management says their goal is to learn from the Gullfak event. This is well and good. The same was said after the launch on the Snorre platform in 2004. I find that Statoil has not learned anything from previous mistakes. In other words, they now have to show that there is consistency between word and action. The employees' warning protection must, in my opinion, be real, and the Council of State also points out that it is outside his area in relation to the specific system things to be followed up by management and administration. But I'll probably believe, and I challenge the Council of State, that it must be important to make sure that the systems work well and that national policies are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1137	It is quite right that it is important for me to ensure that the level of safety, health, the environment and safety considerations are well cared for by all companies on a Norwegian base. Then, of course, we have a special relationship with Statoil as we own a large stake in the company. In the conversations we have with the company, we of course address health, environment and safety issues and present our expectations about high standards. But it is important to distinguish between the role you have as a shareholder and the role you have as a legislative authority and regulator – there are different roles. I don't believe on a general basis that's the basis for saying that Statoil hasn't learned. I think that Statoil, like any other organization, is in a continuous process to get better. It's about Statoil, and it's about us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1144	Thanks for the answer. I just want to refer to the report that was mentioned, where it appears that Statoil's management is indebted to employees when something has gone wrong. Whether it is right, or whether it is wrong, I will not decide, but it is equally serious for employees to experience it that way. It testifies, at least at my discretion, that there is an unculture that should come to life. I will challenge the Council of State to ensure that time and money do not go on chords with certainty, and that satisfactory systems are put in place to ensure that the incoming messages of concern are received. At the same time, I note that this report points to an unculture and that it is a ‘small kingdom’ in the company. Can the Council of State say that there is a ‘small kingdom’ and an unculture in the company? If he cannot cancel it, how will he come to life such a regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1153	I can assure the representative that we focus heavily on HMS questions on the entire base. In order to succeed, it is important to have good organisations, to have good interaction between management and workers, and to have systems at all. I dare say that there is a great deal of emphasis on all parts of the Norwegian base. Then I also think that we, obviously, have not come to the end. It's not like we've become so competent, some of us, as we can become, and many have a continuous potential for improvement. Of course, we expect Statoil to take it out. We expect Statoil to comply with Norwegian laws and regulations, and to comply with all the requirements imposed by different authorities. Of course, we also expect to learn from events continuously, so that dangerous situations, like those on Gullfak, do not repeat themselves, and that we build on the experience we have, and get a better level of security in the future than we have in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1164	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘Due to new noise rules, the defence raises objections to all developments in Europe’s centre in the light of the noise emitted by the euro area’s shooting and practice fields. This is an unsustainable situation for the municipality of Evje and Hornne which, of course, wants further development. The defence has estimated cost mitigation measures at 56 million. kr and considers a cost sharing to be reasonable. Why should a municipality that does not receive any income, but only disadvantages with the shooting area, pay large amounts for this, and is it not more right that the polluter pay?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1173	It is up to us all to ensure that Norway has a good defence, and the defence will affect different municipalities in the country differently. Some are exposed to significant aircraft noise, some receive noise from shooting paths and some from frequent exercise activity. This isn't exactly equally distributed, but it has been, and it will still be. At the Evjemo, there has been activity since 1912. So you can celebrate 100 years of activity at Evje, and the defense still needs this field of fire. I understand that Evje and the municipality of Hornne have a challenge that the workplaces have largely disappeared, while the shooting continues, but it is such that this is a field of fire, among other things. used by Madlaleiren and the Air Force School Centre at Kjevik. There are no known alternatives to this that will not create similar problems elsewhere. New guidelines were established in 2005 for noise, requiring existing activities to assess the new impact of existing noise and to identify it. The defense has done that. There has been an extensive dialogue with the municipality in several rounds, and we have looked at alternatives – whether there are alternatives to the shooting area itself, and what we have to do to reduce the noise. The amount of 56 million. kr, to which the representative Ropstad refers, is an estimated cost, which does not remove the noise but which reduces it by turning the shooting path. Like the Ministry of Defence and I understand this case, we have no obligation to the municipality to make changes to the already existing activity – there is no legal obligation for us. However, efforts have been made to meet the municipality by offering a cost sharing, which divides this cost into two in terms of the new use of new land in which the municipality is interested. I can only see that the municipality of Evje and Hornne did not want to meet the cost sharing invitation, and there the matter stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1184	I would like to thank you for your answer. I would also like to say that I feel that the Ministry of Defence is turning the matter upside down. It's true that it's been 100 years since the defense came, but we can't celebrate 100 years of activity, because in 2002, the government chose to put down the camp. Thus, there were three years when the shooting range was also out of activity. Then the escalation of the shooting range began again. I want to make it clear that I have a wish that the field of fire can be there, and that it can still be in development – for the village. What's the important point in this case, is that 80 pst. by the inhabitants, the whole of any centre, is within the red or yellow zone, which means that there can't be centre development. I thought the government was also concerned that there would be development in Evje and Hornne's municipality. Therefore, I find it unreasonable that a municipality of 3,500 inhabitants is charged with a sum of perhaps up to 30 million. kr for an activity they have no use – on the contrary. Does not the Minister of Defense see that there is an unfairness associated with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1193	I understand that Evje and Hornne's municipality have limited the use of this particular field of fire. Although both hunters and other shooting environments and gun clubs also use the shooting range, it is hardly enough to turn the municipality around to have a lot of interest in this shooting field. But the Kingdom of Norway needs this field of fire. There is an established shooting range and it is used. It was actually one of the prerequisites for continuing the operation on Madla and Kjevik, where you need reasonably close access to the shooting range. Of course, you could try to move everything to Waterne, but there's no capacity, and that would also lead to similar problems for Sandnes. I can really only maintain that we do not believe that we have an obligation to take noise abatement measures to help the municipality. However, we have offered to be part of it. That offer – i.e. a cost sharing between the department and the municipality – is still on the table. I remind you that I also have to think about the precedent effects on all the other municipalities that are affected by noise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1204	When I go into other different fields, I see in a letter from Defence Building that there are no comparable land-use conflicts, so I am not so afraid of the precedent. Anyway, I'm glad the Minister of Defense says he sees that Evje and Hornnes have no use for the shooting field. I agree with him that the Kingdom of Norway needs the presence of the defence in the South, but the conflict is about who is going to pay for the defence to be present. I do not understand that the Minister of Defense thinks it is right that a small municipality with 3,500 inhabitants should have to pay $30 million. kr, which is a significant sum for a small municipality and a drop in the sea of the Minister of Defence, when the municipality gets to sit with so many disadvantages and the Defense gets all the benefits. Had at least the municipality benefited from the field. Although I am an avid hunter and also use the field of fire for hunting tests, it is not, in isolation, a reason that the municipality will pay $30 million. kr. When you think about the polluter – the defense – that should pay, I cannot understand the reasonableness of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1213	I can't really do so much more than repeat that I believe that the current legislation does not impose any responsibility on the defence to go in and take these noise-control measures. This is the precedent for the presence. You've been there for 100 years, you need the shooting field, and noise is generated differently in different places in the country. Nevertheless, we have said that because we actually understand the particular challenge, all the time you don't have the job generation that you had before, we can meet the municipality through a cost sharing. I remind you that in other parts of the country people go on torch trains to keep noise from the Defense that is significantly greater than the shooting field manages to produce, but of course it's also related to nearby workplaces. I believe that the right balance must be found here between adhering to existing liability rules that I believe point to in our favour, and the kindness we have wanted to show, by offering a common solution with the municipality. I think the matter is actually still standing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1224	It could be positive noise, if you're going to use a sign like that. ‘In the case of outbound services, the Defence Organisation shall organise markings on return to Norway. Not least, after the end of service in Afghanistan, it has become a great tradition to greet those who come home in a good and dignified way. I can see that those who come home appreciate this attention. Is this a tradition to be continued and are any changes to be considered within the current way of implementing the event?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1233	I would like to thank the representative Ellingen for such a positively charged question. I share the representative's view that this has now become a good form. I have, since I became Minister of Defense, met on every suitable occasion, several times for Afghanistan veterans and once for those who came home from Seychelles, and want to continue with it, whether I myself or another representative of the government meet on any occasion. The government has been working over several years to strengthen the respect and recognition of our veterans. As part of this work, the government launched the ‘In Service for Norway’ action plan on 2 May 2011, which also emphasises the role of the medal ceremonies in recognition. We should be clear about recognising the efforts of Norwegian women and men for the job they have done. It is therefore a priority area for the government to pay attention and to strengthen the observance of the veterans. The veterans' homecoming program now seems to have found its shape. The medal ceremonies that are held regularly as the departments come home are an important and visible part of it. In addition, the homecoming programme consists of staff debriefing, conversations with stress-testing teams and social inclusion. The medal ceremonies have got a great and worthy setting for the veterans and their families, and they are also perceived by them as acknowledgment. It is an important recognition that both top military management and government representatives participate in medal ceremonies. The award of medals is a good example of a recognised measure for personnel who have served in international operations. These ceremonies are important to express the gratitude of society for the work that has been done by individuals in demanding operations on behalf of the whole of Norway. The ceremony also gives family, relatives, friends and society a greater understanding of the importance of Norwegian contributions. There has also been considerable media attention in recent times around these events. The answer to the representative's very good questions is: Yes, the defence marks have become a good tradition and will be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1250	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a positive response. I had not really expected anything else, I suppose. Of course, those who do a job outside deserve all thanks and honor when they come back. Nevertheless, I shall venture to pour a twig of wormwood into the lust of the council. I have received enquiries from others who have been on duty – not in Afghanistan, but elsewhere – who experienced a marked discrimination in the way they met when they came home. When you come from Afghanistan, there is a big ceremony, while others who have been elsewhere may experience being received by a colonel lieutenant, being placed in a hotel room on the Gardermoen and being told to go home the next day. I fully agree with what the Council of State has said here: it is important to take care of those who do a job with the flag on the shoulder out, it is important to give them credit for the job they have done, and it is important that the defence marks the significance of this, just as political Norway does, but then I also assume that the Council of State believes that it must apply to everyone who has been outside. In that case, I wonder if the Council of State intends to address this, so that we get a more equal treatment than that which, at least the undersigned, have received feedback about, is happening today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1259	I thank you for that point made by Mr Ellingen. I can promise that I will go into the seams if there may be someone who has fallen out of these arrangements. The only quota that has come home more recently from a place other than Afghanistan has come from Seychelles. Then we had a great ceremony at Akershu's fastening that had exactly the same frame as the Afghanistan receiver. It is clear that there may be people who, in the past — that is, a few years ago — came home from other operations and did not experience the same recognition, but now the principle is that it should apply to all. Then, of course, we should take into account that there are contributions from the Norwegian side where there is a person out there and that the entire contribution consists of a single person or two people. Then, for natural reasons, there will be a slightly different framework, but the recognition will apply to everyone. I'm definitely taking that point with me and I'm going to make sure that we look carefully at how we practice it for the very small quotas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1268	I particularly thank you for the last Council of State said, because that's what's operational in my question. I have received enquiries from people who have been in service in Africa and who experienced that when you came back – in relatively recent times – you were met in a way that was perceived as much more superficial than many of the heavy ceremonial things that happen when we get bigger quotas home from Afghanistan. I also perceive that the Council of State was clear that this applies regardless of volume. It is in a way the quality and the burden that they take, regardless of the number, that must be the basis for obtaining the necessary recognition and for keeping them when they come back. As long as the Council of State has confirmed that he will go into it, I am well pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1277	I then find that I fully agree with Mr Ellingen's representative. The recognition applies to the individual, regardless of what he has done. Being a member of a small quota in Africa can be at least as burdensome as being with many hundreds of others in Afghanistan. In our policy assessment, these operations are exactly as valuable. We need to find a suitable form, whether it's at each individual's home or a collection of several, so you get a little ceremony around it. At least we're going to get hold of it. I am pleased with the commitment that the representative of Ellingsen shows to our veterans, because we have a common responsibility, that we who represent government and greatness, show that they are out on our behalf and not on their own initiative, and it must be recognised as that, no matter where they have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1286	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed. The president records that there was a great deal of agreement on the last question, and there was a nice way to end the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-01.ana.ud886e1301	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
