ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e30	The representatives of Laila Gustavsen, Truls Wickholm and Øyvind Waksdal, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Abid Q. Raja For Finnmark County: Willy Pedersen For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland For the Uppland State: Johannes Rindal For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer For the South-Trundellag County: Hallgeir Bremnes From the Enlarged Party there is a notification that the licence application granted to the representative of Karin S. Woldseth for the period from 5 March to 8 March has been changed to sickness leave for the same period. – This message is taken into account. Mr Hilde Anita Nyvoll, alternate representative of the county of Troms, has applied for a waiver from meeting under the leave of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten from 6 March to 8 March, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of the Province of Troms, Viggo Fossum, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e96	Viggo Fossum is present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 5 March 2012: ‘In the extraordinary Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 5 March 2012 at 5 p.m. 15.00 is determined: The Prime Minister's office The Council of State Audun Lightbakken is given away in grace. State Council Kristin Halvorsen assumes until further notice the responsibility of managing the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, as well as the responsibilities of the Ministry of Kindergarten and Education and the administrative responsibilities of the Ministry of Knowledge. Determination of the rank of the members of the Government. State Secretarys Henriette Westhrin and Kirsti Bergstø are pardoned as State Secretary for the Council of State Audun Lysbakken. State Secretary Henriette Westhrin is appointed State Secretary for Kristin Halvorsen in the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. State Secretary Roger Østlie Sandum will, as State Secretary for State Council Kristin Halvorsen, continue to be Secretary of State for her in the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion.» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The former member of the government, Audun Lysbakken, takes office as a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e130	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1 and 2 shall be treated together and shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e155	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes of the Central Party, 5 minutes of the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes of the Left. The President will also propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e164	Nordic cooperation is deep, broad and important. The fact that we in the Nordic countries have political cooperation between us no matter who rules in the neighbouring countries is a strength for us as individual countries and for the Nordic countries as a region. What we should ask ourselves at the beginning of a debate like this is what vision we have for the further development of the Nordic region, and what role we think Norway should play in this. The Nordic region was in many ways an inspiration for the EU when Europe was to develop and, as in many other parts of Europe, language, culture and common history were something that bound us together. Today, the Nordic region is helping to inspire many in the rest of the world to further develop democracy, human rights, equality and distribution issues, not least through a Nordic immigrant population that comes from all over the world and that can report to its friends and relatives on the strengths and weaknesses of the Nordic countries. Norway has now taken over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. It gives us an opportunity to raise issues that we are particularly concerned about in Nordic cooperation. The Nordic region as a labour market region can be such a case. Work creates well-being in the Nordic region, as in Norway. When over 100,000 Swedes stay in Norway every day to work, shape and influence our society perhaps more than ever before. When the 100,000 – hopefully many years – are going to retire, or some of them may be dissatisfied, it is important that the rights they have are easily and smoothly coordinated in the Nordic region, regardless of where the individual citizen is staying. It is therefore important to continue to reduce border barriers. At the same time, individual rights of well-being in the Nordic region are so different that I think it would be unrealistic to imagine that all rights will be equal, and thus all obstacles will be removed. In the case of frontier barriers, others from the Workers' Party shall say more about it. I just need to stress how important it is to ensure that new barriers do not arise and that old barriers are being removed. Departments and underlying agencies should have as a rule to take the border barrier test on all new legislation and procedures in place, with a view to being a Nordic citizen or enterprise as simple as possible. The welfare society is currently one of the Nordic exports. How we have been able to combine economic growth, a progressive tax system that ensures human distribution, and equality, are world-wide economists curious about. Maybe there's some of this that can also put the Nordics on the map internationally. We live in the age of globalisation. When I was a teenager, I thought Swedish television and ‘Dallas’ was exotic, and the first time I took the trip outside Norway’s borders, it was just to Sweden. My own 14-year-old is already world-renowned and plays everyday games interactively with people from all over the world. In the age of globalisation, the Nordics have a lot to contribute, and ambitions must be high. At the same time, competition continues. The fight to translate the good ideas into products that contribute to greater efficiency, better resource use and lower climate emissions is now under way. If the Nordics are to assert themselves in that competition, we must bet on our advantage and on knowledge-based industries. There is still much to be gained from cooperation, both in industry and in research — the same in building Scandinavia as a common brand in travel. Much is happening in the Nordic region in the area of defence and security cooperation. The declaration of solidarity proposed in the Stoltenberg report, followed by the Nordic Foreign Ministers, was an important milestone. The same applies to the Declaration of Foreign Ministers of November 2011 on the establishment of Nordic cooperation in the field of digital security, both of which share good examples of sensible cooperation. Strengthening Nordic defence cooperation is not intended to replace the existing cooperation of our countries within the UN, NATO and the EU, but rather to complement it. The government's stated ambition is in the long term a common strength production and location of departments and to be able to use equal defence materials in common strength contributions. In a world of new security challenges and where Nordic challenges are quite similar, it is important to cooperate. In reality, we would not sit quietly and watch one of our neighbouring countries be attacked, or a serious threat or incident arose without making resources available. This reality lies behind Nordic defence cooperation. Finally, I would like to commend the Swedish Government's delegation to the Nordic Council. The documents we are discussing here today show that it is both an active government and an active delegation that help to renew and further develop Nordic cooperation, including at parliamentary level. I leave to the representatives of the various delegations to comment on this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e190	Nordic cooperation is very important for Norway and for its citizens, precisely because it affects the daily lives of our citizens in the Nordic region in many ways. In this way, I think that the Committee has delivered a very good, unanimous position, which points well to the main areas of Nordic cooperation and the focus that we have today. As the setting indicates, this has become a significant, comprehensive collaboration as time goes by. In 2012, Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The theme of the welfare state has been identified as the main theme. We are concerned when Norway now has the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers – as it is not known every year – that it is necessary to make good use of this opportunity. It'll be a long time for the next opportunity, and it's the privilege of the few governments to get this task several times. The rapporteur asked the question: What visions do we have for cooperation? I want to ask questions about what is really Norway's project in Nordic cooperation. It is not quite clear, either from the Committee's position or from the government's proposal, precisely because Nordic cooperation has gradually become so wide. Some say that Nordic cooperation should generate a general closer cooperation with our neighbouring countries, or that we should use it to focus extra on issues that we, as a nation, believe should be developed in a particular direction. Others mean that Nordic cooperation should be strengthened precisely because it can be a good alternative – in the opinion of many – to EU cooperation. I believe that Norway should have a clear vision of what issues we are going to raise on the Nordic agenda, and there should be close cooperation between the Minister for Cooperation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Delegation of the Storting to the Nordic Council. It has not been a tradition for, in the years I have been in, at least, that the Danish Government's delegation as a whole travels themes in the Nordic Council. This has been left to the party groups, but I want to ask questions as to whether the time has come to focus on issues that are important for us to address on the agenda through joint proposals across the party boundaries. What things should this be? In short, there should be issues that can facilitate the everyday lives of the Nordic citizens and not least of the companies that provide for our well-being. There is a central focus on border-blocking and mobility issues. Education is what we're going to live on in the future, having good knowledge. We know that high school dropouts are common to the Nordic countries, and we have to get the quality of our education. Fighting crime is a topic that we need to get more focus and cooperation around, and not least innovation. In the longer term, we have northern areas, the Arctic, research and cooperation with Russia. I'll come back with an article later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e209	The process of globalisation that we are in is updating the need for a significantly closer Nordic cooperation. In the future, the Nordic welfare society will be increasingly challenged by the world community in almost all areas of society, whether in research, culturally, linguistically or not least economically. A well-developed Nordic cooperation will make us more robust in our ability to grow on these challenges, and it is in this image that we should find out about the visions of Nordic cooperation, for which the case-rapporteur correctly pointed out the need. In this picture, a stronger effort is needed for Nordic integration, simply more energy in the system. Maybe we should also look at how the Nordic bodies work in relation to each other, but it's a bigger debate that we'll get back to a little bit later. March 23rd we celebrate the day of the Nordics. We are then gathered at the Nordic Council in Reykjavik to mark the 50th anniversary of the Helsinki Agreement. We can look back in 50 years with a lot of good results, which we're good at talking about. But unfortunately, we must also note that in recent years there has been a sense of stagnation in the matter of actually being able to do something special about the frontier barriers and getting on with one, I say, clearer Nordic integration. The Helsinki Agreement's intentions on equal rights for all Nordic citizens, for example: is not fully realised. Here, there are several approaches that are just linked to frontier barriers, which relate to the rights of workers when they cross borders, perhaps these days in particular between Norway and Sweden and Sweden and Denmark. Furthermore, I would like to point out the emphasis of the Helsinki Agreement on law cooperation, a cooperation that was followed up nine-time for many years, but which has gradually become quite watered down and today is confined to given areas. Of course, the EU also premises in relation to legal cooperation, but there is still a need for closer cooperation – more systematic – and cooperation that starts at an earlier stage, so that coordination becomes effective. According to the Helsinki Agreement, schools in the Nordic countries are also required to teach in the languages, culture and social conditions of the other countries. The curricula are located in all Nordic countries, including Norway, but unfortunately we see a trend in all countries towards this teaching being down-prioritized, not to say ignored, by the teachers. This is not least the case in Norway, and it is well documented by the Education Directorate’s studies, which gives a crushing judgment on the teaching of neighbouring countries in our country. This is serious, simply because Nordic cooperation is becoming more important. Being an employee in another Nordic country and mastering the language of the other country is going to be more important to today's youth than it has been to us. This means that greater efforts must be made also in the language field. The common understanding of languages we have in Scandinavia is probably the most important competitive advantage our region has in relation to many other regions of the world. Many tens of thousands of Swedish youth work in Norway and Denmark. The Øresund bridge literally saves Sweden for approx. One and a half billion. Swedish krona in unemployment benefit, while contributing to a value creation in Denmark of 6.6 bn. kr. These are important and big numbers. The Nordic Council of Ministers' polls show that 78 pst. is in favour of stronger Nordic cooperation, and the entire 42 pst. could also envisage obligatory cooperation of a supranational nature. So there's no doubt that we have the people in our backs in view of the desire for Nordic cooperation. Then there should also be political room for a little more boldness with regard to the concrete proposals we are going to work on in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e224	SV is pleased that the government will strengthen Nordic cooperation. Nordic countries have a lot in common, not least when it comes to a well-developed welfare country. Looking at how we can further develop the welfare state in a good way, and in line with Nordic traditions, is a main theme of work within the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation. SV is particularly pleased that the government will strengthen the Nordic region as a region for research and innovation, and that one in this context will pay particular attention to the possibility of using research and innovation to develop green growth. The Nordic Council's top research initiative, which runs from 2009 to 2013, is the largest joint research programme in the Nordic Council so far, and so far it seems to be successful. We see exciting opportunities in the work being done, which can be passed on within the Nordic Council or otherwise. I am happy to be a member of the nutrition selection at the Nordic Council. After the new scheme, the food selection has been given responsibility for research. SV believes that research has a perspective far beyond industrial policy, so we are very pleased that the Nordic Council has come to the conclusion that a sub-selection will be set up where representatives from both the business and cultural and educational selections will work on research and innovation. I am so lucky to have a seat in that sub-selection, and I look forward with great joy to exciting bets in that area. I'm, as I said, especially glad that part of the bet is going to be on green growth. I see great potential for working together Nordic on green growth. In green growth, there are, among other things, a commitment to renewable energy, and environmental technologies that go far beyond renewable energy. From my own experience, I have many examples of green growth, for example: The effort to produce a CO2-free aluminium production. So green growth is more than renewable energy, but renewable energy is an important part of it. In this kind of bet, and especially the part of green growth that has an industrial perspective, it's pretty heavy that needs to be done. In addition to demanding top-level research and excellence at the theoretical and academic level, it will very often also require complex and expensive equipment. The fact that, through Nordic cooperation, we can manage to build up infrastructure, cooperate on research equipment, as well as concrete cooperation, which can bring the Nordics to the forefront when it comes to green growth, is a very exciting possibility. It's a possibility that we in SV are very happy that the government is placing high on the agenda in Nordic cooperation. Finally, I would say that Nordic cooperation is a dimension to which we in SV attach great importance, also in relation to the efforts in the north. In the Barents region, there is now a lot of exciting things going on. We note that the government emphasises that, even individually, for individual countries, of course, Nordic cooperation should be based on growth and protection. I think it's very important to focus on getting growth in the north, it has to build on protection. All non-protected crops will return. For this reason, it is very important that a large proportion of the stakeholders in the Barents region are gathered in the Nordic Council, so that one can work together on the important thing: to premise for protection before we can grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e244	The Nordic Council is important, but can also become much more important. The Nordic Council is important today because important work has been done on cooperation in foreign and security policy. Thorvald Stoltenberg has made a great effort there, and it has a broad upsurge in the Nordic Council. It's a pleasure for a Nordic to experience. The Nordic Council is doing important things to reduce frontier barriers, not least in relation to working life and social benefits for young people, who see job opportunities more and more in Nordic countries than in their own countries. The Nordic Council has also done important things in the field of business policy, but there is more to it in its beginning, linked to green business. Some of the things that characterise the Nordic countries — Finland, Sweden and Norway — are the significant resources of renewable carbon, and there is now a growing recognition that it needs to be focused and made profitable so that it can meet a greater proportion of people’s carbon needs, replacing oil, gas and coal as a carbon source. Nutrition is not least the focus. At the last meeting in Copenhagen, it was an incredibly central seminar on antibiotic use in animal feed and in human medicine. Human medicine researchers are seeing increasing challenges related to resistance. Therefore, it is important that we follow up on this, both antibiotic use in animals and not least in animal feed, as well as restrictions on human medicine. I would also like to highlight the important work that has been done in relation to the voluntary organisations, among others. The Nordic Association and ensure good working conditions. The fact that we have such a basic exposure, such a woman-to-woman contact, is essential, so that we get a natural knowledge of each other's cooperation. The Nordic model has been shown to be strong now in relation to the internationally demanding economic and political situation we face. That's why it's important to bring about this with the homogeneity of people through the organisation of work and business, the long-term management of natural resources, the more egalitarian property conditions that we have in the Nordic region than in the continent, and environmental considerations, how clean soil, air and water are good that we have to a greater extent than others. It is incredibly important that we produce these qualities, because Norway and the Nordic countries are a small example of too many, and it is therefore important that we cultivate the image. Then I'm concerned that the Nordics can become more important. And what is the vision? The central party’s vision for Norway has long been different and is not seaworthy enough. The vision of the North should, of course, be a different angle that is not seaworthy enough. That is to say, it must provide security for people, while the people of the Nordic countries are no better than other peoples, and it must be based on a heavy and strong international solidarity. The main challenge for Nordic cooperation is the different commitment of the Nordic countries to the European Union. What I notice now is that when the weakness of the Union experiment becomes increasingly apparent by the fact that the economic union is becoming increasingly weak – those who want to drive the economic union closer to a political union, know that it is a demanding project and has very difficult to succeed – it should become a natural reality in the Nordic region with closer Nordic cooperation, because, when the time comes, it can have an alternative to the Nordics being divided into different forms of association with the European Union. It is incredibly central that we then get the Nordic model out of this work. There are many who look to the Nordic countries, and Norway should work to ensure that the Nordic countries are more at sea and develop the Nordic model within a solidarity tradition based on a tribute of the national states, with our modern constitutions – constitutions that we see the world increasingly wanting through its reform processes. There's a lot to develop in the Nordic region, and there's a lot of demanding questions we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e263	One of the most important tasks we have in the future is to remove frontier barriers between Nordic countries. The task is demanding, but absolutely necessary. Border barriers threaten the common Nordic market that we have been so proud of for decades. Fortunately, Norway is an active driver in this work, but we have to admit that it takes a long time. There are many obstacles that need to be covered. In its 2012 plans, the delegation has given high priority to removing border barriers and preventing new ones from emerging. The delegation therefore welcomes the fact that during April all Nordic parliaments will be discussing measures to reduce border barriers. In Stortinget that is the debate on 24 April. The delegation has had a good dialogue with the Minister for Cooperation on this topic. But the delegation has also found that the obstacles can be complex. This is part of several departments. This requires good leadership. In particular, it is an important task to avoid the emergence of new barriers. New laws and regulations introduced in our Nordic countries, for example: new EU directives give rise to new challenges. In view of the decision taken by the Nordic Prime Ministers in June 2007 to ‘remove by all means the difficulties encountered by residents in the Nordic relationship’, the delegation concluded that the Prime Minister should take part in the border-block debate in Stortinget on 24 April. The Prime Minister's participation reflects the weight of this work. It underlines the importance of the case, not least for the sake of all the municipalities bordering Sweden and Finland. There are many who almost daily encounter frontier barriers by working, living and living in border areas. On 23 March this year, it was 50 years since the Nordic Cooperation Agreement, the Helsinki Agreement, was signed in Helsinki. At the beginning of the negotiations, Denmark and Norway opposed such an agreement. But a strong Finnish desire to get Nordic cooperation anchored in an inter-people agreement weighed more heavily than the anticonceptions. The delegation will mark this 50th anniversary in May with a seminar on this agreement and what it can mean for future Nordic cooperation. The whole idea of the agreement is that all Nordic citizens should be treated equally. We must have uniform provisions in the Nordic countries as far as possible, and we must remove obstacles to mobility. This is particularly important in the labour market and in the social field. The core of Nordic cooperation is political, with politicians in the Nordic Council of Ministers and in the Nordic Council. Cooperation shall be based on political commitment. It is important that the agenda be set by politicians. The elected and political dimension must be strengthened. This view is also reflected in the Committee's comments in the opinion. The path from a political decision is taken and until the decision is taken is far too long in Nordic cooperation. Vital cooperation requires clear policy priorities and active policy initiatives. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the Nordic Presidency choosing in 2012 to put cultural policy issues on the agenda. There is a strong cultural community between the Nordic countries. This community must be strengthened. The Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers have an important role here. The Nordic Council's cultural prizes make cultural cooperation visible to a broad audience. It is also important to strengthen and further develop cooperation in media policy. The Nordic Culture Fund supports Nordic cooperation in both professional and voluntary cultural life. Cultural cooperation between the Nordic countries should be strengthened. Europe is experiencing uncertainty and unrest. Now Nordic cooperation is more important than ever. We must have a full focus on Nordic cooperation in general and, in particular, on the important work now being done within the framework of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e282	Nordic cooperation is a comprehensive theme. Our geographical location brings closeness to our neighbouring countries, and we have a strong community with them culturally, historically, linguistically and not least in terms of population. We also have some of the same challenges, as both the position and the debate here in the Chamber have shown, on a broad range of areas. I think it is absolutely essential that we ensure, as far as possible, cooperation with our Nordic neighbours in areas such as the environment, education and defence policy – to name a few. It's good for Norway, and it's good for the Nordic community. I notice that it is a unanimous opinion from the Committee on the matter that is under consideration today. It is not so unexpected, all the time we have a broad tradition of agreeing on how Norway should act outwards. But that doesn't mean that we always agree on all of the individual issues, or what to put at the top of the priority list. I will not repeat what has already been said in the debate, but I will briefly come up with a few moments. Firstly, the reduction of border barriers is still very important, not only for the Nordic community, but also for the Norwegian economy. This is because we have a very great advantage, yes, perhaps a decisive advantage, as large parts of the Norwegian economy depend entirely on workers from countries other than Norway. Therefore, it must be possible to cross the border as easily as possible and to move from one job to another as easily as possible. I am therefore pleased with the clear signals that the work on removing border barriers will be highly prioritised also under the Nordic Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2012. Secondly, we are facing a great deal of work here in Stortinget in connection with the work on a long-term defence plan. There is every reason to stress the importance of increased cooperation with our Nordic neighbours in the field of foreign and defence. It is positive that we will now cooperate more closely on protection against digital attacks, and I am also pleased to follow up the 2009 report of the Stoltenberg Committee. From the left, I want to signal that we are looking positively at further enhanced cooperation also within these fields. Towards the end, I would like to say something about the Nordic neighbours and then primarily Russia and Belarus. After the weekend's elections in Russia, it is even more important, if possible, that we make clear in all relevant forums the importance of following the rules of democracy. The Foreign Minister recently said in the foreign policy debate here in the Chamber that he expected the presidential elections to be carried out in accordance with Russia's international obligations. I believe that – so far at least – we can conclude that hardly has happened. We in the Left have, among other things, through contact with our sister party Jabloko many drops of violations of democratic rules in Russia. It is therefore important that we continue to signal our view of Russia's democratic challenges in a clear and clear way, including in the Nordic context where it is natural to raise them. It also expresses the Committee’s concerns about developments in Belarus – Europe’s last dictatorship. The Left believes it is important and good that the Nordic Council of Ministers supports the exile university of Belarusian students in Vilnius. But at the same time, I would like to stress the importance that, together with our Nordic neighbours and the rest of the world, we are also doing everything we can to support democratic development in Belarus. The EU – and our Nordic neighbours who are EU members – has now expanded their sanctions against the country. The Nordic Council Bureau has also made contact with the official Belarus on ice, while Norway, paradoxically, continues to negotiate a free trade agreement with the country. It's not entirely related, and on behalf of the left side I want to strongly oppose it. It's not just a matter of expressing concern and concern. Good dialogue can change us all. A stronger dialogue line and effort should be made, efforts should be made to bring about the necessary changes in Belarus. I am afraid that when Norway negotiates a free trade agreement without at the same time being strong, clear and demanding towards Belarus, with clear demands for democracy, freedom of expression and respect for human rights, we can help legitimize the regime. It may be too much to demand that the Minister of Foreign Affairs put his foot down, but one can at least hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can be involved in making a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e308	This year, Norway holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. ‘The welfare state in a Nordic perspective’ is the title of our programme that has a background in the economic crisis that also affects us here in the Nordic region. When we had our first Minister of Cooperation meeting here in Oslo just a few weeks ago, I was pleased to note that the Nordic community is very much in agreement on key issues. We all want the Nordic Council of Ministers to adapt to societal developments, and we realise that this work will require changes. The welfare state is common to the Nordic countries, although we have also chosen different solutions in a number of areas. The commitment to an equal society in which women participate on the same footing as men is also a key factor in a sustainable welfare country. Work and sustainable well-being belong together. Youth is the future's resource. We therefore need to focus on an inclusive and family-friendly working life, prevent school drop-outs and give young people a good transition to working life. Young people who are out of work and society are among the biggest social problems in the Nordic countries and in Europe. Cooperation with the social partners has a central place in the development of the Nordic welfare countries. The Norwegian Presidency will initiate a dialogue with the parties on the contributions and roles of the parties in the cooperation. Changes in demography, health status and disease prevention face major challenges in the years to come. Continuous improvement and learning are central to quality assurance and patient safety. Green economic growth and climate will continue under the Norwegian Presidency. We want to contribute to strengthening the Nordic region as a region for research and innovation. In November 2011, the Ministers of State adopted eight proposals for green growth to be followed up by the various Councils of Trade Union Ministers. Cooperation across national borders and the removal of border barriers is an important part of the Norwegian Presidency programme. We will continue to work on identifying and removing border barriers, and I therefore look forward to the debate here in the Grand Duchy on border barriers on 24 April. But not all frontier barriers can be solved. We want to be clear that some obstacles are the result of strange legislation that we want to maintain. I am also concerned that we ensure that we have good enough procedures to prevent the implementation of EU directives or new legislation from leading to new frontier barriers. Here, too, Stortinget has a responsibility. At the Cooperation Ministerial meeting in February, we agreed to start work on a multi-annual action plan on border barriers in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Under our presidency, we want to contribute to increased efforts to strengthen the understanding of neighbouring languages in the Nordic region. In this context, we will also ensure that the agreement on the opportunities for Nordic youth to study in neighbouring countries is continued. The Presidency will actively follow up the request decision. Norway wants to contribute to the efficiency of the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. There is a process of discussing the future Nordic cooperation. Here we will, among other things: look at the organisation and objectives of the work. The work of the Cooperation Ministers now, with the establishment and arrangement of a so-called priority budget, I hope to give greater flexibility to the work of the Council of Ministers and greater scope for policy initiatives. We will have close contact with all the relevant departments, the various Councils of Ministers and the Committees of Officials. The starting point is the initiatives under way in the areas of green growth, health and well-being and globalisation. Globalisation initiatives expire mainly in the current year and the Top Research Initiative in 2013. Based on experience, we will look into whether or not to continue. Proposals of the Nordic Council, including: the need to assess a top-level research initiative on health and well-being in this context. I look forward to continuing to work closely with the Nordic Council delegation in Stortinget, and I look forward to the input from the delegation, both on what we are going to have on the priority budget in the future, and on the relevant issues that it is important to prioritise in Nordic cooperation. Nordic cooperation is broad, and if we are to have a clear focus, it is also important to get clear input from all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e342	There was a relationship in the state council posts that I noticed, and that was the question of border barriers. Now, Mr Stortinget will have a major debate on that subject on 24 April, but the Council of State said that some areas were the expression of spe­cific policies, which would no longer be regarded as frontier barriers. I must say that I am strongly responding to this, because many of these policies are areas over which our neighbouring countries are deeply annoyed by the fact that this creates major frontier barriers for their citizens and businesses. Then I almost have to ask the Council of State to make a concrete statement: what areas are we not now going to focus on as frontier barriers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e347	Norwegian policies in the agricultural sector will remain stable. When our Swedish neighbours continue to raise customs duties as a barrier to borders, I believe that it is a barrier that we have a clear objective here in Norway, namely to maintain an agricultural policy and to maintain settlement throughout the country. So I think we need to be able to accept that individual countries take such reservations in their national policy design, without being seen as a frontier barrier. In some areas of social security legislation, we have also requested that you have a certain connection with the labour market before you take part in, among others. the maternity schemes we have in Norway. These arrangements I find it unnatural that we should change, even if they can give some results that make Swedish fathers who have a spouse living in Norway not get the same rights as they would have had in Sweden. There are some of these areas that we have to stick to, even though there may be frontier obstacles associated with the actual relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e354	I believe that the government should then make a statement stating which areas we are now going to put in a drawer and forget, and which areas we are now going to focus on, in order to remove the barriers to the border. As the Council of State is also aware, the Nordic Council has now made some changes to its working arrangements to try to make the form of work more modern and to get more focus on policies and debates. I could imagine hearing the Council of State's assessment of the modernisation she has planned to initiate by the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers in her time as head of that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e361	First of all, as the representative of Kielland Asmyhr said, we have set up a working group that is now going to go through which frontier barriers are registered in the field of employment and social affairs – I think that is an important area – so that we can see what obstacles are actually there, and what opportunities there are to solve them. That report will come in March, and we will know it before we have the debate in Stortinget. What work we are doing to renew the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers is particularly related to the budget, where we propose to set up a priority budget to address policy priorities in a better way than now. There is too little money available over the years for new policy initiatives, and there we are helping to put in place a bigger pot of money that can be used for policy initiatives. In addition, we have started an effort to look at the organisation of border-blocking services, and in the end, I would like to lift an effort to look at the whole organisation of the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e368	The resolution of border barriers is very much about legislation, and the Helsinki Agreement has given us some clear guidelines on working closely together on legislation, coordination and the development of legislation. Unfortunately, we have seen a development here, which at least I believe is going in the wrong direction. From being a cooperation that began at a very early stage in the legislative process – with parallel investigations in relation to public investigations, i.e. the whole of the background material underpinning the laws and up to final legislation – today’s situation is that this is happening only within given areas, and this is probably happening at a much later stage in the process. This applies to all departments and should be attacked in an overall context. Is there any government council that will take hold of, and what does she intend to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e375	There is no doubt that new legislation can help create new frontier barriers. It's easier to avoid it in advance than in retrospect, so having a focus on how laws will turn out related to frontier barriers is important. That's why we had a seminar for those who work with promises concretely, last year in Copenhagen. It is a work that we will consider continuing within the Norwegian Presidency, too, to focus on it – putting people working with legislation together – I think it is important to avoid having new barriers in new laws. It is also an important work for us to make some Nordic assessments in the matters we present to the Stortinget, and here the Stortinget also has a role to play in looking at it when dealing with laws here in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e382	Does the representative Thommess want another line?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e385	Yes, please. A field that relates not only to legislation but also to the kind of technological solutions chosen in the media field and in other fields: we have lived at a time when communication has been simple. A newspaper is a newspaper, we can turn Sweden on the radio, and we have been able to get Danish and Swedish television on our own. Now we're going into a new era with other technological solutions, and that communication is no longer a matter of course. We have on some occasions pointed out the importance of finding both parallel technological solutions and regimes related to the legislation around them. Is there a field government is concerned about, and will the government continue to work on it? I mention it because these questions are in several departments, and as it turns out, they're kind of sloppy to approach, whether it's the government of Norway, or it's the other Nordic governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e392	There is no doubt that cultural cooperation is the cornerstone of Nordic language cooperation. The fact that we can both see television channels, have books, have programs in different Nordic languages has contributed a lot to the Nordic understanding of languages. The development of Nordic computer games is also a way to make young people familiar with the Nordic language. So we see that there's Internet and new ways to distribute a lot of applications that now take over a lot from what's been the traditional ways. This is why the Nordic Council of Ministers' cultural section will look at the potential of web-based distribution of Nordic content within the framework of copyright, because here – as the representative Thommes says – there are some crunched legal barriers that we need to look at and find solutions to. But such a study that is being conducted aims to increase Nordic accessibility for Nordic online cultural content, and I hope that it will help us to get even more cultural content.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e399	I have listened with attention to the State Council statement on how she and the Nordic Council of Ministers have followed up the request decision taken by the Stortinget in 2010 on the focus, efficiency and stronger priority of cooperation. I think it is very good that Norway is now leading the follow-up to that decision, through the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Council of State did not say anything about what has been an important issue during the debate on this initiative both here in Stortinget and in the Nordic Council of Ministers: an assessment of the functioning of the system of civil servants committees under the Council of Ministers, whether it contributes to bureaucracy, whether the time has come to assess the appropriateness of this system. It has been re-examined in the position of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee on the matter we are dealing with today. I would like to hear if this is part of the work that the Council of State and the Council have now started.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e406	We believe that the role of the Committees of Officials is important in order to prepare matters for the Council of Ministers. But the system that has been, with the fact that there are only issues in which the Committee of Officials agrees, that are brought up to the Council of Ministers, I have signaled that I want a different system, because I think it is we politicians who have to be able to make decisions on matters. That is what makes it politically exciting to get involved in such work, that not all matters are fully prepared – and with agreement – in advance. We also raise cases from the Committee of Officials on which there is no consensus in the Committee of Officials. It probably makes us have longer meetings, it may be a bit more demanding to make decisions, and we need to spend a little longer time on it – but I think it makes sense in a political body that the Nordic Council of Ministers should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e412	The replication shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e415	In these last years, we have seen renewed energy in foreign and security and defence cooperation in the Nordic region. We have seen it beyond the 2000s, that it has been possible to go deep in the areas where the Nordic countries have obvious common interests, without any barriers to NATO and EU relations. In this way, the foreign ministers’ initiative to ask Thorvald Stoltenberg to lead an investigation that would look ahead, which would go beyond what could be carried out in the short term – but draw exactly the vision that some have called for here today in the field of foreign and security – was of great importance. We are now implementing the Stoltenberg report article for article. Actually, I think we are far ahead of what you might have thought when this report came. Among other things, we have a declaration of solidarity, it is not like other similar declarations in binding cooperation, such as NATO and the EU, but it is a very important expression of how the Nordic countries share common interests. Last year, when the Libya operation started, Norway, Sweden and Denmark agreed to sit behind common name plates in the Libya coordination group. It was an important breakthrough because the Nordics got a profile. We cooperated with one voice. Ten days ago – when the Friends of the Syrian people met in Tunis – one common Nordic post was held around the table, not four to five different, and we also invited the Baltic states. This made the post appear higher on the list, was heard and noticed. In my conversation with former Secretary-General Kofi Annan yesterday – he is now taking on a demanding task for the Syrian situation – I could show that the Nordic countries, which have a known profile in the humanitarian field and in order to take international responsibility, have chosen to stand together. This is an expression of the fact that, in concrete areas, there is now a Nordic profile following the work of foreign ministers and governments – I see well supported by the parliaments – implementing. Two areas are on the agenda in the follow-up to the Stoltenberg report. One is the area of digital security. The Nordic governments are working to establish a Nordic competence network against digital attacks. It's worth noting that the Chief of Intelligence's intelligence drew cyberattacks as one of the greatest challenges facing us today in terms of security. The Nordic countries are bringing together in this area. It is about Nordic social security – the increasingly important security policy challenge. The first step is to establish a graduated communication network between the Nordic national authorities. Our ambition is that the communication network should be in place by November this year. The aim will be to alert, analyse and respond in a safe and effective way through digital attacks. Countries will then have an important instrument to further develop practical Nordic cooperation on digital security. Then we also work on the issue of cooperation and co-location of our foreign representation. In these days, it is safe to know that Norway, Sweden and Denmark have close communication around their presence in Syria — which is being evaluated on an ongoing basis. We also consider — Norway, Denmark and Sweden — to establish joint office facilities inside Myanmar, in Yangon, as part of diplomatic developments in relation to this country in transformation. We are working to deepen the crisis management organisation cooperation where crisis affects several Nordic countries' citizens, both locally and at the capital level. That is what we saw during the crisis in Egypt, and in Japan in 2011, where the Nordic crisis effort and communication work were coordinated and led to much more efficient use of resources. So there's been a question here: Can the Nordics become something more? The representative of Lundtigen was looking for what the Nordic region could become if the EU project went into disintegration. I don't want to speculate on it. I think it is a bad thing for the Nordics if the EU project goes into disintegration. But what I'm sure of is that what we call regional cooperation in Europe – sub-regional cooperation – has a great opportunity for the Nordic region. The Nordic countries are at the heart of a larger network of Baltic Sea cooperation, Nordic cooperation, Barents cooperation and Arctic cooperation. What is the common denominator of all those arrangements? Yes, Norden. That is why we can do more about it through cooperation, and when I invite my Nordic colleagues to Stavanger for the Nordic Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting on 4 May, this will be an important item on the agenda. I notice that in more and more areas this becomes relevant, because, after all, governments' tasks are dealing with the interests of citizens. What happens across the borders where citizens live is of great importance. Therefore, the Nordic region is both the answer and – hopefully also – a growing part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e431	There is a great deal of consensus about the security policy cooperation that is now taking place in the Nordic region and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained here – also, let us say, the expansion and deepening of it. But then the Foreign Minister stressed that this is not a defence salliance. That alliance link is elsewhere. Now, if this security cooperation in the Nordic countries is deepening, so that capacities can be allocated between countries, if, for example, one thinks that Norway can reduce its national defence because one thinks that other Nordic countries have stronger country defences in a crisis situation – now history shows that if tension increases, the Nordic countries have quite different interests, and one thing can be the will, but the ability and risk of standing up for each other may vary – does my question become to the Foreign Minister: Have you also taken into account these restrictions and challenges that are involved in the development of security cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e438	This is a very good question. I think it's because we've focused on answering it, that we can do what we're doing now: we respect that we've made the choices we have, in relation to our primary relationship to security. That means there's no doubt about it. For Norway, we are a member of NATO. We're contributing there. It's a key to our security. But when the NATO countries meet at the Chicago Summit in May, we note that Sweden and Finland are among the perfectly obvious partners invited to that meeting. They're getting involved more and more. I think – that’s a big question for a 1 minute response – that in a future perspective, the Nordic countries will also look at capacity sharing, because we have small, advanced defences, are close to each other and will be able to cooperate more. It's a visionary cooperation, as the chiefs of defence go on. We now see that our planes practice together in North Norway – and can do it very efficiently. Small countries with ambitions to maintain a credible defence also have an interest in cooperating. We also see that on the European continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e443	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question that concerns this with spice layers – which should be well known even within the ranks of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is a need to establish an east-west route in the north. There have been political and business input to develop the dynamics of a north-eastern context. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs plan to take an initiative to establish a spice layer to establish an east-west air link in the north, between Norway, Sweden and Finland — and which may also affect Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e450	I have talked many times about a lot of infrastructure and communication, energy and transport going north-south, and that it is an obvious east-west challenge – I agree. But I think I might have to disappoint the representative by saying that I do not intend to take such an initiative as Minister for Foreign Affairs. What I want is that through Barents' cooperation, through the northern dimension, through the transport window there, where also the transport ministers concerned are sitting, we can work out the basis to which it actually covers a line east-west along several dimensions. It's through the kind of processes, where we also get several of the interested in Europe, that we can get something done like this. Then I think it's a fundamental prerequisite that there are people, goods and equipment to transport in such east-west contexts. It must be in place before there can be any talk of taking the initiative to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e455	Foreign and defence policy is the most exciting and dynamic area of cooperation in Nordic cooperation at present. A very solid platform has been set up for it through the Stoltenberg report and the security created for this cooperation to be based on existing forms of connectivity and status. At the same time, it is evident that the dynamics of this are increasing the integration of Nordic countries into defence and foreign policy. The question that will be raised a little further is, what transparency we will have on our part if the other Nordic countries, which are not members of NATO today, want to integrate more strongly than through the partnership status they now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e462	The default starting point for that answer is that they have to make the choices themselves. We are talking about Sweden and Finland, similar if some countries have opted to be outside the EU. My experience is that in the different choices we've made, if they're going to change to equal, we've now been able to choose an area of Nordic cooperation in this area that can deal with that inequality. Should it become more equal, I don't see that there should be any obstacle to going even deeper. Probably you can. But what's interesting is that we have a different relationship with NATO, which has not been an obvious obstacle for us to have been able to do more and more together, including in the field of defence policy. That is why we must follow the debates in the countries concerned. I don't see any fundamental change in these areas, but I don't see that it prevents us from moving forward, as we've seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e467	Banks in the Nordic countries charge sky-high charges for transfers of money between accounts, if they exceed the borders between the Nordic countries, at a high additional cost for them, such as: works and studies in a country other than where they have an account. Sweden now has that scheme in liquidation, so that these additional charges are abolished by transfers calculated in Swedish kroner. When will the Norwegian Government follow the good example of the Swedish Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e474	I do not need to answer that question because this matter is not my responsibility. Whether the Minister of Cooperation is working on it, or whether it is the Minister of Finance, we must ensure that a good response can be given to the representative. I am just as little enthusiastic about unnecessary fees as the representative, and in simplifying cooperation between borders it should be on the agenda. But I can't comment on this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e480	In the fall of the regimes in the Middle East, it has been clear how the regimes have been supported by the West for decades – profit-motivated support and self-interests. Is the Foreign Minister unconcerned about whether a free trade agreement with Belarus can support and help legitimize the regime? And: How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that changes can be enforced in Belarus, taking into account the pattern of action on free trade agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e485	I'm glad the replicator takes this up, because he asked me the question, and now I get the opportunity to answer it. First, I just want to distance myself from the assumption that Norway is not clear in relation to Belarus. We have a clear voice, and we have joined in the actions of our Nordic and European partners, systematically, with no doubt about it. As far as the Free Trade Agreement is concerned, I think the representative knows that we have not sought a free trade agreement with Belarus. We started a debate with Russia, and it is important for Norway – I will defend that, and it is important for Norwegian interests. Then Russia has chosen to enter into a customs union, or a partnership, with Kazakhstan and Belarus. I believe that Norway, which has minimal interests in relation to Belarus, should continue to work with Russia. The probability that there will be an agreement with Belarus is small in view of the fact that they are not members of the World Trade Organisation, and that is a prerequisite. That is why I think it is right for us to pursue it, while being an active driver for democratic reform. We are now taking the lead in Nordic cooperation to support the University of Vilnius, which is an important institution in that transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e494	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e497	Nordic cooperation is becoming increasingly important. Our cooperation is admired all over the world. I have followed Nordic cooperation closely during the last three major periods, and I have recorded that in the Nordic countries there is a willingness to vitalize this cooperation. I would say that Nordic cooperation was given a stronger dimension after former foreign minister Thorvald Stoltenberg presented his report on Nordic cooperation on foreign and security policy at the beginning of 2009, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said today. This has created debate in and between our Nordic countries, but also the will for dialogue and good solutions for all. I have noticed that a joint committee in its position has expressed satisfaction with the proposals for the Stoltenberg report. I agree with both the Committee and the Minister for Foreign Affairs when they underline the importance of a Nordic declaration of solidarity, which has been agreed upon. This creates great confidence even beyond the borders of our Nordic countries. Let me also mention for myself the special importance that marine surveillance and Arctic issues have and will have. We know that climate change has a strong impact on the situation by having the seas retreat very quickly, and that it offers both new opportunities and new challenges. I agree with the government when it says that the biggest challenge is to find a balance between protection and use in these areas. Here we must have two thoughts in our heads at the same time, so that we can use our resources and our advantages. It was both predictable and very important that the Stoltenberg report pointed out in such clear order how important it is to focus on this issue. The challenges must not shut down the possibilities. I am pleased with the initiative the government has taken in this context, and that there is a good Nordic and Arctic dialogue on the way forward. The fact that the Arctic Council will have a permanent secretariat in Tromsø clearly shows that the theme is on the agenda and that Tromsø and the northern part of Norway are central to this work. I could have mentioned many important points in the Stoltenberg report, but I agree with this in this round. As you know, the Nordic Council has been subject to certain changes and, in this context, two sessions are to be conducted annually — one main session and one minor session with a main theme. I'm glad that the theme of the March session will be Arctic issues. Nor can we achieve a good north-eastern policy without Nordic cooperation having top priority. Therefore, the recent revitalisation of the Nordic Council has also been very important, and it will deliver results. The issue of frontier barriers is an old one, which is at least as topical today as it was in the past, as the rapporteur also mentioned. In this debate, it must not be forgotten, as the Minister of Cooperation pointed out, that the Nordic countries are different countries with different laws and different starting points. Therefore, there will always be some barrier barriers that cannot – and should not – be removed. I am pleased with the clarification given by the Minister of Cooperation here in the change of line. At the same time, we know that we have many obstacles that are decidedly unnecessary and – I would say – a scourge for our citizens who cross the boundaries both in work and in other ways. Border Obstacle Forums are established and are a good tool in this work. I am pleased that this is a topic that has now received great attention in our countries, and that there is a willingness for solutions. I have a great hope that the debate on border barriers which will be held in our parliaments in April will both be involved and find solutions and can help both citizens and the media to become involved in this important issue. Our Nordic countries have different positions both in relation to the EU and in relation to NATO. None of these can replace Nordic cooperation. On the contrary, this makes Nordic cooperation even more important to our countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e518	Cooperation between the Nordic countries has a long and deep history. The Nordic countries largely share a common value base and common culture and history in many areas. Conflicts between countries have largely been resolved by peaceful means, at least in recent, modern times. The Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers and a number of other cooperation bodies have extensive, good cooperation between countries. I would like to focus a little on the defence and security policy aspect mentioned in the Communication. This is actually a collaboration that saw its dawning beginning when the tension began to rise in the interwar period. The cold war made this difficult because the Nordic countries had different interests, different experiences and different security policy challenges. That is why different solutions have been chosen. Norway, Denmark and Iceland chose to link westward through NATO, Finland chose a kind of partnership agreement with the Soviet Union, and Sweden chose neutrality. Fortunately, today this situation has changed. The Cold War is over, the Soviet Union is dissolved, and the Nordic countries once again have greater degree of conflicting security policy interests. All in all, the Nordic region is still divided, but Sweden and Finland cooperate with NATO through a partnership agreement, and Nordic defence cooperation NORDEFCO deepens Nordic cooperation at both military and political level. In addition, Nordic countries cooperate with the EU. This is a positive development and cooperation that should be developed and deepened. Nordic countries are on an international scale small or medium-sized countries. All Nordic countries have large territories — either on land or at sea — and a relatively small population. Both the North and the Baltic Sea regions are likely to have increased strategic geopolitical significance in the future. As the suspension highlights, Nordic cooperation in defence and security policy can reduce costs and improve the operational capacity of countries. An example of this is the forthcoming association of Sweden and Finland with the NATO Joint Monitoring System via Norway. Cooperation on exercises, air defence, capabilities, logistics and acquisitions can bring good benefits to countries. Cooperation on international operations, for which we have seen some examples, also has a positive impact on countries. With these visions, it is also important to see the limitations of this cooperation further. I would like to stress strongly that defence cooperation must come as an addition to our relationship with NATO and the United States. It can't in any way replace this. It has neither the potential nor the capacity to replace these links. It is also important to bear in mind that there is no collective defence alliance between the Nordic countries. Therefore, care should be taken to establish a common defence structure where military capabilities are widely shared between countries. For example, Norway may: not build up national defence, given that other Nordic countries, such as Sweden and Finland, have a stronger national defence. None of these countries have any obligation to set up in case of a tense situation in Norway. History also shows that if tension increases, Nordic countries will have different interests, different situations, different threats, which will allow them to act differently. It will also be difficult to be able to deal with each other if there is a question of that in a tense situation. It is therefore important that Norway itself takes responsibility for having a credible defence and also a credible national defence. In this way, it is worrying what is now in the Professional Military Council of the Defence Manager. I hope the government does not follow up on the decline of the land defence that has been proposed there. Our main security policy relationship will still be the United States and NATO, and our main focus in security policy must be to strengthen this. But within this, as a complement to this, there is also a good potential for cooperation also on Norwegian security in the Nordic region, among others. in the north and in the Baltic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e533	The reduction of border barriers has been a priority in Nordic cooperation over the past ten years. And in the year that has passed, this has also been high on the agenda. There have been seminars and conferences on the topic, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Border Obstacle Forum for the important work they are doing. We've heard the story of Jyrki and Johanna about the life of a normal family. They have moved between the Nordic countries because of studies and jobs and have experienced that the Nordic countries have borders. At a conference in Stockholm in November, a study showed that we can significantly increase economic growth across the Nordic region by reducing the barriers. The main challenges are in the labour market, trade and investment. I want to underline the importance of this work. I even have two things I've worked with in the period. One is about import VAT, the other is about obtaining approved education. In the case of education: If you are a car-worker in Sweden, you cannot get a similar job in Norway, but if you are from Germany, you will be fine. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get I thought Sweden might have been a bit bigger in the car industry than Norway, but anyway – this is at least one thing it is now working on. It is good that Norway, which now has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, focuses on this, and that the Minister of Cooperation, Rigmor Aasrud, has so clearly underlined the responsibility of the departmental departments both to help remove existing obstacles and to avoid new developments. I think there's a lot of political attention to this to be able to solve many of the often complicated issues. I would also like to mention the importance of the Border Service of Morocco. The activities of the border services are cross-border and cross-border cooperation in order to help people and businesses to the maximum extent that they are free of friction across the border, thereby contributing to economic activity and growth. The activities are directly at the heart of what was behind the establishment of the 1954 Nordic Agreement on a common Nordic labour market. Thanks to the composition of the Border Service, with representatives from the authorities, an arena is created in which the actors concerned can meet directly and solution-orientedly discuss the different circumstances and laws of the respective countries. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the financing of the business, especially from the Norwegian side, and it has to end. We have to get away from more or less improvised solutions and into a fixed, predictable allocation. The border service carries out missions at national and international level, and it cannot be expected that local actors will be involved in financing the activities in the future. There is also a difficult work situation for those who work there. They must constantly relate to one and a year's budget, and they never know if those who are on the split layer today are up to next year. The Helsinki Agreement contains four important articles on transport. A unanimous committee refers to this and points out that a commitment in this area, as provided for in the agreement, is not reflected in the organisation of the Secretariat of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Committee assumes that the work of cooperation ministers in strengthening the policy priorities of the Nordic Council of Ministers also includes an assessment of how the priority areas of cooperation of the Helsinki Agreement can be addressed in the organisation. I agree with the Committee that the Transport Council was closed in 2006, but there is nothing to prevent it from being re-established. Transportation and transport are becoming important in the future. We rely on good transport corridors – not only between the Nordic countries, but also further out into Europe, both in road, rail, aviation and not least in the maritime route, see. North-area bet. We have some cooperation projects today, including: on some sections of the train. We have a good relationship with extending E16, which is now going to go from Bergen to Gävle. We have some cooperation in electrification of road transport, and in aviation and preparedness. However, I would like to stress the importance of strong and close cooperation in this area in order to promote efficient, competitive, safe and environmentally friendly transport and traffic in the Nordic and neighbouring regions, with a particular focus on areas where countries have common problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e556	In order for cooperation at the Nordic Council to focus on the awareness of our peoples as something valuable for more than those who take part in it personally, it is essential that the Council be able to concentrate on common actions that provide practical benefits in everyday life – benefits for Nordic citizens who may be born in one country, train in another, and work or retire in a third. That the Nordic population will be able to realize its dreams and specialities in a larger area than its native country is a natural development in a globalised world. Then we also need to make practical arrangements for this to happen within our cultural neighbourhood – and in the case of Scandinavia, our linguistic neighbourhood as well. One of the most useful things I feel to do as a member of the Norwegian delegation is to reduce border barriers between the Nordic countries. A major effort is being made in the so-called Border Obstacle Forum to identify and then remove unnecessary bureaucratic and legal barriers that hamper Nordic integration for citizens and businesses in their everyday lives. Some of the issues concern the population in border areas and their ability to benefit from services and services that are geographically closer to the other side of the border than in their own country. Whereas it is necessary to make it easier to change membership between the various a-boxes, unemployment funds, better coordinated taxation of artists and specialists working across borders, to coordinate VAT rules so as not to pay VAT on VAT, the common Nordic bottleneck and building materials standards; This illustrates some of the width of the themes. Similarly, problems arise in relation to public tenders and private purchases over the network due to different choices regarding national e-commerce infrastructure. It should, and it must, be possible to establish a common solution for digital signature, so-called e-ID, across the Nordic borders. To date, no common standard has been established in this area. The latter is an example of how, even though we have built up many old barriers to making life in the Nordic region easier, new barriers are emerging because different technical and legal solutions are being chosen. Therefore, each country, including Norway, needs to develop a greater level of awareness of its own legislation and standards that can help to reduce the friction between the different systems. In this context, I would like to point out that, in the area of Nordic cooperation in the field of security policy, despite some reservations about the opposite here today, it has given a direction which, fortunately, has been removed from the proposal by Thorvald Stoltenberg for a ‘formal political security guarantee’ between the Nordic countries. Instead, practical cooperation in monitoring, exercises and material procurement is emphasised. I stress this on this occasion because, at a previous crossroads during the discussion of this issue in Stortinget, we revealed very different ambitions for such a Nordic guarantee, which some of us thought could create confusion in relation to the basic one for all and all of us for the one provision of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. Stronger defence cooperation between the Nordic countries must be based on a similar approach to NATO and its security system, not by ambiguity of the outside world by issuing new and vague guarantees of solidarity. I will end by saying that I prefer our foreign minister's more realistic approach to this defence policy issue to that of the Stoltenberg report.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e575	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e578	The background to my participation in this debate is that I am a member of the Nordic Council and have been a representative of the Baltic Sea Cooperation, or the BSPC. There are many cooperative constellations in our neighbourhoods, and that's the sum of these that are important. This is why it is a task to coordinate both policies and activities so that there is not too much duplication of effort, but rather that one takes constructive advantage of each other’s specificities. This has been discussed in the BSPC and in the permanent committee we are in, and we have asked the Secretariat to collect information from other committees and organisations to avoid such duplication. The Baltic Sea is a highly polluted sea, and it is very important that environmental emissions decrease. In this context, a regulatory challenge, or a complete lack of regulation, of emissions from agriculture and traffic, both on land and at sea, etc. I can't say that evolution is as positive in this area as we could wish. It's just going too late. Norway, of course, had a strong focus on this in its presidential year under the Maritime Policy tab. We have also had a lot of focus on this in the BSPC, not least in our final document. Another important theme in Norway’s presidential year was trafficking in human beings, or trafficking. The working group that had worked on this could point to terrible mechanisms that were in swing when we were dealing with human trafficking. This is a theme we must have looked at, far beyond a presidential year. Finally, let me say a few words about cooperation both in the permanent committee and in the conference itself, which is held once a year. When cooperation involves eleven parliaments, eleven regional parliaments and five international organisations and some NGOs, it obliges everyone to come up with solutions that go in the direction we want, so that it does not just become a forum for exchange. We'll probably both meet in this collaboration. However, as we gather so many parliamentarians in a very important area, both for peace and security and for the environment and for the development of democracy, it also makes sense far beyond the Baltic Sea area. We need to see this in a much wider context, and that is why it plays a role for us in Norway and in the regions both north of us and far south of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e591	Several speakers have been involved in Nordic cooperation in defence and security policy as a very good example of follow-up and coherence between words and action in Nordic cooperation. With the gigantic distances in this sparsely populated area, I think we're just seeing in this area just the beginning of the need for increased cooperation. Defence equipment has an extreme price increase, the respective countries – perhaps with Norway as an exception – cut in their budgets, while the need for monitoring and control within Defence, Security, Environmental Monitoring, Rescue, etc. will only increase in the coming years. So this is an affordable follow-up to the ambitions in this area, which we just have to get even more involved in. The NORDECO collaboration gives an added value that we all gradually, I think, will get even more joy from, and so when NATO asks for more "Smart Defence", this is such an example. But I'm not sure if today's debate has brought us so many steps forward. We have great ambitions, and the concepts of ‘destruction’ and ‘frontier barriers’ are all-round key words in this debate. I think there's someone sitting there thinking that we should protect ourselves for success, and you're talking about preserving some border barriers to secure settlement in District Norway. The Minister of Cooperation was concerned about this. If we look at population developments in both Norway, Sweden and Finland, we see that it is on the ground resting. It's a paradox that we have border barriers between Norway and the rest of the Nordic region that are actually much, much larger than between well and well 20 European nations. It contributes in a negative way to strengthening and maintaining the classic North-South thinking. I am a little stated when I see a lack of follow-up. I attended the Barent Parliamentary Conference last year in Luleå, and a red thread there was developing infrastructure, building up border barriers and removing some extreme customs and currency barriers and other obstacles that make it impossible to expand the East-West thinking needed to create more dynamism in this region. One of the main points where follow-up was to establish an east-west aviation link. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will not take this initiative, but I hope, for all things in the world, that the Minister for Cooperation will follow up the ambitions of a common Nordic and... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e602	The government's communication on Nordic cooperation mentions Arctic cooperation and, in particular, cooperation in the Arctic Council. The ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in Nuuk in May 2011 is often referred to as a success. I think so too. Foreign Ministers signed a legally binding agreement on search and rescue cooperation in the Arctic. This is the first agreement in its battle between the Arctic countries, and it offers more committed cooperation in the Arctic. At the meeting, it was also decided to set up a working group to negotiate an agreement between the Arctic countries on oil protection preparedness. The idea is that it will become legally binding, clear responsibilities and better coordination between Arctic countries, in the same way as the search and rescue agreement. The fact that we are now, hopefully, also getting an agreement to improve cooperation with oil spills in the Arctic is very important. Of course, the main focus should still be the prevention of such emissions, but experience suggests that accidents can still occur, and that is to be well prepared. The expected agreement will ensure good coordination and cooperation between countries in the event of oil spills into the sea. This is important and a good start. But the Arctic seas are huge, and the infrastructure is very limited. With ever-increasing shipping traffic and increased resource use in the Arctic, the risk of accidents and emissions increases. It is essential that we also get better equipment and strengthened capacity in place. We therefore need stronger Arctic cooperation on oil protection equipment and capacity. We also need to work together on research and development to get equipment that can be used effectively under arctic conditions, where ice and cold in particular are major challenges. We need to have common exercises to test if the equipment is working together and if cooperation between countries is working. I believe that developments in this area must take place in cooperation with the oil industry, which must strengthen its efforts in these areas. It is encouraging that several of the largest oil companies recently launched a new programme to develop new oil protection equipment for use under Arctic conditions. I am aware that one step must be taken at a time in Arctic cooperation, but it is important that we think more steps forward and press for better cooperation in this area. Development of new and better equipment and cooperation on capacity are also an area where Nordic cooperation can take the lead in showing the way. If the Nordic countries can start cooperation here, the other Arctic countries can be brought together. Finally, I want to give recognition to the government, which has been assigned to the permanent international secretariat of the Arctic Council in Tromsø. This will provide an additional dimension to the polar environment in the city and help to consolidate Tromsø as the gateway to the Arctic and Norway as a pole nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e622	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e628	The President believes that this expansion is now decisive. It requires 85 representatives. Unless something extraordinary should happen, there is a short and unanimous voting ahead of us. The size goes to voting over today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-06.ana.ud2198e748	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
