ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e116	Honourable co-representatives! Former employee representative of the Workers' Party in Troms, Colonel Alfred Meyer Henningsen, is dead, 94 years old. With Alfred Henningsen, one of the last eyewitnesses of some of the most dramatic experiences of World War II in Germany’s occupied Norway is gone. The meeting began at the command school in Harstad and went to the teaching school in Tromsø, when he was employed as an intelligence agent for the Russians in 1943. Among other things, he sent messages to Murmansk about German military operations, until he had to flee to Sweden. In England, Alfred Henningsen was trained as one of the first commandos in the Norwegian defense. He made four trips to the German occupied Norway, on the one hand by Catalina planes and on the other by motor torpedo boats. It was during the German retreat that he joined a strike with German soldiers and was hit by the shots. For the last weeks of the war, he spent as a prisoner of war at Akershu's fortress in Oslo. After the war, Henningsen took officer training. He served in the German Brigade, and later he became battalion commander at Setermoen. In 1955 Alfred Henningsen became rapporteur in Bardu. Road construction and power lines became two of his taboos. His involvement in local politics led him to the Stortinget. The event represented Troms on the Stortinget for 12 years, from 1961 to 1973. In his first period, he was a member of the Military Committee, then of the Foreign and Constitutional Committee. For the last four years, he was on the Social Committee, and then on the Defence Committee. As a politician, Alfred Henningsen was spontaneous and not afraid to express his own opinions, even if they were controversial. In 1983 he protested against the party's turnaround in the double decision on the deployment of medium-range rockets in Europe. In the years at Stortinget, Henningsen was twice a delegate to the UN General Assembly. He was also a member of the Government's delegation to the Interparliamentary Union. In 1972 he was very committed to membership of the European Community. He thought the EEC would prevent new wars, abuses and Nazism. Europe was to be united in peace. We thank Alfred Meyer Henningsen for his commitment to the service of society and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e144	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e158	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e172	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. The President also proposes that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e181	In December 2011, the United Nations General Assembly adopted an additional protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides a complaint mechanism for violations of children’s rights. This Protocol was submitted for signature on 28 February of this year. Two countries have so far ratified this additional protocol. It has therefore not entered into force, as it can only happen when ten countries have. Many people are very concerned that Norway should ratify this additional protocol. There are several people who have requested information about what is happening to the case and who are asking for progress. When the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee had a hearing on the UN communication, which is to be dealt with after Christmas, we received, among other things. the UNICEF report that we should have a firm investigation mechanism in this type of case and that there should be transparency about what is happening. It is an important signal that the government and the foreign minister must take with them. Many good arguments have also been put forward for the ratification of the Additional Protocol, arguments such as that will strengthen the rights of children internationally, that it will send an important signal, and that a good safety net for children is also provided in Norway. There are probably more representatives of the Stortinget who believe that in view of the good arguments available, Norway should only be able to ratify this additional protocol. The Committee has agreed that we want to review the impact – both benefits and disadvantages – before drawing a final conclusion in order to identify different aspects and obtain a good basis for decision-making. However, it is also worth mentioning that the Committee's position states that in this review the intention of the proposers to strengthen the protection of children's rights should be emphasised, and that it is important that Norway takes precedence over international issues relating to children. There are many countries that have the same discussions we have in Norway now. Sweden, which has not yet incorporated the Children’s Convention – as Norway has done, will have detailed investigations which will also address the additional protocol that we are discussing here today. The Committee considers that Norway may have a high interest in following the discussions taking place in Sweden and gain experience from the work done there. I am pleased that the committee has a unanimous proposal here today. The proposal is that we ask the government to carry out an investigation that makes benefits and disadvantages visible by ratifying the supplementary protocol on the right of individual redress to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child by the spring of 2013, and that the government then submits a case to the Storting appropriately. It is also important to clarify that the Committee says that we need to clarify in a timely manner what Norway believes in this matter – that is important. Finally, I would like to commend the Committee on constructive cooperation in this matter. Now it is that we always use to be constructive in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, but it is not always we promote common proposals. So we're doing that today, and I think that's very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e198	For the Left, all the international conventions guaranteeing human rights are important conventions. It is important that they are ratified, and it is important that a person be given the right to complain. But we have had a special commitment to the Children's Convention, both in terms of the last ratification, and that the implementation of the entire Children's Convention in Norwegian law occurred when we last sat with the Minister of Justice. So we've had a great commitment to this over time. When we promoted this proposal the last day before Stortinget went to the summer vacation, we were delighted that we received so much support, and that it was promoted by all four opposition parties. I would have thought that this might have been a matter we could agree on in Stortinget. The fact that the Foreign Affairs Committee has now presented a proposal to assess not only the benefits but also the disadvantages of ratifying the Additional Protocol, I believe that it is a very critical wording. I want to explain that. It is not just that I believe it is important that children should also have the same remedies as adults. We have ratified all the parts that go on adult rights in this field, and I don't understand why you should wait for the children. I'm also very excited about what disadvantages you want to discover. I expect that we have a foreign minister who goes around the world and promises human rights high. I expect him to occasionally hit so hard on the table for human rights that the coffee cups splash at meetings. But it's e.g. Our sister parties in countries that fight for universal human rights are saying that the big appeal point that is being used when we raise this is, you're nothing better. When e.g. Russia is now implementing a system where all those receiving support from abroad are considered foreign agents, it is a system that they have picked up from the United States. The United States has the same system. They do not have the same bastant formulations, they are not as intolerant as the Russians in their implementation – they only point to the United States. When we travel around the world and fight for children's rights, fight for fundamental rights that we really take as a matter of course in Norway, this is what we get in the flint: how can you be so for this, you who can't even sign the protocol that gives children access to justice? So this weakens Norway internationally when we're going to fight for human rights. It also weakens the rights of Norwegian children. I don't understand why children shouldn't have the same rights as adults. I don't understand why we want to ratify international conventions relating to adults, but have disadvantages in ratifying children's rights. I have two arguments that we should have done this much faster – firstly, that it will ensure Norwegian children's rights, and secondly, that it will strengthen Norway's position internationally when we fight for human rights, and especially children's rights. I don't want our foreign minister ever to be met with that this doesn't make you sail, so why should you expect us to do it? We need to have a much more transparent profile in terms of rights, human rights and children's rights if we're to have the weight internationally that allows us to raise human rights higher, which I think we should do. It's hard to beat so hard on the table that there's a little splash in a cup of coffee, if we can't even keep this in order at home. I don't see any arguments against either. I'm curious if the Minister of Foreign Affairs is able to present the disadvantages of having children receive these rights, because they're hard to imagine. I understand that someone might be afraid that these asylum-seekers get a right to complain that they wouldn't otherwise have, but I'd like to give it to them. So I don't see it as a disadvantage. Nor do I see that the Norwegian authorities need to have a framework to deal with when adopting national legislation in the area of children, which is the international framework attached to the Children's Convention. I think the Children's Convention should have been lifted a lot higher, and I think we should have brushed it a lot more shiny. I believe that all children should know what rights they have in relation to the Convention, and I would also like to have been with them and given them the right to complain under that Convention. I see no reason for us to squander, I see no reason why we should not sign, I see no reason why we should not ratify, and I see no reason why we should not implement this in Norwegian law. I think this is important for Norwegian children, but it is also very important for children around the world that Norway does not lag behind in this area. On that basis, I take up the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e219	The representative of Stepe Schei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e222	Realization of human rights is not something you can do from an à la carte list where you pick someone and leave it to take others. The realization of human rights is about an absolute set of rights, which are to be realised, and which are to be put first in our policies if we are talking about foreign policy, development policy, trade policy, or, for that matter, purely national policies such as health and social issues. Norway has incorporated the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into national law. It is important to safeguard the rights of children and there has been a great commitment to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to this Protocol. I think this is a good starting point for putting children's rights higher, both on the national and international agendas. This matter has, through a compromise – let me commend the rapporteur of the case for contributing to it – been given a strict deadline. This is for the right a leading point. I experience this as a victory in a matter that has been locked down for too long. The alternative to compromise had been that the four bourgeois parties had been defeated, and that the matter had been annexed to the Minutes. But now this is actually one of the few – let me say, one of the far too few – issues where the government parties and the government have shown a willingness to negotiate. It is positive that we have come to a unified solution that includes all the members of the committee. This is a matter that engages widely. Let's continue that commitment. Me and the Right look forward to the investigation presented to the Stortinget, and then we'll have to re-examine the discussion when you see both the positive and the negative aspects presented by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e233	This matter is on the agenda of the Storting because an overall opposition is more impatient than the government has been in bringing forward the question of ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Children's Convention. We are for the reasons that I think the representative Trine Skei Grande presented in an excellent way in his statement. We are also because we have perceived a inertia. Although in this context there has not been a very long time since the possibility of signing and then ratifying the supplementary protocol, this is a matter of great political importance. The Committee's work has shown that this impatience is shared by an overall increase. What the representative of Skovholt Gitmark now pointed out is that under the current government, it is very rare for any proposals that are being promoted here in the main hall to have a majority, in particular proposals that contain a government order. The fact that, through good work in the Foreign Affairs Committee, a single committee has been set up behind a government order, which means that, with a concrete deadline, the assessments that must always be made of the impregnation of incorporating an international protocol into Norwegian law are to be made, I believe that the proposal is as close to being implemented as possible – at least as it was intended to be in this case. I am therefore pleased, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that we now seem to be able to decide that the government has to do this review by the spring of 2013, and then present the matter to the Storting appropriately. I assume that this happens without undue delay, and that is, we are as close to fulfilling the original proposal as it is possible to come without voting for it. Therefore the Christian People's Party will join the setting here in the hall when we vote later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e244	Like the previous speakers, I would like to commend the Committee for a unanimous vote, and I would like to say that I share both the Committee's wish and the intention – and impatience – that this matter must now move forward. I will begin by stating, as many have said, that children’s rights are stronger in Norway than in most countries. Norway remains one of the few countries in the world that has incorporated the Children’s Convention into national law with precedence over other legislation. In other words, the Children’s Convention is Norwegian law, and infringements of which can normally be judged in Norwegian courts. In Sweden, as referred to in the recommendation, it is now necessary to consider whether to incorporate both the Children’s Convention and, where appropriate, the additional protocol into Swedish law, while the first, as I said, has already happened in Norway. I am glad that Norway is early out in that way. The government also prioritises the work on children’s rights internationally. For example, Norway is the country most often addressing children’s rights during the country review in the UN Human Rights Council. We also support a number of targeted actions on children’s rights, including: Norway provides both financial and political support to the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict, who plays a key role in the work of releasing child soldiers worldwide. And there's a number of other examples. That is why I have to remind you that what we are talking about now is whether the Children's Convention applies in Norway – it does – or whether we are working to promote children's rights internationally – we do. What we're talking about now is whether we're going to join an additional protocol that gives individual appeals to an international, politically appointed committee that will thus in practice be independent of both Norwegian elected and Norwegian courts. This is a question that goes far beyond whether or not we think children should have a high level of legal protection in Norway. The Additional Protocol is completely new and has not entered into force. To date, only two States have ratified the Protocol. This is Gabon and Thailand, while 35 states have signed. Ten parties are required before its entry into force. So there is nothing unnatural about the fact that the government has not yet taken a final decision on whether Norway should join the protocol. It is quite reasonable, as the Committee unanimously proposes, for an impact assessment to be carried out before such a decision is taken. In the wake of such a review, the government will consider the further consideration of the question of signing the protocol and submit the matter to the Stortinget. Then I would like to stress that I am pleased that the Committee wants to review both the advantages and the disadvantages, or as Gitmark’s representative said, ‘both the positive and the negative aspects’. I notice that the representative, Skei Grande, believes that we only need to assess the benefits. It seems to me to be a rather special investigation, which should in principle only determine the benefits. Then you could just as well not ask for an investigation, because it's like balancing arguments against each other that are part of an investigation. We will consult Norwegian civil society along the way in the process and set aside time for it. Many of the issues that have been the subject of investigation and consultation in the context of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights are also relevant in relation to the Child Protocol. However, it is necessary to carry out an independent and concrete assessment of the consequences of any accession to the Child Protocol. The investigation will shed light on exactly where the similarities and differences are. And once again, to the representative of Skei Grande, it's not quite right that we have a different standard for children than for adults, because in this convention on economic, social and cultural rights, which, to a large extent, concerns adults, there is a correspondingly important constitutional problem. I believe that a representative of a liberal party who is engaged in the relationship between executive, judicial and legislative power should also be interested in the constitutional aspects of this. In other words, we are doing well to have a thorough debate on the effects of joining international complaints systems in general and in particular on how this will affect the relationship of power between Norwegian elected, Norwegian and international expert bodies. I will conclude by saying again that I am pleased that the committee is unanimous. The government will be ready to follow up what we are asked for by the committee, and I share, as I said, both the Committee's intention and its impatience in this matter, and hope that this will contribute to a positive progress in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e270	It's going to be line change, limited to up to six lines. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn two lines and is given an opportunity to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e275	I could have drawn myself to six lines as well, if there had been occasion for that. The constitutional considerations that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did, I must admit that I understand very little. We have ratified the right of appeal of adults. We have ratified the right of appeal for many international conventions, sail if we see a lot of problems related to children having it. If you comply with the Children’s Convention – if we in Norway are so capable that we always comply with the Children’s Convention – what is the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e284	This is, of course, a question to be considered by this investigation. The argument put forward by those who believe that this is a problem is that some of the Convention’s rules are discretionary and can be implemented differently in different countries. There is no doubt that the rights apply, but how the different rights, which are not always very specific, are to be implemented, can vary from municipality to municipality, from county to county and from country to country. The concern they have, those who say that this should be investigated, is, of course, just about the consequences it has for the space chosen by the people to take adapted decisions, and the room of Norwegian courts to judge whether there is a breach of rules that apply in full in Norway, or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e290	I would have liked to meet these ‘those’ who the Minister for Foreign Affairs is talking about, because they are not much in the public debate. I should have liked to smoke them out and sit at a table and talk to them. But I want to talk about the others that the Foreign Minister also has to talk to when he's going to discuss human rights, and then I'm going to ask: Has it ever happened when the Foreign Minister has brought up children's rights, human rights, with regimes that practice this in ways that we very disagree with, that he has met something about Norwegian rules, Norwegian practice, that can weaken the argument when he knocks on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e295	We have been very concerned that we will make progress in the so-called UPR – Universal Periodic Review – as we do in the Human Rights Council. There we have presented a number of issues in Norway that we believe deserve review, and then they have been discussed extensively. We've done that because we think we should go ahead and be open. There are a number of countries, including countries that obviously have a significantly lower standard of human rights than Norway, which then tackle the things we ourselves present and use them in this kind of discussion. For my part, I have not met this argument related to the lack of ratification of the supplementary protocol, but I do not have a full overview of any other representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at any time. I haven't experienced it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e302	The Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed impatience in the matter, and that is a sign that he has taken on board the impatience behind the proposal for a representative and the position of the committee. It makes it natural for me to ask the following follow-up questions: What kind of progress does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see separately in the investigation work to be done, and when can the Storting expect to have a case presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e307	I can inform the representative, Højbräten, that I have been impatient for a long time for my part. Therefore, I can say that before I saw the setting, I shared the impatience that I was now expressing. I believe that this is a question that needs to be clarified, because we do not have an answer to this, is not a situation we can live with in the long run. So I'm open to two possible answers, either that we agree to the protocol, or that we don't. But that's what needs to be investigated. The very concrete answer to the question from the representative Højbråten about progress is that we will launch the investigation immediately, and we will carry it out during the spring session. Then, while there's still a spring session, we'll present or inform the Storting about where we are and how that investigation has gone, and then we'll come back with a case to Stortingen in an appropriate way when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e314	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so clearly confirms his own impatience and that it is not newly won. What I want to ask is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirms that the Storting should deal with this matter in this big deal, i.e. during the current growing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e321	I can confirm that I will do exactly what the committee calls for, which is that the investigation will take place in the spring session, and that the Storting will be familiar with the outcome of the investigation. Moreover, whether we are able to promote a specific case will be a consequence of how the investigation lands.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e326	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e329	Yesterday I agreed to record a short video with advertising for the big youth. It was one of a lot of similar events I've been attending in recent years. I share the commitment of all proposers to children's human rights and democratic rights. It is one of those aspects of Norway that may be all, very best, and which also apply in our cooperation with other countries, not only at national level, but also locally. One of the most important aspects, for example: at my home municipality Trondheim’s partnership with other cities, for example. Ramallah in Palestine and Petah Tiqwa in Israel is strengthening children’s and young people’s participation through organs and through organisation. There is a great deal of commitment around the Children’s Convention and the Additional Protocol on Complaint Mechanisms. Norway has long been at the forefront of the exercise of children’s rights. Children have protection in Norway, as well as access to participation and influence, which I have talked about in the past, which is not really the case in many other countries. Norway’s international promotion of children’s rights is important, not just for children in Norway, but for children worldwide. Children need a country that speaks their case. The Children’s Convention is therefore incorporated into Norwegian law. There is a strong political consensus in Norway that this should be the case. I fully agree with the representative Skei Grande that Norway is going to be a country that beats the table so that there are splashes in the coffee cups as far as human rights are concerned. And they are. Norway shall not stand back with regard to human rights. That countries that violate human rights respond that you are not better themselves is not a situation Norway should face. I am therefore a hot follower of ratifying the supplementary protocol on appeal procedures, and I am concerned that Stortinget will soon be presented with a case. For example, the Government needs to investigate different aspects of ratification and, as indicated in the comments in the unanimous vote of the Committee, this is the case. issues related to decisions in Norwegian judicial bodies and in elected bodies. I think that's okay, and I'm very pleased that all the parties in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee have agreed on the vote. It ensures rapid progress in the matter and a solid decision-making basis, and I don't think anyone is ashamed of that. Civil society will be heard, which is also an important part of Norwegian democracy and decision-making processes. As I said, I share the commitment of the proposers in this matter, and I am pleased that the committee has agreed on the setting. As far as the representative Skei Grande's arguments are concerned, I think most of them are good, but the Children's Convention is part of Norwegian law. Countries that violate children’s rights have no cause when they might accuse Norway of not being any better – and I would warn a little about drawing a picture of that. Although I agree with the representative Skei Grande on the matter, I do not believe that countries that violate the rights of children, and that do not follow the Children's Convention, have any case if they were to accuse Norway of not being on their side. And as I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it has not been the case either. But I look forward to the government presenting a matter soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e348	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e351	Sometimes I think it's kind of nice to discuss politics because you disagree and get to smoke out disagreements, and then you get to fight each other. Some arguments are good, and some are bad. The problem here is that I can't get hold of the arguments. The reason why the Left reacts to what has become the consensus of the Foreign Affairs Committee is very important, as the Foreign Minister said, the word ‘disadvantage’. I do not think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has any good explanation for this. I also struggle in the public debate with the fact that no one is calling for why this could be a disadvantage. I would like to have smoked them out, I would like them up for debate, I would like to hear the arguments here. I don't think they're good. The Foreign Minister claims that the only argument is that the Children's Convention is unclear. The Children’s Convention is not unclear. It is part of Norwegian law, it was implemented when the Left sat with the Minister of Justice, as part of Norwegian law. It's not unclear. So if there are uncertainties about the Children's Convention that make it impossible for us to have the right to complain, I don't think the argument holds. I think we should soon get on the table which disadvantages this is. The left will vote subsidiaryly for what the Foreign Affairs Committee has presented. If there had been a consensus that there would be a matter for spring on ratification, we would have had no problem, but there might have to be a reasoning for spring on why we shouldn't ratify it. It is in this proposal. It may seem to the government that the disadvantages are too great. I think it's hard to have a debate where you debate with someone who doesn't come out with their arguments. Who is it that gets a right of appeal they shouldn't have had? Which children are going to complain, which should not have been allowed to complain? I want to know. Some people in this room have to be able to explain what disadvantages you want to put on the table, and why you think it has been so important that the disadvantages are on the table that you also mention it in the proposal. We could have had a proposal to consider the consequences of the proposal, and then put forward a case, but no, one should also discuss the disadvantages that might lead to that one might not get a case, that one might not get a ratification, without someone in this Chamber being able to explain what disadvantages it is, or what children it is that are now getting a right of complaint they should not have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e364	I note that absolutely everyone in this Chamber expresses joy at the fact that the Children's Convention is incorporated into Norwegian law and agrees that the Children's Convention applies in full. It is not a question of whether it should apply more or less — it is fully applicable in Norway. You can also use the Norwegian legal system to find out if there is a breach. I have not said that the Children's Convention is unclear – I have said that some of the principles that are set up have a discretionary character. It could be quite practical things, like what it really means to organize, for example. for a disabled child in a specific, concrete schooling situation, etc. There might be different answers to that. The point is that an individual right to appeal to an international expert body is given a new legal status, where, in addition to the ordinary Norwegian judicial system and, where appropriate, the human rights courts that are above it, such as the European, have an expert body on the side. I'm not saying no. On the contrary, it may be very good that the conclusion to this is that we should say yes, but I do not think it is unreasonable that a unanimous committee should vote in favour of these aspects being examined. I repeat that there is no difference between adults and children. For many of the same issues, we have in connection with the so-called ESC Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and this concerns the view of individual access to justice for international committees – more than the extent to which one wants to fulfil children’s rights or not. But I concluded with what I started with. I'm happy for the big consensus. I'm glad we're now getting an important job going. I agree that these are issues that need to be resolved in Norway, so that we have a good answer, and I will do my part to ensure that this work is done as quickly and effectively as possible, and that all stakeholders are consulted in a good and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e378	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e392	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e401	One of the greatest crises of our time is the food crisis. It's a defeat that we don't have the ability to distribute resources between us in a better way. Therefore some people die of hunger, while others die of abundance. The international food market has been characterised by instability and record prices in recent years. Several commodity prices were higher than twice the average in the first half of 2008 for the period 2002–2004. Since then, prices have fluctuated, but at the same time stabilised at a significantly higher level than before the food crisis in 2008. The development of high food prices has a significant impact on poor people in developing countries who spend a large part of their income on food. This makes global food supply one of the key challenges for development. The UN has estimated that food production needs to increase globally by 70 pst. towards 2050. The representative proposal from the Progress Party addresses issues that are important for discussion. The debate we have today must also be seen in the light of the dramatic situation in the world food market and the common objective of lifting more people out of poverty. An instrument is to better facilitate developing countries to take a greater part in world food trade so that they can achieve economic growth and improve food security. The representative proposal proposes changes in the Norwegian practice of the GSP trading system with developing countries. The aim is to contribute to increased trade with developing countries and, in the view of the proposers, to ensure a greater choice, better quality and more competitive prices of agricultural products for the Norwegian population. Through the GSP scheme, Norway grants duty-free and quota-free market access for a total of 93 countries. Nevertheless, we must state that the freedom of customs and allowances is not sufficient to increase exports by the poorest developing countries. Let me stress that this is not an expression of lower ambitions for increased trade with developing countries. Norway, which imports more than half of the food we eat, has great potential for increasing imports of agricultural products from developing countries. An overall committee considers that there are a number of challenges that need to be addressed in order for the poorest countries to increase their exports. In most cases, customs duties do not constitute the main barriers to increased imports from poor countries, but internal conditions — for example. related to logistics, quality requirements and not least general competitiveness in an international market. In many cases, it is important first to be able to master local and regional markets in order to develop competitiveness. The GSP scheme has been subject to several changes since its establishment in 1971 and today includes 93 countries. No other developed country has a zero-duty scheme covering as many countries as Norway. The proposed changes by the government mean that the second poorest countries are included in a country category of their own, so that they get better import conditions than rich developing countries, but not zero duties than the very poorest countries. An important consequence of this change is that countries that change their status from low-income countries to lower middle-income countries will not experience a dramatic transition to much higher tariffs. The Government has already proposed measures to take account of many of the proposals of the representatives of the Progress Party. Nevertheless, I allow myself to point out the one-sidedness we find in the proposal. The Government’s proposal to amend the GSP scheme is designed to improve market access for developing countries and lower middle-income countries while maintaining important mechanisms that create long-term stability for Norwegian food production. An example is the proposal by the Party of Progress to introduce duty-free imports of plant products from lower middle-income countries on the DAC list. This will, of course, indicate that Norwegian plant production is adversely affected and has foreseeable consequences. I want to make it clear to the representatives of the Progress Party that not even a central party politician with great ambitions on behalf of Norwegian agriculture believes that Norway is ever going to be completely self-sufficient in food. Nevertheless, it is important for us to assume that all states through the UN have committed themselves to ensuring food security for their citizens. Our position on each country's right and duty to food production is about solidarity and contributing to a world where too many hunger. We do not strengthen the world's need for more food by terminating Norwegian food production. Long-term food preparedness is also a common good for us by taking care of and developing a national production apparatus. This policy can be perfectly combined with the pursuit of trade with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e431	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the review that has been carried out, and also the Committee for its serious involvement in these proposals. These are a number of proposals that we are promoting, both in budgetary terms and in other appropriate ways, in order to liberalise Norwegian trade in general and trade in agricultural products in particular, and not least towards developing countries – in order to promote trade with them, as we have understood, is a political objective shared across the boundaries of the parties. The challenge is to create that space of action, the possibilities, that make this increase in volume beyond what we see today. We understand that the red-green government and the majority have a balanced approach to this. We do not necessarily agree on how to land on the various proposals, but we take note of that. I would like to comment on what is mentioned in the majority comment, and which the representative Breck was in, that all states through the UN have committed themselves to ensuring food security for their citizens. That's absolutely correct. But this is not necessarily done alone — and not the best — by producing as much as possible within a country’s own borders. Keeping open trade borders and being able to exchange goods – international division of labour – does not only promote the optimisation of the advantages of different countries. It promotes development. I would simply say that trade is peace-making and breaks down barriers between countries. So this UN objective must not be interpreted into a track where it is used as an argument for strong import protection. There's going to be an error ending, seen from our side. Then, of course, we believe in globalisation and free trade as a political instrument. So we're going to continue with this kind of proposal. We also have proposals in the budget, which take up some of what the representative Breck was about, namely that there are many local conditions in some developing countries, in regions of developing countries, which make it impossible to reach the world market. That's exactly where we agree. Working on trade facilitation in developing countries, among the poorest countries, enabling them to reach our markets in a good way, is important. So we have to see the context here. It's not just about import protection. It's not just about liberalizing. It's about other things, too. But it's also about liberalizing here. Then, from time to time, arguments such as the need for some developing countries to be able to protect their own markets will be met. Yeah, I understand you're promoting that argument. I do not necessarily agree with that, but it cannot – at least – be in the interest of developing countries that Norway protects its own markets. I am pleased that the representative Breck made such a clear point that it was about protecting Norwegian interests and Norwegian jobs. I disagree that overall this is the best way to protect Norwegian interests, and when you take note here of hundreds of thousands of jobs that you want to protect under import protection, you have jumped over, for example. border trade issues, etc. It goes too far into a discussion where we try to focus on developing countries and their conditions, but the whole thing here is far wider and more comprehensive than what this case gives the impression. I'm sure we'll have many opportunities to continue discussing these kinds of questions in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e448	I want to start by stating that increased trade is in Norwegian interest. The strong increase in wealth seen by parts of the world after World War II is largely due to increased trade and closer economic integration. In fact, the countries with the highest economic growth are also the countries that have developed their trade most. Thus, there is a strong link between trade and economic growth. The Norwegian economy is very export oriented. This means that the economic situation in Norway depends largely on developments in the world economy. Since the world economy is flourishing in times of increased economic relations, Norway, as well as the rest of the world, will be served with increased trade. Trade is reducing poverty, which is one of the most important means of raising developing countries. More jobs give people the opportunity to work out of poverty and thus create a more even distribution of the resources we have. In addition, there is a mutual dependence between poverty reduction on the one hand and respect for human rights on the other. For the Right, human rights is one of the most important areas of development policy. If we look at Norwegian conditions, Norway is the net importer of agricultural products and is thus defined as a vulnerable country when it comes to agricultural products. In 2010, we imported food and drink for 23.9 billion. kr. Exports this year are $4.5 billion. kr, an increase of 10,5 pst. from 2009. By comparison, Norway exported Norwegian fish for 53 billion. kr in 2010. But let there be no doubt: right-wing wants a Norwegian agriculture; we want to facilitate value creation throughout the country. To achieve this, we need a balanced import protection, and the Right agrees that import protection is an important part of Norwegian food production. However, globalisation needs to take place, and we need to assess how to create competitiveness in Norwegian agriculture. We should focus on strengthening competitiveness rather than exploiting the space for action in import protection, as food producers’ organisations call it. The government announced in September of this year the transition from the krona to the percentage of customs duties on a number of agricultural products. In this way, the government will increase customs duties. That's not the right direction to go in, we mean. Although it is isolated within the framework of the WTO Agreement, it is contrary to the spirit of the EEA Agreement. For the right, it is also important to safeguard the interests of consumers. We actually produce food for Norwegian consumers, so that they can eat the most saturated Norwegian products if they want it. It is this freedom of choice that must lie at the heart of it, and the freedom of choice that holds right over and works for it. Right hopes that we will have a lot of trade negotiations in our near future, because it is in Norwegian interest to set up a new WTO agreement, and it is in Norwegian interest that trade increases from today's level. Norway needs partners in this discussion. Thus, it means much what kind of symbols we use, what kind of symbols form the basis of Norwegian policy, for Norway, with the exception of fish, has the highest price level of food and non-alcoholic and alcoholic beverages throughout Europe. The reason is, of course, complex, but one reason is the Norwegian objective of the protection of certain agricultural products. The right believes that we need a sober assessment of what our trade policy costs consumers in terms of increased price and reduced selection, and let there be no doubt that it is in Norwegian interest to increase trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e461	This is about the so-called GSP scheme, i.e. imports of agricultural products from developing countries. But now the contributions from the Progress Party and the Right show that this is actually the third round of Norwegian agricultural policy covered as other matters. 14 days ago, we had an interpellation on the proposal to change the import protection for a few products from a dollar to a percentage. Last week it was disguised as a debate on EEA obligations, and now it has been promoted during a kind of smoke blanket that will help the poor farmers in the poor countries. So it's really about the Right and the Advance Party want a conversion of Norwegian agricultural policy, and that's all right, they have to stand for it, but I think it's good to stress that this is what this is really about. The representative, Morten Höglund, expressed, to some extent to our satisfaction, that he had some understanding of a balanced approach, that a certain level of customs protection was necessary. But it doesn't go very far that understanding. The right-wing representative, Mr Rafiq, also said that we should have a balanced protection of imports. But when that is said, it is said that there must also be competitiveness in Norwegian agriculture, and then the article ends with a great deal of care, not for the poor farmers in developing countries who will have more opportunity to sell their goods, but for the price level of Norwegian consumers. It would have been clearer for the debate if one could present one's views on where this balance point is going. It would have been very useful to know whether a government with the Advance Party and the Right – if it were to happen after the next election – would change the new import protection imposed by going from the krone to the percentage duty for a few goods, whether it would be reversed, and, if so, what level you would like to apply to the krone duty. What at least, through what is in the budgetary positions of these parties – in particular the Progress Party – but also through these – we shall say – is half-covered, half-chambling interpellation debates, can be established, is that Norwegian agriculture is facing a significant transformation if there is to be a government shift next harvest. This will have a major impact on the structure of Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian consumers may get some products that are more reasonable, I don't know, but it will have some consequences that most people will face, not only among those who produce food, not only among those who further process food, but also among those who live and work beyond living communities. We have a GSP scheme from Norway which is a good contribution to getting exports from poor countries. It has been reviewed, as it says in the setting, several times, it has been expanded, and it has been improved. It also goes up to different levels or steps so that the poorest countries do not compete with the poorer countries, and so that when you go up this path, you still have an advantage, but that you do not get out of competition by those who do not. I think we have a good GSP system, which we have developed, and which the government is prepared to continue to develop, in the light of the opportunities offered. But it will be exciting to see if we will have the fourth debate on Norwegian agricultural policy next week and what kind of disguise it will come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e476	I note – like the representative Svein Roald Hansen – that the basic view of agricultural policy is being taken back quickly. We have just had concrete proposals, as has been pointed out here, in the budgetary procedure for improvements to the GSP system. They were adopted with, inter alia, Right-wing votes, all parties, except the Progress Party, joined this in the Storting in connection with the 2013 budget line, so there is a broad consensus on that. But I have some pleasure in the points made by the members of the Progress Party in the Committee, who believe that «Norwegian agricultural policy is out of date, and that we need a new course in which the farmer is released through deregulation, reduced subsidies and free competition without privileges to the cooperatives». Then I think quickly that the farmer is released from agriculture and can start with something else instead, and that would, in my view, be contrary to what is widely agreed on. I also note that the opposition has different views on this issue. The key point here is that trade – as the representative Rafiq rightly says – is of vital interest to Norway. Norway is one of the world's most open economies, we're for free trade, we're for opening up markets, we've done it, and we live on the fact that others have open markets. That is why we have an active involvement in the World Trade Organisation, so we are in the EEA Agreement and take the responsibility that comes with it very seriously, and that is why we – as the representative Rafiq just said – argue for further liberalisation of world trade. But we must not believe that just removing barriers and tariffs solves the problem, because there are a number of other issues related to particularly low-income countries that have to do with quality, price, transport and logistics. This is why the government also has an active policy in the area of trade-oriented aid, support for industrial development and other investments. It is not right for the market to fully regulate itself. It is therefore important that the aid policy also complements the work on the reduction of customs barriers with an active aid-oriented trade policy. I believe, in essence, that the issue of the greatest degree of disagreement does not concern GSP schemes in the case of industrial products – we have just agreed to remove all industrial tariffs for 29 countries in the lower intermediate income group – but the view of Norwegian agricultural policy. I also share the wish that soon, after all these rounds, especially from the Right and the Advance Party, we can get a clarification on what kind of agricultural policy Right and the Advance Party really wants to conduct. I believe that there is a question that stands unanswered, after a number of attempts here in the hall to clarify it. We understand that the opposition will vote against the proposals made in this year's budget statement, we are aware of that. But will any government end up with parties other than those that now rule, reverse this, and then to what level? I think a lot of voters are very interested in that and something confused about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e483	It's going to be line change. The President should also bear in mind that, in other words, it is the GSP system that is being debated here and that, according to the rules of the Stortinge, we should stick to the subject of debate. However, I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is also asking questions in the field of agriculture, so it may be a little difficult to keep that principle in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e488	I am comforted both by the President and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the questions they have asked will be answered, if not precisely in the Questionnaire for the Foreign Minister's comments. However, a GSP scheme which in practice means almost nothing in the case of Norwegian trade with developing countries contributes to Norway being the world country with the highest food prices. That is when it comes to asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the government is satisfied with the policy that has led to Norway having the highest food prices in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e495	Let me first make it clear that I did not ask a question, but that I referred to a question that has been asked by a number of other representatives through several rounds of discussion on about the same topic. So to the question I was asked. I am very pleased that Norway has managed, despite being a high-cost country, to maintain a differentiated Norwegian agriculture throughout the country. I believe that, like other wealthy countries, we must do so through a combination of a certain amount of import protection and subsidies in the field of agriculture. It is true that food prices in Norway are high in the store, but the proportion of disposable income consumed by the Norwegian average consumer on food is significantly lower than in, for example, other European countries. With regard to income, agricultural products in Norway are not particularly expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e502	Do I understand correctly when I conclude that the government believes that the high food prices in Norway are within the government’s wishes and that the government has no strategy to change this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e508	Now it's not like that food prices are essentially what's under the Constitutional Area of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, there's a lot of concern about the territory of several departments, but I'm still giving the Minister of Foreign Affairs the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e511	I would like to point out, as the President says, that the question can be repeated favourably to, for example, My colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, when the representative Myhre gets a chance to do so. Of course, it is not an end in itself to have the highest possible prices, but I say that there is an overall agricultural policy that makes it possible to have both high quality food, good food, good access to food in Norway, while at the same time being able to maintain a differentiated agriculture. That whole thing is I'm glad that we can practice, and I'm worried about the prospect that this should be fundamentally challenged by a Prom Party and Right-dominant government if that should occur against presumptuousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e516	Then I use the opportunity to take a reply. What I'm asking is what measures does the Minister for Foreign Affairs have to make more trade with developing countries? For approx. A year ago, the Evening Post had a headline entitled ‘Norwegian trade policy harms the world’. Norway is therefore the worst in trade with developing countries. Those who have made this ranking believe that, among other things: is due to the high level of customs tariffs. Furthermore, when a country such as the United Kingdom, In fact, Botswana has achieved good meat production and success – meat they export to Norway as a substitute for aid products – limits on how much meat they can produce. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain that? I would also like to remind you that former Minister of Assistance Erik Solheim after he left, in fact, said that business is better than assistance. Can the Foreign Minister say what he is proposing to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e523	The concrete answer to this is, among other things: the measures presented in the 2013 budget proposal relating to the GSP mechanism, to which the Storting joined by the votes of all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, and which have been explained earlier in the debate, inter alia. the removal of all industrial duties for 29 countries in the lower intermediate income group and other measures in this field. I would also like to say that since this government joined in 2005, imports of goods from the GSP countries have actually increased by 70pst. Imports from GSP countries have also increased their share of Norwegian imports of goods. It has increased at the same time in this period, but the proportion has increased from 10.2 to 13.4 pst. We may say that it is too low, but there has also been a positive trend in the proportion of imports from these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e530	To another thing, as I have been told by those who are importing, especially in the category of fair trade, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs is probably aware of: one has the challenge that many of, I was saying, the brands and producers are in the EU, and when one gets products from either Africa or South America, but puts on the logo in, for example. England, and then exporting to Norway, it's not zero. Is this something the Minister for Foreign Affairs will look into and remove customs duties on?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e535	To the extent that this particular question is under my responsibility, I can say that I can well look into it. Something more, it's not to say right now about that particular problem. But I want to say from the general undertone of the question that I also agree that trade is more important than assistance. I believe there is much more trade in the world than there are aid flows in the world, and it is important to facilitate that poor countries also get a share of that trade. This is done by reducing customs duties – agreed by the Progress Party and the Labour Party – and it must be done through a trade-oriented aid policy that helps to remove the other obstacles to the effective participation of the poorest countries in international trade flows. And there I'm simply not aware of what the view of the Advancement Party might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e540	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e545	I notice that the President is annoyed that we are talking a little bit of agricultural policy into a debate based on the representative proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party. After all, I must also show that the Progress Party has tabled ten proposals – these will be voted on during the budgetary procedure – and six of these ten proposals are, therefore, about agricultural policy. These are import arrangements for agricultural products, which of course have an impact on Norwegian agricultural policy, and therefore Norwegian agricultural policy will also be a side theme in the debate we are now having. The best thing we can do for the poor countries in the world is to include them – include them in the global economy, let them participate in world trade. But then it's sometimes someone succeeds in it. Some poor countries are able to export goods to countries such as Norway and others and compete with market shares. So what do you do? Yes, then the government's answer is to close the borders and keep popping on with billions above the aid budget, while the rest of us believe that this is actually right, it's actually good that the poor countries build up so that they can participate in the international trade in goods. Norway is one of the countries in the world that is perhaps the most dependent on free trade, and we have an economy that would collapse if other countries introduce such a restrictive trade policy as we sometimes get the impression of red-green politicians. The worst thing that can happen to the Norwegian economy is that you get an increased degree of protectionism based on the desire to protect your domestic markets. Free trade is thus the most important means of developing prosperity and well-being, democracy and social protection in developing countries. So this is what we are going to get back to during the budgetary procedure. I would just like once again to challenge the government that increased trade with developing countries will benefit both developing countries and Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e554	The President will be allowed to assure Myhre's representative that he is not annoyed that people are discussing agricultural policy. To be personal, I can assure Myhre that the president thinks it's quite interesting. But as President of the Chamber, I am set to manage the Rules of Procedure we have adopted, and it says in Section 53: ‘The speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion.’ Then I see it as the President’s role to point out that questions to the government should mainly be addressed within the constitutional area of the Council of State that meets here. So there was nothing but that! I would also like to say that if the representative Myhres wishes, we will discuss agricultural policy at any time around a coffee cup, but then in the restaurant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e557	Let me say it so that it very much craves me, too, after going over agricultural policy and discussing it in this context. At least I will try to stick to the subject and the matter I have been rapporteur on, that is, the issue of the GSP system, the question of how we have developed it further, how we are achieving a balanced development with a view to facilitating trade with developing countries and for developing countries to have an opportunity to sell their goods into the Norwegian market, which is also very important for imports. We're importing more than 50 pst. of the food we eat in this country, and I think that – and that is what the government means – is a good thing. We can't produce tropical fruits, there's a lot of products we're not going to produce in this country, but we're also going to take care of Norwegian agriculture, to put it that way. The Government, the Center Party -- we're all followers of the rule-driven trade regime. We have the WTO, we have discussed the EEA Agreement, and we have the GSP system, which is now changing, and which I think is very well taken care of by the adjustment and adaptations that make it – fortunately – part of the poorest countries that are doing well to have a positive development, among other things. by trade in food, and increasing its level of income and leaving the group of poorest countries. This change in the GSP system that the government has proposed and which I hope will be adopted. I also think it is very interesting to discuss free trade as a principle. But I am also concerned about stressing – because I am engaged in trade – that one must also take into account that full free trade, full market liberalism, which we do not have, but which I feel both the Right and the Advance Party representatives are calling for, can threaten food production in developing countries. We know that releasing the major actors in the international food market on small farmers producing on local markets also helps to destroy local markets and the possibilities of small farmers in developing countries to produce food. So there are many aspects of this case that should have been taken up if you're going to do the job properly. As far as this balanced approach is concerned, I am concerned that we should meet the needs of developing countries in order to be able to sell their products to Norway. Botswana and Swaziland were mentioned here, and Norwegian imports from those countries are at the same level as the entire Union system imports from the same countries. It is clear that we are looking after those countries better than the European Union, for example. do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e568	Let me just say once that the Right is in favour of this proposal for a representative on the GSP system, and shares the intention that developing countries should be given the opportunity to take a greater part in world trade, including food. That being said, it is very natural that we see this in the context of Norwegian agricultural policy. There I would also like to point out that the Right believes that the government is in practice pursuing an agricultural policy where it is more concerned with protecting its own food production than with stimulating increased trade with other countries. We have noted the strong reactions of our partners in the EU after the government proposed to increase the high level of customs duties on some imported food. I would like to point out that Norway, at the Centre for the Development of Global Development for 2012, once again ports among the worst countries in terms of trade in high customs barriers and subsidies to own agriculture. The right is disappointed that despite the government's rhetoric that developing countries face trade policy, the proceeds of proposals for changes to the GSP system from the government in 2013 represent only about 9 million. kr. That's approximately equal to that. 0.39 pst. of the proposed increase in the 2013 aid budget. This is not solidarity with the developing countries, as we see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e578	I just need to remind myself – and perhaps again – that there are a wide range of agricultural products that are typical products produced in poor countries, for example. in tropical or Mediterranean climates, for which there is no customs duty on access to Norway at all, but there, for example. The EU has significant customs duties. This is why, for example: sugar is a significantly cheaper product in Norway than in many other European countries, and there are a number of other examples of it. When e.g. Flower exports from Africa to Norway are rising sharply, there are no barriers to it, precisely because we want to take our commitments to the GSP system seriously. It is – if I may say so – a little revealing when the representative Rafiq is also now withdrawing the customs duty on cheese from the EU. The economic crisis in Europe is true, but it is therefore long before Sweden and Denmark come under the GSP scheme. That's a completely different question than the one we're discussing right now. Once again, as we have been given a clear picture in this debate, it shows that there is actually a view of Norwegian agricultural policy we are discussing more than the GSP scheme. I'm glad we have many occasions, because it's an important and interesting discussion. But this government is committed to including the poor countries in world trade both through the reduction of customs duties and through a number of other measures to enable their active participation. In addition to the measures I mentioned earlier, we also have a work through the WTO to give them the opportunity to promote claims in WTO mechanisms, so that they can take those institutions seriously. There is a difference between free trade and total non-regulated trade. The WTO is, of course, an organisation to create the right framework conditions for trade in the world, and we are actively involved in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e587	I am pleased that the President invites to discuss agricultural policy around a coffee cup in Stortinget’s cafeteria, but this matter is, in fact, very much about agricultural policy. As I mentioned in my previous speech, out of the ten proposals made by the Progress Party in the proposal for a representative, six are concerned with agricultural policy. The majority of the Committee's comments, including the government parties, also deal with agricultural policy. When the government then chooses to send the Minister of Foreign Affairs alone to deal with this debate in Stortinget, we must also expect the Minister of Foreign Affairs to present the government's views on some agricultural policy issues. But we know that this is also a controversial area between the government parties, because the government party that has the Minister of Agriculture and the party that has the Minister of Foreign Affairs are relatively divided on many of these issues. It makes this a little bit foggy. That's why it's important that we now get the government on the road, so that you can get a presentation of what the government's overall policy is to include u-country more in terms of trade between us and them. That answer is covered in thick fog. The government has failed to present a credible explanation of the reasons why the government is so restrictive with regard to imports of food from a number of developing countries. I don't think we'll get that answer during this debate, but then we'll get back to it during the budget debate next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e594	The GSP scheme that Norway has, I think we can be very satisfied with. I don't think there are many countries that have such a good system to contribute to increased exports from poor countries. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, imports from these countries have increased in real terms by 70 pst, and the proportion of Norwegian imports of goods has also increased in comparison. So it works. Then, in this debate, we must not completely forget that we are only five million people. There is a certain limited market no matter how much we had to open up to imports from these countries. I don't think we alone can do what is necessary in order for these countries to really take off when it comes to the export of agricultural products. There is one element in our overall trade policy that has not been mentioned, which is also part of the picture, and it is our free trade agreements. We have a network of free trade agreements, including: with the SACU countries in southern Africa. There are probably 30-31 countries, I think, with which we now have a free trade agreement through EFTA. Then, as I pointed out in my first post, the changes in customs protection vis-à-vis the EU on a few products have been withdrawn. So this is the opposition that was wrong, and I guess this is going to reverse. However, facilitating imports of agricultural products from the EU is also no contribution to increasing imports from poor countries. There are limits to how much food we can eat, so to speak, so that the more the EU takes off that table, the less it becomes to the poor countries. Finally, as a sort of accusation against government policy, the representative Afshan Rafiq said that the government is ‘in charge of an agricultural policy where one is more concerned with protecting one’s own food production than with stimulating more trade’. Yeah, that's right. If a new government with the Right and Advance Party is to be more concerned with increased trade in agriculture than with providing Norwegian agriculture, I think the farmer is really released from the nest – both morning, dinner and evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e607	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e621	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e630	I have had the pleasure of addressing the case rapporteur in this case where the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have made proposals for the introduction of sound and video recordings at all Norwegian courts. The proposal is well-founded according to legal certainty and, not least, a more effective implementation of Norwegian legal cases, where we are still seeing, at the changing times we are in, major cases before the courts, more complex and more international cases, which contribute to the time-lag of the cases, and to the fact that the range of cases before the courts also means that appeal proceedings take longer. The Committee on Legal Affairs has examined the matter and, as one of the rapporteurs, I would like to welcome the fact that the Committee has supported the rapporteurs very much, but it has not been possible for the majority to support the proposal which the minority, the Progressive Party and the Right, have promoted, and which reads: ‘The Government is asked to start work on the introduction of sound and video recording in the courts and to present its own case on its implementation and financing.’ It's disappointing, because I think – and we'll hear that in the next posts – that this is a matter that the Storting should be able to agree on. I'm sorry. We are going to have a budget debate in the Judicial Committee next week, and we clearly see that the courts are not an area of initiative from the current government by not providing the necessary funds. We see that it will require quite a great commitment to introduce sound and image, and with the speed the government has with regard to appropriations to the courts, this will take a very long time. Fortunately, the minority have a different view of it, and if there is a government shift to the harvest, this will be a priority field. Taking up sound and images of what is said in Norwegian courts shall be made on grounds of legal certainty. We see that things get bigger, and there is increasing use of interpreters. This means that it can be an advantage that, for example: Certificates are played by second instance. There will then be less opportunities for defendants to change their explanation. Many witnesses feel that it is a great burden first to meet the police, then in the court of appeal and then in the court of law. Many people who have been subjected to assault seem to have to explain themselves in court repeatedly. We have recently carried out one of the largest and most extensive legal proceedings in Norway, and if there had been a second instance of this case, it would have been very demanding for many of those who had to explain themselves in that case. The technological development we are in is moving very quickly. This can be done very easily, both with recording and not least with storage. In the past, the proposers have also agreed that we should get a central evidence register where all the documents, evidence, etc. of the case are included, so that this can be verified in the future. It will also apply when we have the main debate on sound and image. This will include, inter alia: facilitate the work of the Resumption Commission and any judicial proceedings which a resumption would entail. With that, I will address the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e655	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e658	There is a political consensus on the importance of ensuring that explanations provided during the main proceedings in criminal matters should be provided in the future. It is in order to improve legal certainty in the general population and to ensure more effective enforcement of criminal cases. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr has well explained why this is important. We know that the recording of audio and video makes it possible to confront them if the explanations in the appeal board differ from what has been explained earlier. It could also be important for admissions to the issue of resumption of criminal proceedings. As the jury has stated, it could be burdensome for offended or witnesses to explain themselves again by appeals to the law. The use of sound and image would ease the burden on already exposed people. This selection has been made so that, in exceptional cases, where there would be a disproportionate burden on offended persons to re-explain, a possibility shall be provided for the playback of audio and video recordings by the first instance during the appeal procedure provided that this play does not go at the expense of information. The Ministry of Justice has sent the investigation to the hearing, and we need to assess what we are following from the broad consultation that has taken place. But I want to signal here and now that this is something that we must strongly consider following up, then in the context of budgetary processes, because it is quite natural that it must also follow funds. Today, we cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party, precisely because of these budgetary implications. It's not because the government parties are against it, but because we have to include it in the ordinary government budget processes. The economic aspect is something the Council of State will come back to in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e671	I want to commend the proposers for promoting a good and relevant proposal. It's a clear signal sent here from the Stortinget. A Joint Judicial Committee supports the intention of the proposers. Legal certainty must be ensured, both for victims and for defendants. The right in this case places emphasis on the fact that the recording of sound and image ensures the notoriety of the legal proceedings. From the Right we record that the government parties do not want to commit to the progress or financing of audio and video recordings. They do not even support the submission of a case on implementation and funding. This appears to be passive to the Right. I would like to stress that recording sound and image is only one of many measures to strengthen legal certainty in the courts. It is important for the Right that the Storting is also conscious of its responsibility to strengthen legal certainty in other areas. This concerns, for example, the possibility of using second opinion analysis in DNA tests and expert expertise in courts. The right has for a long time been impatient about the future of the jury. The jury's investigation had a deadline of 1 March this year. We're waiting for what the government is proposing on the jury order. Now it is time for the Storting to take a stand on this. The jury also considered the issue of access to sound and image playback during appeal proceedings. In the opinion of the Right, this should be less controversial than the future of the jury. Therefore, the government should come quickly to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of this. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee's unanimous remarks on the distinction between criminal and civil cases in the area of sound and image recording. In the opinion of the Right, admission must initially concern criminal matters, and then we get back to how this is to be carried out in civil matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e686	Legal certainty is one of the fundamental principles of democratic states and civilised societies. In a society where legal certainty is strong, one must also be able to test explanations in court if one thinks it has been wrong. Audio and video recording of the main negotiations is an important tool in this context. There are also other aspects to audio and video recordings that will enhance legal certainty. If you record the explanations, and this can be used in the later court, there will be a security mechanism for those who might consider testifying falsely. A potentially conflicting diploma in the next round could be more easily revealed in court, and the question of resumption of criminal proceedings would be helpful. At the same time, there is reason to point out that the memory is fresher. The use of the right of appeal in an appeal in a court of law may not be used to search for minor deviations from the explanation in the first instance to the explanation in an appeal if this has nothing to say to the image of the case and to the debt question. One might say this: It does not strengthen legal certainty if the purpose is to dig for details that are only used to try to weaken the trust of the person who explains. We already see that as crazy enough for example, where the possible victims are questioned and corrected for what appears to be completely irrelevant, so that they appear to be of little trust. I would like to stress the importance of taking care of victims in criminal proceedings. Unfortunately, there are many who experience terrible events, such as violence and violence, or who have witnessed such. Sitting for hours for open and retelling history will be a new, great impression, and it's hard to get on with life if one in an appeal has to tell everything in detail again. I therefore believe that it must be possible to use admission from the right of way to replace a new explanation in the appeal. Instead, defenders and actors can ask follow-up questions if there are new moments in the matter. This can be done without prejudice to legal certainty. In NOU 2011:13, the jury selection considered whether there should be access to play recording from the rights of way to replace new testimonies in the law of the law. The selection went in so that, in a special case, there would be one way too heavy a burden on the insult of re-explaining, there would be access to play audio and video recordings from the first instance during the appeal process. Of course, it's a definition question of what will be – and when it will be – a kind of heavy burden, but at least I think that one should be aware that there are many loads that can save victims for, just by allowing this type of recording. The threshold should not be too high, all of this under the pretext that there is no charge for the cost of the care of the case information on which Ljunggren was involved. The distribution was subject to a deadline of 1 March 2012 and is being dealt with in the ministry. I'm glad the department is now working on this matter, and I look forward to doing something in this area. This matter is important, and I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus on the objective of providing equipment for audio and video recording in the courts. There is considerable investment to be made, and it requires large annual commitments to operate and maintain equipment each year. Therefore, this matter is now essentially a budgetary matter. I would like to commend the opposition to the initiative and to raise the issue, but I regret that it is going to end up in the wrong debate. We're going to work on red-green targeting so that money for these investments will come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e703	Legal certainty is a fundamental principle in a rule of law, and we legislators must facilitate this at all stages. The proposal that is being presented today ensures this. Paradoxically, there is a broad political consensus that audio and video recordings promote legal certainty, even if it is therefore going to be voted down by the government parties. The Court of Justice is faced with demanding tasks and the amount of the proceedings is increasing. We have heard that the waiting time in the law is now up for a year and a half, and that it is likely to increase even more. It's not lucky. Audio and video recordings can be more effective for the judiciary, while increasing legal certainty. The Ministry of Justice has itself stated that audio and video recordings during the main proceedings in criminal matters should be ensured, precisely because it ensures the legal certainty of citizens. Nevertheless, the position concludes that this cannot be introduced because costs are too high. The costs are high, but we in the Christian People's Party view this as a matter of priority. So the price won't be too high. Fair trial, such as: emerging from Article 6 of the ECHR, shall ensure a fair process at all stages. Audio and video recordings during the main negotiation will be one of several actions that will promote this. In some cases, a new witness to either witnesses or insults may be very invasive and tear up into bad wounds. In addition, where necessary, long waiting for the appeals may be a good measure to protect those who have been subjected to abuses or other serious incidents. The process of the vulnerable may be shorter and better. Of course, when deciding whether or not to introduce the proposal, it is important that it is provided that the play is not at the expense of information in appeal proceedings. If this is necessary for the case, the fixation shall not prevent new explanations from being given. But it's not a either-or, but we can pick a both- and. Legal certainty must come first. That is why the Christian People's Party will support the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e716	There is no disagreement that there are several good reasons for introducing audio and video recordings into court. The Ministry has in Prop. L 141 for 2009-2010, Changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, etc., expressed the following on sound recording in criminal matters: ‘In the view of the Ministry, there are grounds for legal certainty that explanations given during the main proceedings in criminal matters should be ensured in due course. The recording of sound, accompanied, where appropriate, by images, allows confrontation if the explanation in the appeal body deviates from that previously explained. Recording could also be important in reopening criminal proceedings. Recordings could facilitate the writing of the judgment, and could be of assistance to the appeal court in the case of siling decisions. Furthermore, misunderstandings due to linguistic or cultural differences may be identified.’ I would also like to mention – as others have already done – that the jury committee in NOU 2011:13 assessed whether there should be access to play on admission from the district court to replace new witnesses in the law. The committee agreed that, in exceptional cases, where there would be a disproportionate burden on offended persons to re-examine, access should be given to the playback of audio and video recordings by the first instance during appeal proceedings, provided that the playback is not at the expense of the information provided by the case. The jury's inquiry was sent to a wide-ranging hearing in August 2011 with a deadline of 1 March this year. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has received a number of recordings showing significant involvement in the case. The Ministry now assesses how the matter should be followed up. In the case of civil matters, the general rule of the Arbitration Act is that, during the main proceedings, admission of statements of parties and witnesses is to be made, but this may be omitted, inter alia. where the court does not have the necessary recording equipment available. The administration of the Court of Justice forwarded the report «Sound and image recording from statements of parties and witnesses in court» to the department last year. The Court of Justice recommends as a starting point that seven out of ten courts are equipped for the recording of sound and image, while the other rooms are equipped for the recording of sound and, furthermore, that all courts must be equipped with mobile sound recording equipment in cases that are placed outside the Court’s premises, which is particularly necessary in the case-law of the land change courts. The introduction of audio and video recordings into the courts will require significant increases in ICT resources needs. The Court of Justice has estimated that the investments will amount to approximately 285 million. kr, while annual additional operating and maintenance costs will be approximately 70 million. kr. In addition, replacement costs of approximately 60 million will be incurred. kr per year. According to the Court of Justice, it will take up two years from funding to solutions can be realised. Investment in audio and video recording equipment in law must be assessed in the context of the ordinary state budgets. I can therefore not now say anything more about when, if necessary, such audio and video recordings will be introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e736	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e740	The Council of State concluded this matter, as she has done in many other cases, that she cannot say anything about when the government might give priority to sending a case to the Stortinget, or whether this is something the government will give priority to. In this debate so far, representatives of the government parties have expressed a positive opinion and say that on the facts in this matter, we are not in disagreement, and this is something we should give priority to – but you are no longer coming. You don't dare do the political priority. Now we are going to take the budget debate next week – not here – but it is clear that, as has been stated, this requires a specific political will to make a financial uplift to the courts. Then my question is, does the government have the will to give priority to a matter like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e749	That's why I went so thoroughly into the overall approach to this question. There is no disagreement that there are many good reasons for introducing such equipment. It may also be known that the financial plan of the courts provides for the introduction of such equipment, but that at that time there are no concrete proposals in the budget of the Court of Justice and therefore not of the government for 2013. Even where there are good reasons for action, it requires a concrete, sensible plan to ensure that resources are used in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e757	I hear what's being said, and it's very positive. There is mutual political agreement here. There is no disagreement as to whether this is to be implemented — for reasons of legal certainty, for the sake of effective progress in the courts — but it is nevertheless not possible to reach a decision. Unfortunately, there are many things that this government is pushing ahead with. Everyone in this Chamber who agrees with the proposers also knows that if this is to be taken into account in the ordinary budgets of the courts, it will take 10, 15 and 20 years before we have it in place. I think, with all due respect, that the Council of State could have been honest about that. In fact, the Council of State says in reply with the representative of Kielland Asmyhr that a proposal for funding from the Court of Justice – a proposal to finance such a huge increase from the administration of the Court of Justice within the already tight budgetary framework of the courts – is being cut down because this government grants less and less, or it goes up and down. It is sad, and it is clear that the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party is almost innocent. There are no obligations in that. One is asked to have a case, and in such a case, one could in fact look at a relationship with the courts in terms of sound and image, efficiency, legal certainty, the jury system and, not least, what one does not dare to look at: the structure of the courts. But this government will not take this debate and in this field will push things far ahead without taking responsibility for the situation we are up against. I refer to a look-up in the Evening Post today – which may be completely random. But at least I ask the Minister of Justice to read what it says, which is quite correct, which is the real facts and to which the Minister of Justice should have listened.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e768	Let me first thank the court for a wonderful work done in our courts. It creates justice for a lot of people. Efficiency is almost at the top of the world, and we are also very well placed in the European context. So it's a great job, we all have to praise and thank you for that. So to this thing. There are very good arguments for introducing audio and video recordings. It's also the government parties and SV on it. But the goal is always to ensure and promote the legal certainty of those who come to the courts, and then I get a little worried when the Progress Party looks so simplified on the matter. On the one hand, it is correct and necessary to take both picture and sound to ensure that this can be verified afterwards. At the same time, there is also a concern we have to take with us, namely that when the matter comes to another court, we must not go into the trap that there is only sound and image to be run, that it should not be witnesses, victims for the sake of the case, or accused themselves who stand there in their own person defending themselves or presenting their testimonies. There's a difference between driving a picture from a former court, six months back, a year back, and leaving a living person standing there and presenting his own testimonial, with all the feelings, all the shades and all the human sides that come out if you stand there yourself – instead of just getting a picture. It's not such a simple thing that the Progress Party is trying to make it. We need to go to the depth of the matter. We are open to it, we agree with the intention, but we also have to agree that there is not a simple and straightforward case of the proposers here trying to promote. Then we need time. This is all about people's legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e779	Only to take the representative Chaudhry first: the party of progress has never proposed that the main principle of Norwegian law on immediate assessment of evidence be abolished. Of course, this should be a supplement. It is relatively frustrating to witness a debate on an important topic where so many actors agree, but where nothing can be done. I would then say, as I said in my reply, that this is simply on political will. I just have to say that there is no such thing as this – when the government parties and the Council of State agree. We see in today's Evening Post that the head of the Legal Association wants this, that's a lot of good arguments from him. The police want this, the courts want this, and the prosecutors want this. Many actors want it, but we still don't get to do anything. Then, like the representative Sandberg, I have to wonder that the Council of State refers to – and is waiting for – the input from the Court of Justice administration. It's the court administration waiting for the government. There are now quite a number of cases from the Court of Justice that are located in the Department, with which nothing is happening. It is this case, there is further reform of the structure of the district courts, the construction of new warehouses in some important places – worn-out warehouses – and not least we have the case of the jury system, where we should conclude very soon. But I can give the council a tip on where she can find money – I understand that's hard. In Norwegian courts today, around 100 million are used. kr on interpretation. There we can actually, with such a suggestion, save money by not all of these witnesses need to explain themselves twice. The fact that a person, for example, has observed a person in a place, keeps sound and image as well as by doing it again. Therefore, I believe that by reducing that post, we will be able to save money to use on the introduction of sound and images.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e792	If you are never so optimistic, I also understand that you are not able to reverse the government parties today. But I want to take a little time to reflect on what is being said, among other things. by the representative of Chaudhry. He has to read the proposal. There's nothing here about this being simple or that it's easy. That's why we have formulated the proposal – that we ask the government to start, at least present a case for the Storting, so that we get a process. As the Council of State refers to: If we get funding in place, it will still take several years for us to implement this. That's why I say we push the challenges in front of us – or the government does. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that already in 2005 negotiations on civil matters were legalised. It's legal. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr was involved. Thus, if it is expected that the courts will do so within the ordinary budgets, the situation is the same today, with which everyone is aware – the Committee has visited and received information from the courts – that the computer systems in the courts today are not an instrument, they have become a handicap, and it goes beyond legal certainty because, among other things, completed judgments are lost and have to be rewritten due to poor computer systems. Judicial interrogations of persons are lost and have to be re-established due to poor data equipment. There is already a great need to invest in the courts. To give priority to what is already facing legal certainty and efficiency challenges today, it will take five–six–seven–eight years before a modern equipment is put in place – and then you have to start with sound and imagery. This isn't durable at all. That is why the Progress Party today is pleased that we are in agreement with the intentions of the proposal, but sadly because we have to wait decades before putting in place a necessary system to strengthen and ensure legal certainty in Norwegian courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e801	The last two speakers confirm what I said in my small post, namely that we have to take legal certainty so seriously that we cannot go into the issues as delicate and as superficial as the Progress Party wants to do. The last two representatives on the one hand believe that we should go into it thoroughly. Then the representative Kielland Asmyhr came and presented over the table a solution to how to finance it. It's about witnesses, victims and perpetrators who have needed interpreters in the first court, not need it in the next court. Then you're just going to run the sound. Doesn't that go beyond people's legal certainty? It's a little interesting that a big-time representative from the Grandhold's pulpit is so basically going into legal proceedings and saying that you don't have to get into any other courtroom. If you need an interpretation, you only need to use audio and video, and you're done with the case. I think it's a very deplorable way of dealing with people's legal certainty. That's why we can't deal with things over the table. We need to get into them properly and find good solutions to a challenge that we agree with and will have many aspects of it, and where it will actually also ensure legal certainty. But it may also affect legal certainty if we have not done our job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e808	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has spoken twice earlier and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e811	To the representative Chaudhry's need for self-marking, I have the following to say: I quote from the vote, a unanimous committee, including the representative Chaudhry: ‘The Committee considers this to be a clear support for the intention of the proposers to improve legal certainty and to improve the effectiveness of criminal proceedings in particular.’ This is a quote in relation to the answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e823	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e837	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e851	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e867	In a modern society, we depend on trust in the telecommunications systems and their suppliers. Societal functions, business and privacy are almost continuously affected by these systems. At the same time, we know that these digital systems are under constant attack from hackers, criminals, and different spy activities. All users and owners of digital information systems have an independent responsibility for ensuring the security and integrity of their PCs, mobile phone or tablet. But the defence against these digital attacks is going to be difficult and perhaps impossible if we can't trust the core, the infrastructure itself, that binds these complex technology systems together. If security is compromised here, it does not help whether each PC or tablet has the best security programs in the world, or whether the user complies with all security rules. Therefore, safety in critical, digital infrastructure is very important. This has become clearer and clearer in recent years. Therefore, the Right believes that the verification of security here is a responsibility of the authorities. This interpellation concerns whether or not the government adequately discharges this responsibility. Right, the government doesn't think so. A few months ago, a unanimous intelligence committee in the House of Representatives in the United States recommended excluding Chinese telecom companies from supplying components to their infrastructure. Australia has recently excluded the Chinese company Huawei from competing for certain contracts concerning the development of their national broadband networks. The United Kingdom has implemented costly safety procedures for those parts of its infrastructure based on equipment from Huawei. Germany’s national research and education networks have excluded Huawei from participating in the competition to upgrade their networks. Why do more and more countries go to the step of excluding Chinese telecom companies from their critical infrastructure? Chinese legislation provides Chinese authorities with very powerful and intrusive powers to override and understand the country's telecommunications companies. This is particularly linked to two aspects. Firstly, all companies in China must have a committee appointed by the Communist Party, whose task is to ensure the necessary conditions for activities under the regime of the Communist Party. Secondly, Chinese authorities may require unlimited inspection and disclosure of information and equipment from companies, organisations and individuals. China is the world's largest dictatorship and a Communist one-party state. The Chinese authorities are completely free to use the instruments they themselves determine, based on these legal paragraphs, a threat picture and a needs analysis that the Communist Party itself defines. What is defined by the party is not under the scrutiny of a critical press, a popular assembly or an independent judiciary. Therefore, the two instruments mentioned are important and worrying. This distinguishes Chinese telecoms industry from competing companies originating in democratic countries. However, it is not the Chinese companies that are the main source of this interpellation, nor is it the ability and means of Chinese authorities to override companies, and to gather socio-critical information about other countries’ information systems – although this is why more and more countries are asking fundamental questions about whether Chinese companies should provide components for critical infrastructure or other societally critical systems. The main reason for this interference is the absence of a government safety focus on the performance of information security. Central parts of the Norwegian mobile network are supplied by the Chinese telecoms company Huawei. Both Telenor and NetCom use this provider in the core of their mobile networks. The mobile network is part of our critical infrastructure. The same critical questions asked in many other countries were not asked by the Norwegian government when establishing new technology in our mobile network. The same critical questions are still not addressed by the government. This is reflected in a pattern in which government lacks focus and a holistic approach to information security. For example, the National Information Security Strategy dates back to 2003. National guidelines on information security expired in 2010. Responsibility for information security in Norway is distributed throughout the 11 departments. The right also considers it serious that the government has not carried out a review of the adequacy of the Safety Act to current safety challenges and technological developments. Let me elaborate: On questions from the Right, it appears that the Ministry of Defence, which administers the Security Act, has not carried out a safety assessment at all when setting up the new technology in the mobile network. The answer from the Council of State is: ‘Concrete acquisitions into the mobile network and safety and risk assessments from national safety authorities in this context are therefore outside my remit.’ The Minister of Defence refers to the Ministry of Justice and Defence but assures: ‘Safety and risks associated with the use of information and communication technologies by society are very serious by the Norwegian authorities.’ The same question was therefore put to the Right to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. We observed that the question was forwarded from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Transport. The wonder and concern increased sharply as we read the answer from there. Nor has the Ministry of Transport assessed at any point whether the use of Chinese technology in the mobile network was problematic in terms of the law on electronic communications, the so-called eco-nomy law. On the contrary, it refers to the operators’ responsibilities on this issue. But also this Council of States assures: ‘Network and service security is something that Norwegian authorities take very seriously.’ These insurances from the government no longer believe in the Right. Faggots do not provide security and robustness in our critical infrastructure. There is only action and active follow-up that does it. The government has neither acted nor followed up. Let me elaborate and clarify further: the Committee on Budgetary Control and Constitution recently sent a letter with several critical questions on the same subject to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The reply was available on 13 November. This shows that the National Safety Authority, the NSM, already assessed in 2010 whether the Safety Act and the Ecom Act had mechanisms to reduce risks, as described. The NSM concluded that there was a risk but that none of the legislation was applicable. Then the Minister of Justice wrote in that letter of November, almost three years later: ‘This is a problem I want to look at’. Nothing was done by the government to reduce the risk. Nothing has been done by the government to risk the risk. I can already hear the response of the government in this debate and in other speeches in this debate: we have increased the appropriations. Yes, in some areas and with the full support of the Right. And there are many employees in the system who make an excellent and dedicated effort, but appropriations alone do not improve information security when they are not followed up by government actions – as the examples of Huawei and the government's lack of follow-up to NSM's assessment of the safety law and the ecom law unfortunately show. The National Information Security Strategy continues to be fully reworded in 2003, national information security guidelines expired in 2010, and responsibility is allocated to 11 ministries. It is against this background that the following questions are asked: How does the Council of State assess this absence of safety regulatory control of critical infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e932	There is currently a review of the Safety Act. One of the themes of this review is how we can ensure critical infrastructure, including: in the light of the challenges posed by new technologies. The Safety Act came into force on 1 July 2001 and, as everyone can see, it has been a significant development both in technology and in markets since the law came into force. This suggests a law audit. The question whether a particular supplier can represent a risk to a particular sector or industry needs to be considered. I also believe that the general problem we need to address is the mechanisms we need to ensure critical infrastructure and the components that are supplied, regardless of the supplier. The claim made by the representative that the Norwegian authorities have not assessed Huawei’s deliveries under security law or eco-law does not lead to correctness. The National Safety Authority and the Police Security Service had a dialogue with Telenor in December 2009. Concerns were expressed in this context regarding different aspects of mobile security. Furthermore, it was communicated that Telenor has a separate obligation to make necessary assessments relating to the conclusion of contracts with foreign suppliers of goods and services to its critical infrastructure. General information was also provided on prevention safety. However, in 2009, NSM assessed the existing legislation so that Telenor’s acquisition of infrastructure was not safety rated. In 2010, NSM assessed whether the safety and electronic communications law had mechanisms in general to reduce the risk. Assessments were also obtained from the Post and Telecommunications Authority in this process. The NSM then concluded that there was a risk, but, as the interpellant also referred to, the existing legislation was not directly applicable in the specific situation. In 2010, the PST also had a meeting with Netcom, where the intelligence threat related to foreign deliveries to Norwegian critical infrastructure was presented. This issue is still at the heart of the review currently under way by the Security Act. I have also again asked the NSM and the Post and Telecommunications Authority to make an assessment of the scope of the current legislation to reduce risks in the context of the current eco-nomy and safety laws. Any measures could have technical and economic implications that need to be assessed in a consistent manner before implementation. I would also like to point out that there is now a national process in progress in which each department will designate shielding objects within its area of competence. It shall take place by 1 January 2013. The process shall also monitor the dependency of these objects on other objects. The mapping shall identify support services and components depending on the function of the feature. Protective objects are ‘property that must be protected against security-threatening activities for the security of the state or allies or other vital national security interests’. Such objects may be building masses and physical objects as well as components of technical infrastructure. Once the objects have been designated, the object owners shall ensure them with measures corresponding to the safety value of the objects. Object owners shall also establish measures to address the intelligence threat. Such an action is to establish the necessary barriers. Such barriers may be of a physical, electronic or administrative nature. If a supplier no longer has the necessary trust and can therefore provide a vulnerability to the object, object owners must take action to reduce the risk. A well-functioning object safety regime will make a significant contribution to the safety of our infrastructure. Risks and safety associated with the use of information and communication technologies by society are taking Norwegian authorities very seriously. This has also been communicated in the past by my colleagues, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Transport. All sectors of society depend on this common infrastructure, and this creates a social vulnerability that we must follow closely. In addition, the infrastructure is subject to tiring technical progress. New patterns of use are rapidly being created. It doesn't make the challenge any less. We need to use the opportunities provided by today's legislation, and we also need to consider the need to change the regulatory framework in order to adapt to the risk profile of the future. Several of the issues raised recently in the protection of critical infrastructure are not exclusively concerned with the telecommunications infrastructure. The issues are cross-sectoral. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has participated in the work of the Ministry of Defence now leading the review of the Security Act. The purpose of this law is as is known to counteract espionage, sabotage and terrorist acts. It would be natural for cross-sectoral national needs to find their solution there – robust solutions that also work for prevention. This is a work I will follow closely in the future. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important for everyone to recognise their responsibility for good safety, including business itself. Good security begins with the individual. Defective security in critical infrastructure not only affects society, it particularly affects businesses themselves, both in function and in reputation. Close cooperation between authorities and business in this area is important. I also point out here that the Minister for Transport has previously stated that she has reason to believe that Telenor is doing its safety assessments and also providing satisfactory security on her network. As I said at the outset, I am not just concerned about whether a particular supplier can represent a risk to a particular sector or industry. I think the general issue we need to address is what general mechanisms we need to have to ensure that all suppliers of critical infrastructure and the components they supply are actually to be trusted. This is a problem I am working with the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Defence on and about which I will follow closely in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e958	The least that this interpellation is about are individual suppliers. What this matter is about is the underlying structures behind these suppliers and the risk they pose to Norwegian critical infrastructure. But first and foremost, this interpellation is about political responsibility and the political follow-up to what we believe in the Right is the lack of political initiative. Critical points of view have emerged from several underlying institutions. There have been warnings. It makes clear to the Council of State. But then the follow-up question is, why hasn't the government done anything about it? I build that question and that claim on the written answers that the Right Group has received from both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Transport. We have also sent questions to the Minister of Justice, but they have been forwarded from there, so we first get the answer here in the Chamber today. Our commitment to this debate is also about the migration this case has had to take place between several departments: the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport – FAD is also an active department, which at least has a responsibility in this field – plus more. This in itself underlines that the risk factor is not managed well enough – when we see it as the absence of government initiatives. I would like to thank you for the answer from the Council of State and, finally, to raise a new question. That letter from the Council of State to the Control and Constitutional Committee shows that it has been demonstrated that in 2010 NSM described a risk situation related to the topic we are discussing today. This State Council was then the State Council of the Ministry of Defence. Now the Minister of Justice is sitting here, and my question is: why has it taken almost three years without any action – as far as I can understand – with the message of concern from neither political leadership, the political level, nor the government as such in the specific case described in that letter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e969	I would like to distance myself from the claim that nothing has been done, and refer again to how the sector managers and the Ministry of Transport – in cooperation with Telenor – have addressed these questions. In its driving role, the Ministry of Justice has also wanted – and I explained this – that we are taking an initiative once again and are identifying whether there are possibilities in today’s legislation that have not been tested, to ensure that we do what we can to minimise risks and, if necessary, to trigger concrete measures, whether it should be necessary to do so. It is correct – as the interpellant pointed out – that the legal responsibility of the Security Act lies with the Ministry of Defence and that FAD has its own coordination responsibility in the area of preventive ICT security. In my opinion, the interpellant has raised a very important issue and illustrates how demanding it is to ensure good follow-up of critical infrastructure in a social model like ours. This is one of the reasons why the government has been working to revise the national guidelines in this area. A new national strategy is planned before the end of the year, and we will also discuss whether adjustments need to be made to the borderline between the different departments. These are key issues to ensure that we also address this type of security issue relating to our telecom infrastructure in a good way. Of course, it would also be right to address other non-related safety challenges in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e976	It's an important and interesting debate the interpellant has pulled up. The example itself has stood in the media a two-three-year period, but I think it's important to discuss it more as a matter of principle, and less as a matter of a particular company. The important thing is, in principle, whether we have a good enough safety regulatory control of critical infrastructure when it is to be expanded. It is clear that it is essential in view of the risk of cyber-attacks, sabotage, network-based crime, surveillance, etc. It is good that the state councils warn that they are now reviewing the Security Act and that there will be new guidelines before Christmas. It is a very important question of principle whether we should be so dependent on – in this case – Telenor’s own obligation to do risk assessments that are good enough for critical infrastructure, or whether we need to establish an even better quality assurance of that work, and that the authorities must then have a stronger role, represented by, among other things. NSM and PST. It is alarming when – as referred to here – NSM established in 2010 that the existing legislation was not sufficiently applicable in this case. It is also good that there is a national process under way – which will run until 1 January 2013 – to designate shielding features, where technical infrastructure is also included. If it is the case that suppliers of technical infrastructure create vulnerability, new measures shall be put in place. It will also apply to Telenor. It will be important to keep track of what that process brings about. Creating good enough control mechanisms must be independent of companies and where companies are established in the world. I think it's a cross-section of thought that if someone wanted to establish espionage, sabotage or surveillance in the case of Norwegian infrastructure, it is not certain that they would be exposed to the attention, control and focus it leads to, for example, using. Chinese technology and companies. It is essential that we do as well to follow independently of which companies and countries those who may have such intentions choose to rely on. Obviously, this can also happen from countries where less attention is paid. I think the main point in this debate must be how we can get good enough measures for regulatory control of our infrastructure, learn from the discussion about this example and learn how to build good enough skills and get good enough tools so that we can follow through and do a real control. In this way, I think this interpellation is useful in improving us and making sure that the measures are progressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e987	It's a little pleasure to hear the representative, Werp, take the government's arguments apart – it's good work. In Case No. 5 in the case map today, we see that Europe too has a focus on just critical infrastructure and how important this is. Next week we're going to have a bigger debate about cybersecurity. All in all, this is a matter and an area we have to lift to a much greater extent here in Norway. That's why this interpellation is very, very important. The representative, Werp, focuses on an area where – to put it mildly – there is not too much knowledge about it out there. We must, in fact, expect the decision-makers to have the necessary understanding and knowledge to take the right decisions. When Telenor now chooses Huawei – or ‘husjameg’ – as someone said – as a supplier of central components to the mobile network without any control over the delivery for security laws or risk analysis, as other countries have done, I might say that we are naive. I have registered that the council itself contests this, and that it has been done. It is difficult to understand that Norway — with a population of five million — will not be able to have a good enough overview of its critical infrastructure and its vulnerability. The lack of interest, knowledge and willingness to convert in this area are some of the factors for this. I think something as banal as the age of decision-makers plays a role. Our children and young people, who have grown up in a cyber community, can squander almost anyone over 50 years of age. Who doesn't know about the teenager in the basement who hacks into different things? This may have been a little siding back to Huawei. So it's a company that's been banned in a number of countries, including Germany, the United States, Canada, Australia, etc. And that can't be for no reason? Could Telenor, and the government, have seen the agreement as part of an approach to China, in relation to the peace price distribution that has led to permafrost between our two countries? Or could Telenor, and the government, have come to the conclusion that Huawei does not pose a safety risk to our critical infrastructure by checking this against our security law — that is, a completely different conclusion to that of other countries? This is a subject that is constantly changing. It's faster and faster – the law we have today is old tomorrow – so if we're going to be able to hang on to the swings, we're going to have to act. It is a very clear discharge, and not least a powdering of responsibility, when I hear that so many departments – as the representative Werp here refers to – have a finger in the game. That's why we all, and not least the government, have to see the whole thing too soon to be able to deliver in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1004	I will first begin by giving praise to the interpellant in order to prepare within this area on the agenda. This debate calls for the presence of the government with regard to overall security controls. It is this Council of States, which is in the Chamber today, which is the government's superior in terms of preparedness and which has the coordinating responsibility. What we are asking from the Right is precisely this security controls at the authority level – not at the operator level, not at the individual human level. The government has tools, but it might seem like you've abdicated from using them. I hear in the State Council statement that the PST and the NSM, the National Security Authority, have spoken to NetCom and Telenor respectively, but that is not the announcement we have. We call for the overall responsibility of the government to have an emergency assessment in this area. In this example, there is a close link between Huawei and the Chinese authorities, and in my practical everyday life, it can mean that Chinese authorities can look at my e-mail. They can do it. I don't know if they do, but they can do it – they can look at my e-mail both at home and at Stortinget. China can look us in the cards. There may be other countries elsewhere. And my challenge to the Council of State, and to the government, is what demands the government has made for security. I also expect the government to make a safety assessment, and do not leave Telenor in a ten-year contract to handle this. Other countries are just making such safety assessments on their own. In 2010, when the Council of State was Minister of Defence, the National Security Authority assessed whether the Security Act and the Electronic Communications Act had mechanisms to reduce risks, as we have mentioned here today. The national safety authority then said that there was a risk, but none of the legislation was applicable. Then this state council said she would look at this in a review of the Security Act. So the question now is, what has happened, and what actually happens? When will the government present legislation that actually meets the needs of Norway and is applicable? I also listened with interest to Mr. Bøhler's posts, which I think were in a principle and cost-effective way, addressing just the issues that we are asking for. The representative said that the authorities might ‘have a stronger role’. To that end, I miss the role of the authorities — not those underlying bodies, such as the PST or the National Safety Authority. I miss the role of the government on its own, with the security responsibility they have, and with the preparedness responsibility that has been coordinated with the Minister of Justice, which is the principle starting point for action. As for Åse Michaelsen, in his statement that knowledge about cyberspace and the Internet and technological development is probably related to age, I think it's absolutely right – both in terms of understanding, knowledge and being operational and applying new technologies. But I expect the government in this area to operate indefinitely, with the responsibility of the government to take into account the security of the nation in an area that is at the level of development, and not shift responsibility on either the operator or the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1024	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Werp, for a good interpellation and review, for a good review of the questions that have also been raised by the Left since we asked questions in the Control Committee, and the question of some of the wording of that answer. From the left's point of view, there are two questions here. There is both a question of national security – how sure are we that basic infrastructure is managed and safe for the Norwegian state? The second aspect concerns the security of citizens, the right to our privacy, the right to be the Norwegian authorities, based on Norwegian laws, adopted by Norwegian elected bodies and not by other regimes – at least not when we see those taking in are the largest dictatorship in the world. What surprises me a little, especially from the answers given by the Control Committee to Left’s questions, is why Norway believes that we have information that is much more noble and much better than countries that – I must admit that I believe – have a larger intelligence body than Norway. I believe that the United Kingdom – this is just an assumption – has a slightly larger intelligence organisation than Norway. I believe that these countries we are talking about here – the United States, Canada, England – have systems that allow them to check whether this affects a rich security, and that leads to their actions, while Norway is concerned about assessing all things according to our legislation, seas if one admits that the legislation is flawed. I think maybe we can learn from some of the major democracies who have made legislation in this area, and don't think that all the dictatorships are kind because our legislation is short. I'm also asking whether NSM has enough resources to do those types of checks that we're talking about here. Then you sit as a government council, you discover that security is being challenged, you test the safety against Norwegian legislation, you find that the legislation is wrong, and then you start to investigate. Had I been a State Council then, I might have tried to have a dialogue with the parties that it was about, and assured me that there are many who are working on this in Telenor. I wonder if maybe the Council of State can answer how many employees there are in Telenor working with this particular part? I don't think there are very many, I don't think there's a big unit at Telenor that's working on this kind of security. We may not be able to expect that from commercial players in a market when we are unable to produce legislation that forms the framework around it. So my call to the Council of State is to learn from the countries we like to compare with, which have the resources to figure out what challenges this poses for the privacy of each individual citizen and for the security of a rich person, and then, if necessary, to see if there are things you can do in the dialogue with the companies operating in the market before you get a regulation in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1037	The representative Anders B. Werp focuses this interpellation on a very important part of the infrastructure of a modern society. We today experience that communication is an increasingly important part of our everyday life. Communication between individuals and between enterprises and agencies — in short, society as a whole. We've become more and more dependent. We also experience that this new communication goes over the mobile network. What used to go on a copper wire, is essentially now going over fiber or the mobile network, and even more so when the 4G network that Telenor and NetCom are doing is being expanded. It is therefore more important than ever that that network is as secure as possible. This applies to interception, but also to manipulation. We simply need to have confidence in this network. That expansion is being carried out by Huawei, which has been mentioned earlier today, which is a Chinese company. There is no doubt that it is a competent company. It's one of the world's largest telecommunications companies, and it's competitive. Anders B. Werp and I were visiting the company at Fornebu a while ago, and we got a very good impression of the company, both in terms of their competence and their ability to see the expansion here in Norway in the light of our country. However, recent attention has been focused on the fact that Chinese authorities have extensive powers to override and almost unlimited access to information from telecom companies. That's what worries us. We know that the Chinese authorities have a millimetre control of information flows in their own country. We also know, as mentioned earlier today, that both the United States, Australia, Canada and Germany have refused to allow this company to operate and expand critical communications networks in their countries. What worries us most here is that we do not think Norwegian authorities – and I hear what the Council of State says – have given enough attention to the critical infrastructure. We know that PST pointed out that information security is a low priority in many Norwegian state and private institutions. We think that's regrettable, because this is becoming even more focused in a modern society. We know that the Minister for Transport said that she trusts the providers to carry out the necessary risk and vulnerability analyses when selecting a supplier. Yeah, maybe we're talking about another kind of vulnerability risk in this case, because we're not talking about a common risk associated with a product. We're talking about the risk that another state's political authorities can intervene, and that's what we feel uncomfortable about. We know that the United Kingdom has introduced expensive analytical software to prevent this from happening. With the experience of programming services that I had over a few years, I know that there should only be a few lines in a statement in a software to either ‘blank’ out the network completely, or that you can retrieve information related to individuals or to agencies. The issue is a cross-sectoral issue, as the Council of State says. Yes, to the most extent – this is part of cybersecurity. The council also says that she will follow closely in the future. We appreciate that very much, because it becomes important. But what has been done to minimise the risk in this case? We haven't really got an answer to that. The border crossing between the different departments has been addressed by the Councils of State. Yes, it's also important, but we feel that it has to be a state agency, a department that has the responsibility to make sure that this comes into place. The representative Jan Bøhler says this is not linked to a specific company, but to something in general. Yeah, that's in general as well, but in this case it's quite special. We appreciate that the Council of State says that she will focus on it in the future, but at the same time we will stress that we are not satisfied with the focus that the various Councils have had until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1054	I thank you for the debate and for the comments. I think there have been good contributions that underline both the importance of the matter and the seriousness of the matter. We're talking about a topic that's volatile, through the technological development that opens up new opportunities, new applications and new weaknesses, so to speak, every single day. We're talking about a topic that's important, because it interferes with people's everyday lives, it interferes with businesses, and it intervenes in the degree of opportunity we have to keep things secret, whether it's at company level, personal or social level. Then we must have an offensive government. We must have an offensive policy in this area. That's what the right one wants, and that's what the right one means we don't have. I think both the Council of State and the representative Bøhler from the government coalition and from the Workers' Party made good comments – no doubt about it. But there is still a defensive undertone – I would argue – in the red-green parts of this theme. You're obviously on the defensive, but you want to get on the offensive. That's good. Next week, we will be discussing a proposal from the Right to address cybersecurity and the need for better coordinated action in the area of information security. That proposal, on our side, was an attempt and a recording and an invitation to the Storting to gather on the significance of the very topic we are discussing here. We wanted to extend a hand and give all parties an opportunity to say that now we need an overall strategy, we need a coordination of responsibility in this field, and we want to anchor it here in Stortinget – in order for everyone to have a ownership of it, and for everyone to have an opportunity to follow up the matter actively in the course of the process – because this is a topic that does not end. Then I see that the government parties unfortunately do not accept that invitation. There are many pleasant and beautiful words about the intentions, but you have to do things your way in the apparatus, in the bureaucracy and in the government. There are no signs here, as far as I can see, that this is a matter that comes to Stortinget. It's a weakness, it's defensive, it's not forward-looking, and we need a deep, thorough and good anchoring on this topic, because this affects us all, and it affects the country's security.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1068	I would again like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for raising this question. It's a very important debate, and I have to admit that it was a theme I worked a lot on when I myself worked in the technology industry. I have been given a clear mandate as Minister of Justice and Security to work to improve preparedness, and the Ministry of Justice and Defence has been given a clearer and stronger responsibility to coordinate and be a driver in this work. Since questions have been asked about whether the government is therefore launching new investigations, I would like to say that one of the answers we have already given to strengthen this work is to double the resources allocated to NorCERT. NorCERT has a key role to play in preventing cyberattacks and ICT incidents. So next year's budgets are substantially strengthened. The role of supervision is also important to emphasise. NSM has a clear oversight role in this area as well. It is important to ensure a good balance between security and industrial interests. There is some background to the need for robust legislation in this area and to stress that telecommunications providers also have a separate responsibility for carrying out the necessary risk assessments. It was requested when the Security Act will be revised. The aim is to be able to send a bill to the hearing in the next year, but, as I mentioned, we have already started a work under existing legislation to ensure that we manage risk and vulnerability in the best possible way. The number of measures taken in the various countries has increased. I can only say that in the case of Germany, they have concluded contracts with Huawei for deliveries to their telecommunications and data infrastructure. The same goes for the United Kingdom, but we're not sure if Huawei has supplied nuclear components in these contexts. With regard to our neighbouring country Sweden, they have allowed the use of Huawei components in their telecommunications and data infrastructure. What is central is to secure mechanisms that do not make it supplier-dependent whether or not we have a safe critical infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1088	Case No. 7 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1104	‘Prosperity State and Welfare Society’ – the concepts are more than many other key characteristics of the Norwegian society anno 2012. Key ideas and values include: solidarity and closeness, care, training and education, inclusion. Perhaps much of this can be summed up in the words ‘Community’ and ‘Community values’. It has for a long time built up an increasingly strong criticism of how we govern the modern state, and whether the way we govern is consistent with the values of the same state based on. In the 1980s and 1990s, New Public Management, Target and Result Management, was introduced to the public sector in Norway. This meant that public enterprises should be governed in the same way as private companies and that incentives and governance models should be built up accordingly. This led, inter alia, to: that new words and concepts were introduced, not least the word ‘result’, which is left in both state directives and, in particular, the municipal law and the regulations governing the governance of municipalities. In professional environments, there have been questions about these reforms since the beginning. There is ample access to articles from the early 1990s where a question arises as to whether these governance models take into account the specific nature of the public sector, whether they weaken the perspective of democracy, whether it is possible to quantify the achievement of objectives in public services, etc. Nevertheless, it is only now that there has been a greater national political reflection and debate on these issues. The recognition of these challenges was particularly evident in the Gjørv Commission's report and in the Prime Minister's subsequent statement in Stortinget, where he said: ‘The Commission notes that the expectations in the field of preparedness have been unclear in comparison with those in other areas. It points to something we often experience when setting goals: attention is focused on what can be measured and counted.” In addition, the same statement states: ‘But good decisions also require us to present counter-representatives and listen to proposals for solutions other than our own. We will look for counter-conceptions – professional and political.’ The Prime Minister's main message in the statement is: Security and preparedness are primarily about attitudes. Performance indicators are not required, but reflection, counter-representation and attitudes. This was particularly related to security and preparedness, and, not least, to the police sector. Then it becomes natural to ask: What about the rest of the country’s tasks and sectors — what about the welfare state, what about care, care, health, what about administration? There are many aspects of government governance that I should not touch on here. The democratic aspect of political governance, among other things, is an important topic. In order to mention care, care, social services and health, as many experience, the core tasks of the welfare state are: What impact does New Public Management, Target and Performance Management have on these sectors? To what extent does it build up below the values on which the welfare state is based? Could it even conflict with the basic values of the welfare country? I could have mentioned e.g. the introduction of unit-price financing in the specialist health service. I'm not going to go into this, but the media has given countless examples of how it has given incentives to completely wrong behavior. There is every reason to ask whether values that cannot be measured, such as care, quality of life and community, can serve on a management system based on performance measurement. The findings of the Gjørv Commission report are a good illustration of these problems. They have been visible for a long time, but only now does it seem that we are able to see them in their full width and discuss at an overall level what should be changed. The governance models are taken from the private sector. The paradox is that even in private, commercial companies operating on the basis of a very simple and quantifiable objective, namely the return on invested capital, many have now recognised that there are major challenges in assessing results and giving proper incentives. This can be seen, among other things: in the case of remuneration of managers, where it has gradually been recognised that bonus schemes and options are difficult to design in order to provide appropriate incentives to managers, as they may stimulate short-term, which may affect the long-term development of the company. If commercial companies cannot establish simple, quantifiable management tools, how can we imagine that hospitals, kindergartens, hospitals and departments can do that? One of the better examples of what this kind of logic can lead to is the Health Directorate's 2009 press release: ‘In 2008, 53 111 children and young people received treatment in mental health protection. This represents 4.8 percent of all children and young people. The escalation plan provided for an increase from 2,0 to 5,0 per cent during the escalation period. This objective has thus been achieved far on the road.’» Is it a happy message that 4.8 pst. are all children and young people being treated for mental health protection? I want to quote Jens Bjørneboe, who said the following: ‘Vanvidity does not always express itself through a lack of logic, but equally often through the fact that logic is the only thing left of the mind; counting and arranging is all that is left of the consciousness of the mind. The futility is screaming, but the pedantry is perfect." When the measurement takes over, it also has a different and very serious side effect. The reporting requirements are increasing. In this area, we have probably come further to admit that we are on the wrong course. It's been said a lot wise before, which I'm not going to repeat, but here's a big job. If we recognise that objective sizes and quantifiable indicators do not give a proper picture of the quality and realisation of the values of public services and businesses, then some of the answer to what is the solution is to give greater room for judgement and subjective assessment and, last but not least, to trust those who are to carry out the tasks. That doesn't mean we're going to stop using quantitative quantities, which have a lot of value in many areas. To go back to the starting point — that’s often what you should do to keep the direction: central ideas in the welfare state are solidarity, closeness and community. What does this ideology do with our welfare society and the values on which it is based? For no one can believe that we can implement management systems that do not influence our values, our basic understanding of the businesses and services we run. Professor of State Science Erik Oddvar Eriksen published in 1993 the book «The Public Dimension: Values and Governance in the Public Sector». It deals with the very topic we are discussing today. It was 19 years before the Gjørv Commission, but it has a striking relevance. This is described, among other things: how a more traditionalist view stands against a more modernist view in the debate on governance of the public sector. It leads to the following statements: ‘The normative commitment and solidarity on which the welfare state is based is undermined by reforms that require citizens to act selfishly.’ We need more of a management that reflects and challenges organisations to continuously raise awareness of the values on which we are based, and whether we act in line with these in our daily work. Value-based management or value management may be presented in different ways, but emphasis should be placed on what needs to be described in terms of the opposite of New Public Management, namely services for others rather than maximising their own interests. The time has come for a debate, a reflection and conversation at national level, where we look at the overall question of how we manage and manage public organisations. We would like to discuss reporting requirements and control hysteria. We're going to work to increase efficiency, but we can't break these discussions off from the overall models we've chosen to operate on. The answers are not given, but the direction should be to go from one-sided focus on objective results to more transparency of judgement and subjective assessments – from focus on quantity to quality, from focus on measurement to assessment, where we use the entire spectrum of human capacity – we can count and think as well – from one-sided focus on control to trust, cooperation and dialogue. There seems to be a need for a greater review and debate on how we govern the public sector and the extent to which it builds up or conflicts with the values of the welfare state. How does the Council of State assess the need for a broader discussion on governance in the public sector, which can provide the basis for changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1167	For us in politics, governance of the public sector is an important and overriding issue. That is why it is very positive that the representative, Håbrek, has addressed this issue today. The representative asks how I assess the need for a broader discussion on governance in the public sector that can provide a basis for change. How we govern and how the public sector is managed should always be the subject of discussion and development. Recently, we have made more contributions and input into such a debate. It's a pleasure. Government governance models have been under debate for more than two decades. My starting point for the discussion on public sector governance is simple: government must be governed. The State budget for 2013 amounts to over a thousand billion dollars. Therefore, we cannot take the challenge lightly. We must always be concerned about this: how do we use the community's money and resources? Do we do the right things? Do we make it as effective as possible? Who do we do that for? We manage the community's resources on behalf of the people. Then we have to be able to look them in the eye and say that we made the right choices. Target and performance management gets criticism from many sides. It points to, among others: to measure what can be measured. This may mean focusing on less important things in governance, and perhaps not assessing the main efforts. I believe that the grip was made on going to target and result management, which was essentially correct. In the 1980s, it was necessary to settle with the extensive detailed management of the time. The Hermansen Committee delivered the ‘Better Organized State’ investigation in 1989. The committee wrote, among other things:\t\t You can change ‘In total, businesses will be given greater powers, but they will also be faced with increased demands to clarify their objectives and to demonstrate that results are achieved.’ My opinion is that target and result management is essentially a good management framework. But there's reason to ask questions about whether this is being practised the right way. Another important theme is coordination and interaction. As society becomes more complex and the challenges we face go across sectoral boundaries, interaction and coordination become more important. In addition, the digitisation of the public sector will enable cross-action, increase the need for cross-sectoral response, and require joint solutions in order to reap the benefits of using the technology. The Government’s digitisation programme is an important step along this path to get to that very point. A third theme is leadership. We need good leaders and better government. Leaders must work to strengthen basic attitudes and culture related to implementation, interaction and performance orientation. These are the challenges I'm addressing. I want to further develop a management platform in the state, implement competence measures and revise management wage contracts. Country leaders need to be aware of the results to be achieved and understand how best to achieve the results. It creates efficiency in relation to the objectives set. The public discussion has made it clear that management faces important challenges in terms of management, governance and organisation. However, it is necessary to find out more precisely what this is all about in order to identify and implement appropriate measures. I will therefore initiate work to improve the knowledge base for action and action for a more well-functioning public administration. Here a screening work and several analyses have to be carried out. The problems are complex. But I think the starting point is good. We have highly competent and committed staff – employees who are engaged and who are engaged in doing a good job for the community. It's our most important resource. Therefore, employees must also be included in the work to be done. Let me also say something about the need for changes, especially related to management and management, which Hope points to. I believe the developments we have seen in the public sector, with division of labour and specialisation, are sensible and necessary. But we have to constantly consider how to work as efficiently as possible in the public sector. I mean then, for example. it is more effective for the Directorate of Financial Management to keep accounts for the activities of the State than for all activities to be in and do the same. And it's more effective that state buildings manage specialized property in the country than if all state businesses would do it themselves. That some businesses that used to be part of the administration, are now converted into companies, I think it's pretty much also made sense. I haven't met anyone who wants to get back to the situation when we had the Telework instead of Telenor. The reform of health enterprises is under discussion. But the hospital reform makes us get more for the money. The evaluation of the reform by the Research Council shows that it has meant an improvement in efficiency of 3-4 pst. That means that we can spend three to four billion each year. kr for better and more patient treatment than we could have done if we had not implemented the reform. The fact that many state businesses have been given greater financial and administrative freedom to perform their tasks over the last 20 to 30 years is, I think, also sensible, whether they are organised as part of the state or not. I don't think anyone wants to go back to the situation we had 30 years ago, when we ran into the budget in detail and the number of job homes in each state business. Objective and performance management, which replaced this detailed management of budgets, job homes and salary levels, is a good and sensible principle. But there's reason to ask if there's been too much detail check. In its report on developments in the departments in the last ten years, Digi writes that: ‘The pursuit of faults and defects by media leads to increased emphasis on control. Resources and attention are focused on monitoring and follow-up, and the fear of mistaking departments may weaken the willingness to set clear targets, inhibit policy development initiatives and slow down the development of innovative solutions. The focus of the national audit on deviations in individual areas may lead to unfortunate priorities and weaken the overall strength.’ Many ministerial staff experience that the combination of increased control and media critical searchlights leads to the ministry becoming too busy not to make mistakes. This leads to closer follow-up of the underlying businesses and greater caution in promoting some visionary proposals. Management gets more focus on doing things right than doing the right things. When we are going to discuss the practice of the goal and result management in the state, there are four questions I want to focus on: Do we control too much detail and too little on overall priorities? Are we good enough to stay away from the temptation to make additional administrative assignments when individual matters appear in the media? Is it good enough culture for leaders in the state to say from whose sum of good intentions is too much compared to available resources? Is there too much focus on reporting and control? It is a fundamental challenge that the implementation and follow-up of actions often receive less attention from large-scale and political management in the departments and in the media than the new initiative and plans are given. We need to give management leaders greater opportunity to take responsibility by steering less in detail. This is not easy, because the policy is often in the detail. There are no simple measures we can decide to take. Attitudes and culture are not adopted – it requires work over time. Government and big business must go ahead. The representative, Håbreek, has asked me a simple question in his interpellation. The answer is just as simple: Yes. We need a broad discussion on governance, organisation and management in the public sector. Therefore, it is good that we discuss this in Stortinget today – and it would be nice if we had had more in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1233	The President may, in essence, accede to the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1236	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The answer the Council of State gives is that yes, you want to initiate changes in the way the public sector is governed. It's important. When it comes from the Council of State responsible in this area, it is an important signal. The Council of State also outlines four important issues in this work, such as: there is too much detail, which goes on culture to say from, on some of the tricks from politicians – which generate new demands – and reporting. I think that's good. At the same time, I would challenge the Council of States to perhaps raise their eyes even more in this review and in this work – in addition to the four important questions she has already asked – and ask whether there are no elements here in the governance logic and governance model we use, which also challenges us on a deeper level in view of the values on which the public sector and the welfare state are based. We have received quite a lot of feedback – I think the Council of State is familiar with this – from those who work on the basic plane. It is often perceived that the goals to be set, and the results to be assessed, sometimes go beyond what you really need to achieve, and what you are trained to do through your profession — and ethics — to work with. I have a number of quotes I could have taken, but I expect the Council of State to have some of them. It will always be the way, including in the public sector, to steer through a combination of different governance models – target management, regulation, value management and value-based management. The recognition that should have developed, and which I think is made clear from the Prime Minister's statement in Stortinget, to which I referred, is that we are going to use all these tools, but the balance has become wrong. We need to correct the balance between target management, regulation management and not least value-based management, focusing on the value-based base of the welfare country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1249	I feel that there is a great deal of consensus here from what the representative, Håbrek, said, and what I tried to express in my answer. The public sector is something other than private activity because it is under democratic control, and the instruments of organisation and governance we use must always be based on that. We who govern the state also collect legitimacy from the inhabitants. Equal treatment and justice, and having ethical reflections, putting in other governance parameters than what is often referred to as New Public Management in everyday speech, are essential in the way we organize and govern the state. So I think we all agree that we need to have some measure of what we're doing when we manage as much money as we do. We need to have some overall objectives – but too often we are tempted to change our overall objectives and focus on activities that are easy to measure, I think, quite right. I see that we have a relatively similar approach to the problem. I encourage us all to think through it in our daily work. Because there's no doubt that together we're helping to make it more focused on quantifiable targets than what's related to quality. I think we can all contribute to getting a little less of – and more focus on what is quality, and what helps people get good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1260	It is an interesting interpellant that has promoted, not least because it is invited to a discussion about a little more basic governance conditions in the public sector. It should also invite us to reflect on how we play our role as politicians, as those responsible in the public sector, but above all it must invite us to decide more clearly and more clearly what we want when we talk about having public sector target and performance management. We have had a number of public sector reforms that have underestimated and underestimated the need to discuss the role of policy in relation to the governance signals. When I became a municipal minister, I inherited a reform that the majority on the Storting had adopted, namely the creation of the UN and the relocation of almost all political responsibility for dealing with matters and major issues in the foreign field. When I went into that question, I saw that it was never properly assessed where the policy should come in, how the steering signals should be. This led to the Stortinget reforming that governance after three and a half years. It's a very important learning that we always have to include politics when we start organizing. If we're going to take the term 'trust', which the interpellant is also riveting in, we need to talk about when the politicians are responsible, and when we've left the responsibility and can honestly say that it's not just to push the problem away, but because we're actually not going to have an influence on matters. I have a expectation that politically important areas will be the responsibility of politicians. Therefore, there is an underestimated issue in health enterprises about what political governance really should be like. It is perceived as a distrust of the whole system if no politician is responsible for major structural changes, as we see in the business systems today. I don't think that over time can be sustainable, and it creates some kind of mistrust. That is why it is incredibly important that we start this clearing job by asking: what is the role of policy? Where will it come in, and where are the political boundaries in relation to this? This is my point 1. Point 2 is that we need target and result management to measure the results of the targets. Actually, we're not doing that in the public sector today. We're measuring the results of the activity, not whether we've achieved our goals. We do that within a lot of what happens in hospitals, it happens in Nav, it happens in many other places: how many things have you created? How many activity offers have you given? But not: how many have been processed and have recovered, or how many have returned to work afterwards? For me, there has been a cross of thoughts, and I have visited quite a few of the country's reintroduction companies, to hear when they say that when they submit new tenders, they are not assessed on the basis of quality and performance in their previous tenders, but they are assessed only on the basis of the price they place on the measure. But the goal achievement is what you had of results on the previous measures you had. Did people get into work? Did they get to work? Therefore, the second important point is that we have to be more good at saying that performance management is about results on our targets, not on what activities we have carried out, which is a lot of the governance I see in many of the budget papers. The third point is that it is incredibly important that when you decentralize more and have more target and result management, you have to be concerned about quality standards on the things that happen. Therefore, it is important to develop good standards, guides and good qualities in good conduct, good activity and the way in which they are implemented. Quality systems are one of the most important things we can do in several of our welfare services today. It is closely related to the fourth area, namely management. Leadership is often the main factor in whether things work well or not. When the hospital in Westfold has gone from being one of the worst in the country to becoming one of the best local hospitals in the country, the answer is of course, among other things. tough transitions, but above all it is management, both at the lowest, i.e. the first, the level of treatment, the meeting with patients – that there is good management there – and also at the top level. It is, of course, more difficult for us politicians to adopt good management, but we have to be more good at stressing that it is as often as good or bad achievement as many other political desires.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1277	Thank you for a very important debate. I'm not going to wave papers from the pulpit, I'm just going to draw everyone's attention to an important article that was in today's business on October 13, 2012. There was the side up and down with examples and explanations of why the governance models we have chosen have gradually evolved in a direction where there is too much counting, too poor results and too difficult to control. This began many years ago. I've been in politics a long time, so I remember very well when this came in the late 1980s. I was in the local government, and we were told that we were not really going to take care of the things that the municipality was doing. We were just going to adopt some money budgets, and otherwise we were going to wish each other a good Christmas and a good new year. Then someone was going to fix this, and then these counting systems were going to make sure it went well. It does not, because the public sector is well-being, but well-being is no good and should not be governed as a store. When you try to create markets and systems that are adapted to markets where there is no basis for it, it works badly. It's expensive and a lot of bureaucracy," said Tormod Hermansen in this article. He was one of the architects behind that this kind of thinking got so much influence in Norwegian politics. One of the experiences I've had as a politician, who's really shaken me, is a visit I had in Child Protection seven to eight years ago. Then we discussed the use of coercion in child protection. We were busy registering coercion – that is, of course, necessary. But those child guards said to me, "We've documented this up and down and here and there, and we've written all the reports, but time to be with the kids they didn't have. It's clear that then there's something in the system that counts some crazy things. This so-called liberation and modernisation, where welfare is seen as a product, has changed the governance, it has changed our language. Being critical of this doesn't mean that you want Telework over Telenor, but rather that you want it not to be, to say the least, counting in front of patients. What can we count? I've been working on the Nav system for years. Some of it maybe the most important hub can do when a human being comes in total crisis to them, is that someone has time to sit down with them, talk to them, and maybe get the blackest thoughts off and make a human being think that there's a life tomorrow as well. You can't count that. Such meetings are all the time in Nav, in school, in health care, in child protection, and this is one of the most important systems we can do. We can't count it, but we can do it if we focus more on professionalism, on the skills and motivation of employees, and if the profession gets more control. Many employees and managers report the perverted effects of these counting systems, and everyone shares the responsibility that this has happened – I just have to say – because we are asking for such things, all of them, all the time. My voters' request: Yes, what has the crown you have granted there gone to then? and then I have to document it – there are many drivers in this system. But the core tasks of these systems are not countable. One of the core ideas of this system is that any unit should pay off in itself. When it was a telephone booth, I wrote a piece about this, where it finally said that each telephone booth had to pay for it to be allowed to stand. I think this is also one of the most important problems we all say: prevention and cooperation across departments, administrative levels and various help agencies, because if you first need help, you often need help in many areas. The area where I have worked most is disadvantaged – social assistance. There we don't count that much, but we count heads and heads there as well. That's why I was one of the champions to oversee the municipal services in Nav, and that surveillance report was bad. The word 'communities' is used to mean that the law is violated in the event of a request for financial support. To the extent that they counted kids, that's what they did. But I know it can be that in some municipalities that don't have the counting edges in order, people can get good help, while where the counting edges are in order, it's not safe they've got help at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1300	I would also like to thank you for the interpellation on governance and management. It's incredibly important, and it's incredibly important that we get this taste before we go further into the question in a number of areas. The public sector needs political governance, and it needs public governance that follows political governance. It is the interaction between clear, defined policy objectives and effective public governance that realises it. So it's on two levels. I have to say, of course, that some of the situations we have come into are related to the fact that political governance has been too unclear, and it has been very difficult for public management to follow it up. Thus, the system has had great, great weaknesses, and it is expensive. New Public Management, to which the interpellant referred, now shows more and more of its weaknesses. There's questions about how far we're going to go in replacing it with something else. It gives a red tape and a sectorization, and I fully agree with the representative Solberg, who said – not in direct relation to New Public Management – that there is too little focus on the goal, i.e. the result itself, and there is too much focus on the activity. Well said – quite in line with my assessment. Because ultimately, the overall result is crucial. In the hearing after the 22nd of July, I can now take a small example: a police officer could tell that people in the police chief's area liked themselves, and they stood in the position. It was a good relationship at all, but there were too few employee conversations. Yes, employee interviews are important, but the most important thing is that people thrive. So that's why it's what should be focused, and if a police officer doesn't manage to have the necessary conversations after the book – well, I think that's what happens if it works well. The July 22 process currently under way in the Control and Constitutional Committee, in which I am actively involved, has revealed the need for change. The Prime Minister has said it very precisely – it has to change culture. The Prime Minister has never used the word ‘unculture’. He's said something that's even more fundamental, that it's a change of culture. It is linked to both the political governance and the public management of that governance. I have to say that what is clear to me in some contexts is that political governance needs to take on more than today's goal of building on the fact that it has a cant above the situation, that it shows the ability to gather force in the areas of the Moorhouse that the Norwegian society is, in the areas where it is most important to have something done, that it puts in its governance and political power there and gives clear political governance signals about it, so that the person who is responsible for following it can act in such a way that a person sees the whole of the matter. The emergency area is a good example. Preparedness is a matter of being quickly present with competent people. Therefore, for example, such political cant and power collection should lead to top communication, good professional competence and good local knowledge of the health, ambulance, fire and rescue workers, police and defence workers who have a role in the whole we are talking about here. Finally, public management must choose managers who are qualified to have a natural authority within their profession. In that way they have not only a title, but they have an authority, so that they become natural leaders based on their ability. If one goes in this direction and corrects what is today, one will be able to get much better management, and New Public Management will not be particularly prominent in the political direction of public activities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1319	It's rarely a management policy discussion in the main hall, and I think it's unusually profitable by the representative Hope to raise these questions that have such a clear relevance to current issues, but at the same time are very principal. It is Christian People's Party's view that the market has much to contribute to the governance of society, and also to the governance of the public sector. There is no doubt that in many areas, we have benefited greatly from using solutions that, in an adapted form, are taken from the market and are similar to market mechanisms or are market mechanisms, into the public sector. This applies in particular to areas where the public activity is, or is similar to, business activity. However, what has become a development and, in the opinion of many, has become a hazard, is the use of market mechanisms and solutions by the market as a solution in any context, whether appropriate or not. When you follow the New Public Management principles for the organisation of public activities in areas where it is not appropriate, you can get quite unfortunate results. It may also be that if you don't have sufficient corrections where you use it, you can also get a rash that hasn't been intended at all, and you have few control and correction mechanisms. I believe that we need a critical review of the experience of using market solutions in some of the areas that are initially the furthest from the market in relation to their characteristics – the health and welfare sector. The hospital reform is in many ways the most blatant example we have in modern times, where market price mechanisms have been taken and adapted to a one-way pricing that had the positive effect of focusing the attention of hospitals on getting away from their waiting lists more than getting increased appropriations to compensate for long waiting lists, which were the situation before the introduction of this price mechanism. But the scheme has worked for so long and is so until the degrees that it is obvious that it leads to an excessive focus on money far into the clinical activities of hospitals. Another example is the management of hospitals through enterprises, which makes policy issues, such as: the types of hospital services to be provided in the different parts of the country, which are mostly at home in the main hall, are referred to regional health business managers. There have been attempts to put in some politicians, it's a quasi-solution in relation to the governance model, which is really a pure market solution. I believe that this leads to absurd situations here in the Chamber, where the government council and the prime ministers must be responsible for something that you really don't have or want to intervene in. This wave in the public sector also leads to a change in the basic contractual relationship between voters and elected representatives, which is at the heart of the relationship between citizen and state – citizen and public. It is gradually changing from being an assessment of trust every four years when you have choices, to becoming a customer relationship, a contract-like relationship, where political governance withdraws, and where you get a much greater degree of market-like governance and contract relations between citizens and society. I think that is an unfortunate development in areas where it is not appropriate, and I think it is good that we have a proper debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1336	Let me first say that I can join almost everything the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten said. I am in the situation that I often disagree with the representative Hope in this room, but here I think he deserves praise for having traveled a very important theme. The concept of New Public Management is used for market orientation of the public sector. The aim is to obtain a more cost-effective and faster offer and thus serve the users of the public sector. But I think it is also important to note that much of the criticism is legitimate. Firstly, it is difficult to quantify targets for everything in the public sector, and secondly, efficiency is not necessarily the aim of all public activity. From the Municipality of Oslo, we have examples of the use of New Public Management, where school students from a school in Groruddalen, a municipal school, take a municipal T-Bahn to a municipal museum – typically the Grorudban to the Munch Museum – and it has to be billed between these three municipal floors, but it costs more to issue the invoices than the money it actually costs for school students to travel on the T-Bahn and get into the museum. That's what I'm telling you because I think we need to have a critical relationship with everything that's happening in the public sector, including this exaggerated belief that efficiency is a unique concept. Unfortunately, New Public Management has become so discredited that I think we are a bit in the process of sweeping the child out with the bath water, because of course things also have to be measured. What is important is that measurement is supplemented by something else. That's where I think the chords in the interpellation are good. It's about discretion, reflection, attitudes and values, and not least it's about a culture where it's allowed to make mistakes. I think that's crucial. Here too, Stortinget has an important role to play. If, through our behavior, we're so critical of the detail of everything that's happening, that the individual employee perceives that it's not allowed to make mistakes, we're setting a crazy standard. Finally, I just want to say that I think it is very important that this discussion continues. I would like to thank the inter-pellant for a good initiative and hope that there will be similar initiatives in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1350	I thank you for an interesting debate, with interesting contributions. No one wants to go back to Telecom – just so they say – but I challenge a debate on public sector governance in the context of the values that make us have the welfare state we have. I appreciate the openness with which the Council of State meets the challenge, and the questions she has set up and which she wants to work with in the future. But I also want to challenge the Council of States to go even further into whether it is not necessary to supplement those questions with more questions that capture the value dimension of the welfare state to a greater extent. We have to measure it correctly, there are several of the posts that have been inside. Take, for example: school, education, which is one of the most central areas we have in the welfare state: what are we going to measure in school? Some say that in school we have to measure the subjective quality of life that each individual experiences all the years of childhood that one spends in school. The question is, how do you measure it? Others say that the school we measure by the competence that the student has when he leaves school, that is, the grades. It's the final product at school. It just shows that school measurement is policy, and it can't be reduced to administration. Then to a nursing home. I was about to say, what is the final product of a nursing home? We also have major challenges with the so-called user surveys to measure the quality of hospitals, for example. in the case of dentures, but many other examples could have been taken. Or, as the Council of State replied in an interpellation on a related theme here three weeks ago — an interpellation by the representative Sanner — that it was not just bureaucrats who were employed in the public sector, for now there were many more young people who were helped by child protection. Is that good, or isn't it good? I referred to a jubilant press release from the Health Directorate that we are about to process 5 pst. by children and young people in mental health protection. Is that good, or isn't it good? Measurement is so much, and here we need to ask deeper questions. Raymond Johansen, Party Secretary of the Workers' Party, has gone a long way in settling with New Public Management, and I hear more people here are interested in following this debate further. I think it promises well, and I thank the Council of State for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1365	Let me also thank the representative for a good debate. I think we all agree that the public sector is completely different from the private sector. We have to use other tools when we organize and control the public sector, than the New Public Management principle, as we use it in our daily speech. The government also believes that. So this is an interesting topic, because it's about a lot. It embraces very wide, and it shows that we have a lot to talk about further. I think it's interesting in such debates as this, that when we talk about organisation, a very large part of the debate is about health. I don't know if it's because it's going to be a health debate right after. Often when I listen to debates about health, whether it's in the big room or in the media, it's about the number, the number of waiting lists, the number of people who haven't got the right treatment, but what we're not talking about just as often is all the good things that happen in the health care system, that we have one of the world's best health services in a good deal of diagnosis, and that's what we should actually focus on, and not all of this number orientation. Here I think we together have a job to do when we're going to develop the public sector, so that we get the public sector we want. We must also remember that we have a public sector and a government in Norway that is among the best in the world. So I would also like to thank the representative Hope for addressing a good and important topic, and I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is also sceptical of all the market-based arrangements. There we should have something to talk about in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1376	Case No. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1392	In the course of life, many of us are affected by mental disorders, to a greater or lesser extent. For many, it is fortunate to talk about easier and temporary suffering, but for others, it is a debilitating disease that debilitates them for vitality and makes it difficult to work in everyday life and work. Psychiatric disorders are the main cause of sick leave, school dropout, and so many fall out of work at too young age. For every person who falls victim to mental illness, we lose an average of 21 years of work. It also means many lost opportunities to participate and thus get the mastery feeling and self-respect that it gives to be part of the health-promoting community that work actually is. Even more serious is the fact that mental disorders cost lives. We lose more than 500 people every year because of suicide. There are twice as many people who die in traffic. Psychiatric disorders affect not only those who are struggling, but also the families, and especially the children. Research by the National Institute for Public Health has shown that people with mental illness and addicts experience chronic concerns that can create major health problems even for themselves. We have a responsibility to make sure that those who need it get better help, so that mental and social problems do not pass on. Another and clear proof of how important it is to discuss mental health is all the feedback I have received from patients, relatives and professionals. They tell about despair and lack of help, but also about good actions that have given them hope. I'm going to follow up some of these recordings by pointing to the challenges we face in the field of mental health, but also taking up suggestions on how we can solve them. In 1997, an overall increase found that there was a failure at all levels of mental health protection. That is why we adopted a stepping-up plan which ended in 2008. The result of the escalation plan was better capacity, more people got help, but we were not aiming to ensure a good and equivalent offer for patients with mental illness. There are two main challenges we have to solve. Patients do not receive help when they need it, because there is no offer both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. The second main challenge is that the assistance provided does not help well enough, because there is a wide variation in the quality of the offer. The waiting time for treatment in specialist healthcare was 56 days for adults and 62 days for children at the latest reporting from other tertiary this year. Philip of 22 years is among the courageous who have stood up and told of the long, evil days of waiting. By the end of August this year, 2,146 children and 6,671 adults were in line for help. In all health regions, there is a breach of the treatment guarantee for children and young people. We have also heard doctors, patients, and patients' representatives say that there is a good deal of manipulation of waiting times by getting patients into a conversation and then being put on hold for a long time before they get more help. The National Audit Office’s report, published yesterday, makes this visible. It should be noted that in many cases the waiting period before starting treatment is terminated. And even if the waiting times are long, offers are put down, for example. Cross-disciplinary unit for double-diagnosis patients in the Diakon home hospital was closed this year. In my opinion, the government has a lot to answer for. The first thing we have to do to do something about the problems is to provide better mental health protection capabilities. In 2005, the Minister of Health and Welfare Ansgar Gabrielsen introduced a golden rule that growth in mental health and drug treatment should be stronger than growth in somatic care. We did that because these patient groups had been sitting at the bottom of the health policy table for so long that it needed a strong priority to give them a more equivalent offer. But from this year on, the government of Stoltenberg removed the requirement to prioritize these patients. The current health director, Bjørn-Inge Larsen, said in Dagens Medisin that there had been enough growth in mental health protection now. But the directorate he previously headed published in the summer a report on the district psychiatric services that showed great differences. The report points to some of the natural explanations for it — and important: ‘However, in some areas, the resource input and share of DPS are so low that they can hardly cover the functions they are intended to cover.’ Despite this and despite the long periods of treatment, the waiting times we have, the Minister of Health and Health said yesterday that mental health should no longer be a priority. I disagree. Although the growth in appropriations has increased, we have not achieved the results we wanted in terms of both capacity and quality of supply. That is why we in the Right believe that we should reintroduce the requirement to prioritize mental health protection. In addition to specialist health services, we need to provide a better assistance service where people live in municipalities. Patients with mental disorders have come under the shadow of the Reform of Interaction. Local authorities have not been given the means to build up offers, but they still experience increasing responsibilities when health care businesses propose that more people should live and be treated at home. I therefore look forward to hearing more about the Council of State's plan to ensure that municipalities can offer a better offer to these patients as well. We spend a lot of resources repairing health care. It would have been better both for the patient, for the health care and for the community we have, if we had managed to prevent more serious mental and social problems by giving the help earlier. That's why we in the Right have been in favour of more psychologists in the municipalities, so that we can give young people and adults quick help where they live. We want to try out a system where psychologists can get the same funding system as the district attorneys. It would be an important step towards equalising mental and physical health problems. In addition, several times we have proposed strengthening health centres and school health services, so that health centres can make greater efforts to prevent and treat mental disorders. In Akershu County, the school health service has been put in place to ensure that those who are struggling can get help before they drop out of school. We must make sure that more follow their example. In cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, the National Association of Patients in Psychiatry has established an important offer for the sickest patients through the personal representative scheme. I would encourage the Council of State to look into the results of this offer and consider whether we should put in place some national support schemes for this type of offer, as we have previously proposed. In addition to providing adequate help, we also have to make sure that the help we give actually helps. In 2008, health surveillance revealed wide variations in the supply of DPS. In the past, the right has pointed out that the guidelines for good treatment include: in the case of coercive diseases, not followed up. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State to respond to what he can do to ensure better quality in the supply of the mentally ill. From 2007 to 2011, the number of coercive decisions has increased from 7 000 to 8 300. 5 600 people were admitted by coercion in 2011. At the same time, we still see wide variations in the use of coercion. Today on the radio we have heard one of those who have waited a long time, telling why she finally ended up being coerced because she had been in an infinitely long queue to get help earlier. So one of the answers is to give help before the situation gets acute. The sanitary women at Jären have made a good offer. There, users can register for daily treatment when they feel they need it. There has been a reduction in coercive use and much more satisfied users. So we have to learn from the good actions that are being developed, whether they are public, voluntary, non-profit or private. We have to make sure that the type of measures that also transfer power from the system to patients, because, in particular, mentally ill patients feel more secure and get a better offer if they also feel that they have power over their own situation. The right answer to the challenges of mental health protection is that we should continue to give priority to mental health protection in specialist health services, so that patients are given faster help and not cut off. We must start building up in the municipalities, for example: with more psychologists, better capacity in school health services and other lowthreshold services. We also need to ensure that more professional guidelines for good treatment are developed and that these are followed up, so that the help actually comes out and helps. I look forward to hearing the concrete actions of the Council of State and what the Government's plan is when they are no longer going to give priority to the specialist health service. How, then, are we to ensure that mental health protection is improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1442	I would like to thank the representative for taking the initiative to discuss an important topic. It's affordable. We agree a lot on this matter. Let me just immediately reject the fact that the government does not prioritize work on mental health. Then we have to use the tools and fix them as best they can when they hit. We can have a discussion about that, but there should be no doubt about it. I mean, to start there, prevention is the most important thing we need to focus on as we approach this field, as other health fields, whether physical or mental. Prevention had no prominent place in the Pedagogical Health Plan, although some adjustments were made in the plan along the way. Norway is still one of the most widely used countries in this field, but at the same time we are an institution-intensive country, and we need to focus more on people where they live and to focus more on prevention. Psychiatric disorders can often be prevented — through good breeding environments and a good working life, through work with vulnerable risk groups and through good follow-up. The government is counting on all these areas to be given attention. The Public Health Act, which came on 1 January, states that municipalities should have an overview of mental health and conditions affecting it. Negative developments shall meet with measures. Psychiatric health will also be an important theme in public health, as we present to spring, but most importantly, children and young people are seen and included in the common arenas we have built, the common school and kindergarten for everyone who wants it. Psychiatric disorders have a major impact on sick leave and absenteeism in school and working life. The consequences can be great both for individuals and for relatives and families, on which the representative wisely focused. It is estimated that mental disorders cost society about 70 billion. kr annually when sick leave, social security costs, treatment and social expenditure are included. The overall objective of the Mental Health Excursion Plan was to facilitate a life of independence. Substantial funds were committed in the municipal sector. Information programmes were launched in school and working life, and it was a separate strategy for work and mental health. At the same time, a comprehensive restructuring and decentralisation of the specialist healthcare service – in due course – was facilitated. with the establishment of district psychiatric centres. The Government has continued the requirement to convert towards more local-based services through the mission documents. This is the right direction. It takes time, but we're on our way. The interaction reform further emphasises the role of municipalities and the need to establish comprehensive and coherent services. I will, as Stortinget is well-known, in a short time present a major message of quality and patient safety in healthcare. A central point here is a stronger patient role and to facilitate that each individual can take responsibility for his or her own health. This is a clear signal that users should have a significant influence over decisions regarding their lives and choice of treatment. The World Health Organisation highlights the need for increased understanding and awareness of mental health in working life, school and cultural life. It's the same with us. Both mild and severe mental disorders should be treated locally. There are clear recommendations that psychiatric hospitals should be replaced by local-based housing and support measures in combination with short-term hospitalisation. These signals form the basis of government policy. We're not on target, but we're on our way. It will be important in the future that local authorities succeed in local services and that we complete the transformation of mental health protection. The interaction reform is clear in terms of the responsibilities of municipalities for mental health and the rural area and cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services, but I recognise that this can be a difficult and demanding adaptation. As Stortinget is well-known, the Ministry is working on how the financial instruments can be developed to support a desired development. With this, the most important building blocks will be in place. Then the construction works must be secured. The government has continued to provide significant State incentives from the escalation plan. For 2013, it's about 800 million. kr, focusing on actions in municipalities. 50 million. kr is being developed to develop cooperation models. Among other things, outreach ACT teams have been shown to meet well among those who make little contact with the auxiliaries themselves. I'm worried about the large proportion of young people who fall out of work because of mental disorders. The Minister of Labour and I have worked together on a strategy for work and mental health. Both the financial resources and cooperation between departments will be continued in 2013. A summary of the efforts shall be available before the summer. We will then consider the future device more closely. We have several challenges that need special attention. The switch from long-term institutional treatment to more decentralised treatment with shorter stays and more outpatient treatment must and will continue. Here I want to make stricter demands on the pace than we have now. I would like to make it clear that the interaction reform also applies to mental health protection, but I agree with the representative of Solberg that we must work in parallel in the municipalities, in hospitals and in the specialist health service. The Government has established a scheme of grants for the testing and recruitment of psychologists in municipalities. Here I think the Right and the Government share ambition and analysis. Since 2009, 99 municipalities and towns have received 40 million. NOK in grants. This has resulted in about 130 psychologist positions all over the country. The frame has been proposed increased to 60 million. kr to next year. In addition, we fund exciting pilots through a low-threshold service, rapid mental health care, in the municipalities – I have been and visited some of them – and that gives exciting results. The government has also contributed to a strong strengthening of the free revenues of the municipalities. This should also be the basis for municipal action. I think it is necessary to highlight the municipal initiative, as it is primarily the municipalities that can work preventively and facilitate people affected to master their lives where they live, work, go to school – live their lives. Municipalities that work well in this area and who work well with the specialist healthcare service help to prevent hospitalisation and to give a better priority to who needs health care. We have experience with that. The switch to mental health protection means that people with mental disorders are given more proper and better help than before. We can also say that both capacity and quality have increased. This has been done by setting up about 150 outpatient teams since 2005, by establishing user-controlled sites at the DPS – I myself have visited some of them – by a strong increase in outpatient services and by developing closer cooperation between local and specialist health services. Psychiatric health protection provides assistance to approx. 55,000 children and young people. When the escalating plan started in 1998, to which the representative referred, only 20,000 received such assistance. Measured in the number of consultations and interventions, mental health protection for adults has increased approximately similarly. When it comes to economics, I'm going to warn against two conditions. One is to think that money solves everything. Money is important, but regardless of the level of funding, we need to work harder to increase the quality of supply and reduce waiting time. Here, organisation, conversion and professional arrangements are very central. Still going 80 pst. of the resources in mental health protection for adults for the daily distributions and only 20 pst. for open outpatient and outpatient services. Then go closer to 60 pst. For hospital and well and well 40 pst. to District Psychiatric Centres. People with mental disorders should have the opportunity to live a normal life in their home municipality when they receive help. It requires resources to be transferred from hospital to district psychiatric centres and from day-to-day treatment to open services. I expect health regions to do this, and they're going to put forward plans for how they can achieve the goal. I want to clarify this for 2013. I want to make the offer at district psychiatric centers more accessible and competent. My management requirement is that all DPS, in cooperation with other units, if necessary, have to establish emergency preparedness on a daily basis. All DPS must establish outpatient functions and recruit medical and psychological specialists for this service. The outpatient emergency teams must have longer opening hours and have the capacity to work more intensively with the individual patient when needed. There is now extensive development work in acute psychiatry through the Network for Evaluation, Professional Development and Quality Improvement in Acute Psychiatry. Experience suggests that good outpatient teams mean better health services. They prevent insertions, contribute to better follow-up after printing and improve resource use. But we still lack some knowledge of the utility. Hospitals shall take care of tasks that can only be solved there. It includes safety psychiatry, closed emergency wards and some defined special functions. This means that several services can be transferred to district psychiatric centres as they acquire sufficient competence. The other relationship I want to warn against is to think that we can provide good enough services without having well-funded municipalities and hospitals. Designation without real impact, combined with unrealistic savings proposals, is not the way to generally strengthen services. On the other hand, in 2013, the government is ever adding to the largest budgeted increase in activity in the specialist health service, with a particular increase in the focus on outpatient activity. With a real increase of 6.8 billion. kr to the municipalities are also better equipped economically than if large sums were to go to tax havens. This will be right and important in order to strengthen the prevention and treatment of mental disorders, and I, together with my colleagues in the government, will monitor the proper use of the funds. Both during and after the escalation plan, there has been a cross-political agreement on the objectives for the development of mental health protection, and I found a lot of agreement in Solberg's posts, both on the diagnosis and on the direction for which we are going. So the issues being debated are how best to achieve the objectives. My answer is primarily that the good and the close help needs to be developed in the municipalities in cooperation with the specialised part of the service. New work models are needed to ensure that competent assistance is readily available when needed. In the field of mental health protection, good DPSs with open and outsourced offers are an important part of the answer. These should have a look at the municipalities and have solid hospital functions in their backs. The government facilitates such developments through the Interaction Reform, through concrete measures to develop rapid and simple health care in municipalities and through clearer migration requirements to hospitals. I share the impatience associated with these migrations and will continue and strengthen these requirements in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1488	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think that is a lot in the long-term direction that we can agree on, namely the need for prevention and the need to build action locally. But the challenge today is that it's not in place. And if we continue to reduce what is the responsibility of the specialist health service – in the belief that there is something out there, but that is not there – we increase the burden on the sick, the relatives and the children who grow up in very stressful situations because their parents do not get help when they need it as well as the young people for whom all hospital companies are now breaking the waiting list guarantee. That is why I think it was remarkable when the Council of State said yesterday: ‘I believe that the usual hospital treatment has been pending for several years’ – as a reason why we should no longer give priority to drugs and psychiatry. We who were behind the change that was made did so because these are the weakest, the weakest for which politicians have a special responsibility. Other groups have very strong patient organisations behind them and strong medical powers, while we have a responsibility to lift them. So I agree that it's not just the sum of money that's important. That's the quality of everything else. But it is clear that if there is a signal that there are other groups that have not been prioritised enough, the government has sent out a signal that mental illness should be prioritised. And that's wrong. For over the last few years, the number of people who have been dissatisfied with mental illness has increased. So they're going to be the largest group of people who are being dissatisfied. The number of queues is high. The truth is that if we do what the government now might have put up with – if not the Council of State puts on the brakes and gives clear priority signals – we will transfer more responsibility not only to the municipalities, but also to the relatives. It ensures that relatives, who are already burdened much more than before, have to face the violent challenges that people face when they become mentally ill. About half of all mental - health care work is being carried out by relatives today. We know that there are parents who have children who are charged. We know that there are children who have parents who are ill. It is then important to ensure that the policies we are making do not contribute to increasing the burden. And if the offer is not available in the municipalities – and there is a lot to suggest, as is also indicated in the interpellation text, that the efforts in the municipalities are falling, among other things. Because the interaction reform is now pushing up the need to expand things for the elderly in another way so that other groups are being pushed down – are we in a situation where the mentally ill actually take the strain. There is no time for the State to reduce its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1499	I want to start my second post that I started the first one: it's wrong that the government deprioritises the work on mental health. We want to make it more accurate. I believe that the principle that these two categories — drugs and mental health — should grow a little more than the rest of the specialist healthcare service is a poor and inconclusive signal. For very many of the problems that people with intoxication and mental illness are struggling with are complex. A record increase in the allocation of specialist health services therefore benefits all patient groups. So the representative Solberg is talking a little bit to herself, because she's afraid of building down the specialist health service. Well, we're strengthening the specialist health service. In general, it is strengthened, and we can show that in recent years the number of outpatient treatments in the psychiatric community has almost doubled. But the important thing here is to see the whole of the offer, and there the municipalities become so crucial – the economy, skills and professionals that municipalities can attract, better interaction, the further step of the cooperation reform towards close cooperation between the different actors where people live, providing opportunities for good prevention, better prevention and early provision. Not least, it is important that those offers are close to where people live, so that they can live normal life in parallel with treatment. So it's not coverage to say that it's a depriorization of the work on mental health. We have gained good experience from the escalation plan. We use the experience of what has worked and has not worked, to continue to bet. Then I think we're about halfway in a process of conversion. As I said, international studies show that Norway is still very institutional in this area. It's important, as I said in my post, in some fields. But the big group, the tens of thousands who need help -- and as I said, it's over 50,000 who now get help, against 20,000 at the turn of the millennium -- needs a different kind of help than the ones we had rigged this system for. It is therefore important to keep track of local services, adapted to local circumstances and in close partnership with the voluntary sector, the non-profit sector, the labour market, the school sector, etc. I was talking to 1 700 Russians in Stavanger a few weeks ago. They had a whole day devoted to mental health. We did not receive such offers when I was Russian in 1979. It's a change in thinking, in consciousness and closeness in this area, and there we rate resources. So the whole thing here, with the focus on the measures that take place in the municipalities in close cooperation with the specialist health service, is better supply and direction. I would strongly reject what the representative of Solberg repeats: that the change in how we weigh the budget for specialist health care has a negative impact on those who are struggling with mental problems. We focus on them. They are a priority in the government's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1516	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses in its interpellation. Many adults and young people are struggling with depression and mental disorders — either throughout their lives or during periods of their lives. Such disorders can cause sick leave both from work and from school and at the same time contribute to social isolation. I want to get into three main points of my article. It is research, prevention and treatment. Yesterday I visited Hysnes Helsefort in Rissa together with others. Gerd Kristiansen from LO. Hysnes Healthfort was officially opened by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in March 2011. It is a project that has now been going on for almost two years, offering health care professionals from all over the country to carry out labour-oriented rehabilitation at the same time as carrying out important research work. A significant research and professional environment has been established at the health centre in cooperation with three institutes at NTNU and St. Olavs Hospital. The first results of the research are already available. Very much knowledge of what leads to sick leave, long-term health messages and disability benefits and how this can be prevented will be achieved in the years to come. Already in April next year, we will receive answers to what has worked and what has not worked related to this treatment. This will have a significant impact on the provision of rehabilitation in the years to come. Since the IA agreement was concluded in 2001, the medically reported sick leave has decreased by 16.9 p.m.. Sick leave is now at 5.2 pst. - a decrease of 7.2 pst. from the second quarter of 2011 to the second quarter of 2012. Good professional competence in kindergartens, good school health service, physical activity at school, multidisciplinary community health service environment – including psychologists – and cooperation with specialist health services are important. This is about having a good municipal economy, and it is about having a good interaction between the municipal health service and the specialist health service. We also see that many voluntary organisations do a very important job for children and young people, people with disabilities, adults and people who struggle with different mental disorders. It is important to come from concern to treatment, and then it is lowthreshold services such as cannabis. Health centres, Tjukkasgågen, Active in Daytime, 60plus, training contacts, the Ski Festival Foundation, etc., which every day offers good and important offers in everyday life, giving each person a better quality of life. When the world looks at us from the outside, we are named after the year to the world's best country to live in. Norway is a country with strong and good welfare services with equal access for all. However, there are still unresolved tasks in many areas — including healthcare. After meeting the regional health companies in the autumn, I am relieved. Good and healthy economics are reported. More investment is made in construction, equipment and ICT than ever before. We score better and better on quality, and good cooperation with non-profit and private actors is reported, and not least with the community health service around the country. It is also reported that waiting time and deadlines are getting lower, but it is paradoxical that there are more patients who do not respond to treatment than there are patients who are always waiting for treatment. We have a good public health system, but even the best have challenges, and it is against this background that the Council of State and the government have notified more information on issues such as quality, patient safety, ICT and public health, etc. In the 2013 budget, the government proposes to strengthen the health budget by approximately 2 billion. kr for hospital treatment including both somatic and psychiatry. Demand for healthcare is increasing from year to year, and we see that more and more people are receiving treatment. There is no difference – it happens within outpatient services and within traditional – what to say – bedside departments. But more and more requests for daily services near their home. Good growth, good school environment and good work is a prerequisite for people to live good lives, and it is also important in terms of prevention, mental health and in all areas. That's health in everything we do. It needs to be prevented in a cross-sectoral area, and I have therefore understood that the public health communication should be cross-sectoral between departments in order to look at how to strengthen the overall prevention work in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1555	In a report from the Institute of Public Health, Psychiatric Disorders in Norway: A public health perspective, we find that about a quarter of the population will suffer from an anxiety disorder during life, and that depression will affect one in five. In addition, we have drug-related disorders, personality disorders, eating disorders and schizophrenia. The key to good mental health protection is to get in early with help. Many people tell me that it is demanding to find out where they can get help, and then they stay in a queue. I am constantly told that you have to wait too long, and that the pain becomes more severe during the waiting period and that the need for medication is greater than they think is good. There's a lot of talk about mental health, fortunately, although we have a long way to go to give the right treatment in the right amount at the right time. But now we're at least talking about it. The theme is not as taboo, and people's knowledge has improved. Now it's not either completely crazy or normal. Most people now know that this can affect anyone, that you can get well, and that mental distress is about everything from mild anxiety attacks and depression to heavy psychosis. But that's exactly why mental health is very complex, and it's demanding to provide targeted and correct help. Here I feel that we are failing. A young girl told me that she had been sexually assaulted throughout her childhood from the age of six. Only now at the age of 25, she had for the first time talked to a health care professional about this, because for the first time she had had enough confidence to dry to say something loud. Although it was good finally to talk about it, it tore up a lot of old wounds and she got very sick. In addition, he felt she had spoken to, that his competence was not good enough when it came to the massive sexual abuses she had been subjected to. He thought she should have been helped by someone else. I think it's great when those who are going to give help admit that they're not stretching, but then they have to have the opportunity to pass the patient on to something else, and unfortunately it's not like that. My opinion of saying this is the recognition that we are lacking a quote, and that the waiting time is too long, sometimes irresponsiblely long. But to pay in long waiting times to make an offer that is not right does no one, rather the contrary. Eating disorders and young people who cut themselves are signs that things are not quite as they should be, signs that are easy to see. There's no doubt, there's someone who's hurt the soul. However, treatment provision is small, at least a treatment offer that is adapted to this. I have talked to many who say that they have received help, but they have not received the help that made a difference, and that it is frustrating to stamp around in a health care system in desperate search for health and constantly being referred to something that does not deal with the reason why you started to cut or starve. Then we have suicide and attempted suicide. It is believed that there are nearly ten times as many suicide attempts as actual suicides. Some people have many attempts behind them. Often this is a cry for help. I am recording that the action plan against suicide is delayed, but I hope the Minister of Health will keep up the pressure to complete it as soon as possible. The number of people who are no longer able to live is too high. And finally, a little bit about coercion: the use of coercion does not go down, and it has great variations around the country. I really wish we had something to do with this. It seems to me that people who have been forced never completely get over it, and it's clearly something of the worst that can happen to a single person. Although I recognise that coercion will also be necessary in the future, I ask the Minister of Health to focus on why we do not reduce the use of coercion. I think, unfortunately, this is about we don't have a well-developed offer, which means that we can't get in early enough and give the right help there and then. The psychiatric promise we got together gave us a lot of good for mental health. However, everyone agrees that we did not fully achieve all the targets we had set. Therefore, it is now extremely important that we do not weaken or tear down what we actually did, but protect it and develop it further. There the government has a special responsibility, and it is difficult to see that they actually take this responsibility. The first step must in any case be to acknowledge that it is not good enough, and acknowledge that because of the tight economy very good offers are made. It happens all over the country, and it happens now. The Progress Party will have more community psychologists, lowthreshold offers, earmarked funds and differentiated offers. That is why we have proposed it in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1587	I understand that there is still a broad political consensus on the direction of the development of the psychiatric health service in Norway, as it was also in the context of the escalation plan. The escalation plan was an important tool in building a service that had too low capacity, but it was so important to relocate the service and move more of the resources into the district psychiatric centers, build up some of the old hospital institutions and get a more modern psychiatry. The work has produced results. There is a better offer today, many experience getting help and getting well. It is also a very important myth to kill — in many ways — too many people think that if you are mentally ill, you remain mentally ill. No, very many people who suffer from mental disorders, just like most people who suffer from physical disorders, get well, and one gets very often healthy after short treatment. Treatment helps if you get the right treatment. Just as everyone has a physical health, everyone has a mental health. One must not approach this theme as they and we – it concerns all of us. Most people, through life, will be in a situation where one does not deal with the mental challenges facing one, just as most people go through life and get into a situation where one does not always master the physical challenges to which one is subjected. But there is a need to go further, not least in relation to what the representative Erna Solberg drew up. There is a need to improve the provision of general psychologists in municipalities. It has to be as easy to get help early for their mental health problems, as it is today to get help from the prescriber for their physical and somatic disorders. There is a need to continue to focus on specialised treatment. Too many people wait too long to get help, so they get too sick before they get help, and it often ends up with unnecessary use of coercion. There is a need to prevent widespread but also targeted prevention. The right is very pleased that the government is following up our interference with an action plan on suicide and self-harm by drawing up such an action plan, but I also wanted the Council of State to be able to decide today whether it is about both suicide and self-harm. I perceive that there is a broad political commitment to the Storting just for that, and that the action plan was to deal with both of these issues because there are relationships that are closely related. Those involved in self-injury also have a much higher risk of suicide, and I think some of the prevention strategies will be able to reach both of these areas, but there will still be differences. But there is still a need to prioritise psychiatry, and there is a need for political priorities for psychiatry. That's exactly what was the whole experience with the escalation plan, that without a political direction of the priority of psychiatry, this would not have happened. It wouldn't have happened if you left this kind of priorities to the health service itself. But when the escalation plan was over, there was also a need to take care of that priority because there are so many growth-driven factors in somatic matters, both in the funding system, in performance and to the extent that, if one does not take care of that priority, one will continue to experience that the psychiatry will be lagging behind. That's the background to the golden rule: you have to take care of the psychiatry – and it works. The current Ministerial Council, former director of the Health Directorate, said today's Medisin, February 15, this year: "This increase in mental health protection is a consequence of political commitment." Yes, it is a consequence of a political effort, but we will also see that once this rule is removed, development will again go to the point where somatics will win at the expense of psychiatry. You could call it what you want, but it'll over time result in a down-priority. After yesterday's Question Time, we have also received an answer that there is a politically-desired down-priority due to the fact that there is no longer such a clear steering signal. The health service's leading official has said that a politically guided effort has given rise to mental health protection. Political governance is still needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1602	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate with several perspectives that I share and that I think are wise. It may be tempting to use such debates primarily to discuss what we disagree about. Let me just briefly say that it's not right that government parties have down-prioritized psychiatry. It's a question of what's the most effective way to give control signals. We're very concerned with a reasonable balance between drugs, psychiatry and somatics. It could also have been tempting to go into a discussion about the new proposals for funding healthcare, the so-called free choice of treatment, which I fear will go beyond those patients who do not have the most profitable diagnosis, or the simplest problems to solve. But it might be more important now to add some perspectives that I think we should discuss, in addition to the things that the interpellant has mentioned, and that I have on several points a considerable sense of. One is the possibility of making even better use of the knowledge and resources of healthcare professionals in the field of mental health protection than today when it comes to triggering more effective treatment and shorter waiting times. Some people know the example of Nordfjord District Psychiatric Centres where the employees decided that they would terminate the waiting list. The head of the department there, Trond Orre, got the idea when he saw that two municipalities that he knew well were running very differently. One – with five doctors for 5,000 inhabitants – had up to six weeks waiting time, the other – with two doctors of 3,000 inhabitants – had no waiting time. In other words, the reason could not be capacity, but it had to have something to do with the organisation. What they did in Nordfjord was that the employees put themselves together and discussed how they could find solutions. They did very well, managed to eliminate the waiting lists and provide everyone with an offer of treatment within 30 days. It is not only the waiting time that is a challenge, but also the uncertainty associated with when you get out, it is important to look at it. The other perspective I want to address is prevention. One of the most important things we can do is early prevention, both in order to avoid the need for more people to address our mental health protection and to achieve better cooperation, not least with children and young people. I have strong faith in the importance of upgrading the school health service and ensuring that we have health stations that reach out early. We need better cooperation between school, child protection and child and youth psychiatry, and we now see the results of increased emphasis on early interventions, for example. within the protection of children. There were recent NOVA figures showing an increase of 26 pst. in the number of young children aged 0 to 6 years receiving child protection only from 2008 to 2011. It shows that policy attention and the use of resources targeted at early interventions are effective. The promise made by the government in the field of child protection is relevant to the debate we are having here, but it is also a good example that in many sectors we can really achieve a completely different development in early action, which will save both individuals and society for enormous resources, and not least create a better future for many children. It is important to discuss the questions raised by the interpellant. It is an agenda on which the government is concerned. The government parties have made great improvements, often in cooperation with the opposition, but there is still a lot to be done, and a discussion like this we have good of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1613	The representative, Erna Solberg, takes on an important theme in his interpellation. Psychiatric plagues and suffering are among our greatest public health challenges. About half of all the Nordics are suffering from a mental illness during their lives. Psychiatric health is an important cause of premature death and the main cause of disability, sick absence and reduced quality of life. Depression, anxiety and drug use are among the most expensive diseases in the world, but they can be largely prevented. This can best be done through a commitment to health promotion and prevention, both within and outside the health system. Therefore, it is important that mental health is given a clear place in the National Public Health Notice that the Council of State announces that the government will submit to the spring. The Health Directorate report, Public Health – the path to good health for all, from 2010, points out that the incidence of mental illness has not increased in recent years, but the attention to such suffering has increased and more people are receiving treatment. Psychiatric disorders often arise early in life. Many developers develop a chronic state of friction and relapse. Psychiatric disorders are to some extent hereditary, but environmental factors are also significant. Psychiatric suffering can thus be largely prevented. We know that risk factors include care failure, abuse, low social status, life problems and fractures, loneliness, isolation and lack of social support. Increasing unemployment, increasing alcohol consumption and increasing disability rates in society are also factors that can exacerbate mental health in the population. Physical inactivity also increases the risk of developing mental disorders. Especially when it comes to depression, we see the positive effect of exercise. Increased organisation of public spaces in the form of pedestrian and bicycle paths, parks, etc. is important, as well as increasing the physical activity of the sculetida. Introducing one hour of physical activity every day in the school age could perhaps be an important prevention measure against mental illness among children and young people. Social support is also important to prevent mental stress from developing into mental disorders, and may improve the disease process among people affected. Loneliness and lack of social support are referred to as one of the explanations that immigrants have a higher incidence of mental distress and suffering than others. For children and young people, it is important to be well integrated and safe in the neighbourhood. In its report, the Institute of Public Health points out that the environment with low levels of community and interaction, weak networks and high levels of insecurity and suspicion has a higher incidence of mental distress and suffering. So prevention is more than just giving help before. Prevention is making mental health a clear factor in public health work. I also want to ask that we raise our eyes a little bit, because I think that mental health is a field that requires international attention. In low-income and middle-income countries, 90 pst is expected. of mental health problems not being treated. Lack of outpatient health professionals in the field, low capacity and stigma associated with mental health problems are the major challenges there. The field of mental health has been significantly strengthened in Norway through the escalation plan from 1998 to 2008. The total annual effort in municipalities for mental health work has increased by over 5,000, and decentralised treatment provision has been developed. There has been a strong growth in human resources, and more than twice as many are now receiving help. An important field of action in the plan was also more openness. Prevention of mental health disorders and the strengthening of treatment provision, for they, unless serious suffering, have been one of the weakly developed aspects of the escalation plan. The demand for mental health care is high, and providing assistance to those seeking treatment is a challenge for health services. It is important that treatment is strengthened further. In particular, the provision of mental health care in municipalities needs to be strengthened. Increasing the number of psychologists in municipalities even more than we have done, and providing health and school health services with a clearer role in prevention are important measures. I've been visiting schools that have assigned their own school psychologist. That's also very good experience. However, my point is that as important as increasing treatment provision itself, it is to focus more strongly on prevention strategies in the field of mental health. Psychiatric health must be an important part of the public health effort in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1640	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this debate here today. We can all get sick, even in the face of mental illness. Psychiatric and physical health problems must be addressed equally and with equal seriousness. An intentional commitment to prevention, which many have been involved in, and the early detection and treatment of mental disorders are extremely important. But what's happening today? In Avisa Nordland today, Tonje Rock Løwer in Mental Health points out that there is a cross-political consensus about investing in mental health, but that the opposite is happening in practice. Both in the field of mental health protection for adults and in the field of mental health work in municipalities, the Health Directorate’s key figures summary for 2011 shows a significant decrease in the number of annual works. This gives cause for concern. Let me say a little about children and young people in the process, because if we don't catch children early, they may have to deal with bigger problems for years. One of our most important agencies, many of which have been involved, to catch up with our children, are our health centers. However, as is the case today, only three out of four Norwegian municipalities offer at all about the health centre for young people, for example. This is not good enough when we know that both school and health services are lowthreshold services that most people know and will easily be able to visit. This shows experiences from municipalities that have established fixed opening hours where young people can meet different types of health professionals at an early stage. An increase in health care for children and young people is really prevention, and therefore Christian People's Party is also spending 40 million. kr extra at health centre and school health service in our alternative budget. We all agree on the waiting time guarantee in the field of mental health protection for children and young people. But we also know that over 60 days of waiting is a long time for a child and a youth who gets mental problems. The interpellant has also provided figures today showing that the waiting time is much longer than this. Here, a well-available health centre could contribute both to the young person and not least to the family. Several have been involved in the Pedagogical Health Excursion Plan. During the ten-year period, from 1998 to 2008, the number of children and young people receiving treatment in the mental health system increased sharply. It was actually an increase of 157 pst. The results of the plan during the project period were good, but in my opinion the plan was closed a little too early. There were two groups we pointed out that we did not fully get into port. Long-term illness was not suitable for housing, and it was children and young people who had not yet been well enough taken care of – we had not had them well enough in focus. We tried to extend the planning period and the ringing from our side, but unfortunately we did not get a majority for this in Stortinget. We are now in the process of implementing the interaction reform. Here, mental health is not part of the funding mechanism, which concerns both user organisations, professional environments and some of us politicians. This makes it possible for municipalities to invest less than usual in building up local and preventive mental health services. The Council of State was concerned that he would speed up the transition in the area of mental health. The conversion there we have all agreed on, but sometimes it is possible that the conversions go a little too fast anyway, at least, on which the interpellant was involved, if you cannot build up similar offers in the municipalities, if they are the ones to take over. The previous Minister of Health repeatedly pointed out that no offer in the context of the interaction reform or any other way would have to be built up before new ones were built up, and the changes would have to be adapted to this. But it didn't work that way, at least not in the drug sector. That's something we all have to learn from. Now, the same thing must not happen in mental health. Spaces have become swing door spaces. Institutions are closed, many places are closed. It's really a big tragedy. I'm going to ask the Council of State to assure us that there is nothing here to wind up until you're 100 pst. Make sure that the patients we're talking about here get help. Then another advice – I listened to the representative Asphjell. It is clear that it is very good and many good reports etc. The Council is: Listen to patients, listen to user organisations. They know the reality -- not us standing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1661	I would also like to thank the representative of Mrs Solberg, the leader of the Right, for this important interpellation. Interpellant says that mental problems are one of the causes of high school dropouts. That's absolutely right. As an adviser in high school for a while back, I could see this in close proximity. That is why the Left prioritises the health care service high in both our large-scale election programme and in our alternative budget. I agree with the Minister of Health that prevention is very important, and health care is a good, preventive and socially inexpensive way to provide health advice and services to children and young people. Unfortunately, however, health care services in many places have had too little capacity. There are many young people who are struggling with mental health problems and who should meet at the lowest possible level in the healthcare system. The health care service captures many issues through the trust relationship established with young people and often missed by other parts of the healthcare system. Health care providers and health centres have a wide range of opportunities to conduct outreach activities from the infant stage and thus have good opportunities to provide advice and to deploy relief measures at an early stage before serious problems develop. The availability of services for people with both mild and severe mental disorders is too poor, waiting lists are too long, and it is too random who gets help when. I agree with the representative of Solberg that we need to get better mental health services in the primary health service. I think we need innovation in mental health. The objective must be low-threshold services in municipalities where rapid help can be obtained without referral, which have been visited by others. Nearly 13 000 people are in line for mental assistance in Norway. At the same time, 1 400 breaches of processing guarantees have been recorded. According to the Psychologists' Association, waiting lists are going to be juicy all over the country. The number of clinical psychologists with an operating contract has decreased in recent years, including the interpellant. This is not a good development. Had we had psychologists in the same service as we have doctors today, we would have much more stability for those who experience mental problems. Today's system makes small mental problems become big, serious and life-threatening. In conclusion, I and the Left therefore agree with the inter-pellant that the requirement to prioritize mental health needs to be reintroduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1674	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important debate. Just that the topic is being discussed will remove some of the prejudices associated with mental illness because the prejudices exist. The attitudes of openness show this. A study from NIBR this year shows that only about half say something about their mental illness to colleagues. And scepticism is increasing. You might say you should go to the doctor, but you're very rarely told to go to the psychologist. Being able to put words on mental illness can lead to more people getting help, because it is discovered. For many, getting help is also difficult. It may be a shame to go to the psychologist – think about what they can find out. Someone doesn't know where to go. The fact that the road is short for help can help more people. It is good that there have never been more people treated in mental health than in 2011. It's important that the help comes quickly and is close. Early treatment means that you need less help, and that you do not get so seriously ill. You have to get help when you need it. Not everyone gets it. The worst examples are where you have to deliver in a sick condition in letters to psychologists to apply for help, without knowing whether or not you are being rejected. We have to do something about that. One grapple can take is that decision-makers and DPS should register all those who are referred to treatment by contract specialists. And then you get an overview. Another measure that can be taken is the introduction of lowthreshold services by model from England. Low-threshold services mean that you get help earlier. It may be safer to go to such an offer than to behave to meet the closed door psychiatry often feels like. I'm proud of the Council of State and the government as they now try out the Rapid Mental Health Programme in many municipalities. Many municipalities have good experience in this. The Helper is a multi-disciplinary team providing easily accessible mental health care in the municipality of Ski. They're located at the health centre. The team is multidisciplinaryly composed of a psychologist, a protectionist with training in cognitive behavioural therapy, a psychiatric nurse and a child protection educator. The psychologist monitors what lies around the child — what kind of conditions are around it — and, on that basis, action is taken. The average consultation time is below five hours. 77 pst. the cases are terminated there, without reference. The feedback from the former municipal psychologist Ingrid Sønstebø on Ringerijke is that if the system is too rigid and bureaucratic, as when health care depends on two referral systems, it is fewer who get help than those who need it. On the question of a low-threshold offer will be abused, she answers, who has worked for four years without references: It is a myth that people are looking for help that does not need it. Her experience is that all her enquiries were very real. When you lower the threshold and get help people early in the development of the disease before the symptoms get serious, often a few hours in a psychologist is sufficient. This is probably an input to the Right solution when they want to try a fixed psychology system. Wouldn't this model be too bureaucratic? There are also good arrangements elsewhere. In the municipality of Nøtterøy, Lasse came to the psychologist in ten years after the health sister contacted him. He wouldn't go to school – it had been going on for six months – he had it hurt, and it got worse. Surveys showed normal home conditions, good well-being at school, good friends and good professional functioning. It was assessed that Lasse had had anxiety and had a panic attack. The psychologist drew and explained to Lasse and the parents about anxiety, the body's alarm button, alarm reactions and how to get well with simple grip. He needed three hours, so it was good again. The school proposal was over. Nutrient experience is that they refer less to Bufatat, they work closer to the challenges. Low-threshold services are important and should be an integral part of mental health protection, as we see good examples of that being. And the best thing is, this works. Finally, it is very positive that mental health is now becoming part of the public health report, which has been announced today. It'll lead us on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1695	Tønsberg's Blade is bringing today a story about a Hortensgirl who has been hospitalized 25 times in the last six months. History itself is a report on the shortcomings of the treatment system, but it is also a picture of the very demanding tasks of the psychiatry at the intersection of government specialist health services with community care. This story is also an indication of what is now happening in several of the Vestfold municipalities, where psychiatry and barrages are escalated to balance municipal budgets. For this reason, I would first of all like to note that nearly a third of those who are ill have a diagnosed mental disorder that means that they do not have the ability to participate in normal working life. I think there might be reason to stress that, because the Right has raised a negatively charged debate about the so-called exclusion, where they place all those who, for different reasons, are outside a normal working life. Right-wing interpellations today have a common purpose: they are trying to create a notion of a government that does nothing, that one has no new ideas, that one manages instead of ruling. As the Council of State answers show, this is not the case. However, there may be reason to remind the opposition that excessive criticism also creates expectations of increased efforts and alternatives, and we have seen little about that. I have noticed with interest that the Right Leader has already sworn some promises. It's likely to be more. Mandatory activity obligations and normised periods of illness are by no means the drugs needed by people with mental health problems. So I ask the Right to stop saying that young people go to Nav to get social assistance. It helps to derail a serious debate on the fact that many young people drop out of school and education for various reasons. Because it's not like Nav is throwing money at young, healthy people. They're not going to do that either. Young, healthy people must have jobs and offers of education, and those who are ill should be offered treatment. Very many people seeking help with Nav have a serious diagnosis that causes them to lose their ability to work in the short or longer term. 19.5 pst. of the medically notified sick absence in the second quarter of 2012 due to mental illness. Half of this can be characterised as mild mental disorders. Just because mental illness is an important cause of sick leave and disability, we have a national strategy plan for work and mental health, with the good intention of giving more people with mental health problems the opportunity to get into or back to paid work or activity, or simply helping the individual to master the job he or she has. The strategy plan ends at the end of this year. These measures will continue next year, in particular targeting young people with mental health problems. Nav has established a number of services and interventions for people with mental health problems in recognition of the fact that work is an important part of health-threatening treatment. I have heard doctors say that they have sometimes wanted them to report patients back to work because the job and work environment can be an important part of the treatment. The so-called depression training courses organised by Nav include: in my county, have very good results. We have wage subsidies schemes, organisation grants, unemployed persons, labour centres and county coordinators, and we are training employers, trustees and guardians to seek to raise awareness and knowledge of mental health services and support schemes that businesses can use. But we lack a working life that can adequately deal with people with mental disorders and that gives room to people who are out of work for shorter periods of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1712	I would like to thank the interpellant for including an important theme. We all have our challenges in the life we live. That should also include the previous speaker a little bit. Maybe he should see that there's a good part missing, and that one wants to do it better, which in any case we in the Progress Party are busy, and I think the Right is also very busy. We know that there is an increase in the number of people who get a diagnosis related to mental disorders. This applies to young people and older people, who, perhaps with the right help at the earliest possible time, had made good progress in school, in a work situation or in life in general. I think it's important to see working life in conjunction with mental problems, and to look at the reasons why so many don't tackle the combination everyday, school and work. At least one must look at prevention, at meeting life’s challenges in the best possible way, precisely in order to reduce the number of mental disorders, and not least to treat them as quickly as possible through the whole health chain. I would like to show that, in 2009, SINTEF reviewed national and international research on the topic of work and mental health in order to gain an overview of research-based knowledge in this area. They have concluded that: ‘Psychiatric health and working life is a theme that deserves a place in the debate on working life for several reasons. Firstly, mental illness is the second most common cause of sick leave and disability, and there are clear indications that development is going in the wrong direction. Secondly, there are great ambitions to include marginalised workers in Norwegian working life, including those with mental disorders. Thirdly, research shows that working life itself can lead to mental problems and suffering, and it is necessary to find out what is behind these results.’ In many cases, it is not always a psychological disorder that is responsible when someone gets away from work. In many cases, there are entirely different reasons, such as: grief. The Progress Party has proposed adding a grieving section to the sick leave form. This will also make it easier to facilitate workers who are in a difficult situation and who may require a different follow-up from those with direct mental illness. The pressure on municipalities to have good competence in the health and care sector has increased with the Interaction Reform. We know that it is important that municipalities have an emergency team consisting of both psychologists and psychiatrists when an emergency occurs, whether it is for individuals or in major disasters. In fact, most of it is related. We know that if you don't get good help in difficult situations, it will lead to absenteeism at work and in social contexts. It is therefore necessary to focus on prevention and to see why many people wear and fall outside different arenas. Research also shows that it is important for people with mental disorders to be active, either at work or in other types of social relationships, but then we have to make the relationship easier. Twelve municipalities have received contributions from the Health Directorate to establish rapid mental health care, a free low-threshold service that provides direct help without referral from a doctor. The target group is awakened with easier to moderate problems with anxiety and depression. This is very positive. This propensity and this possibility should have been given to all the municipalities of the country – and to all the inhabitants of the country who have such problems. Wait time when a struggle with his psyche can be decisive for anything a perpetrator goes on in life. Psychiatristenesta should enter the Cooperation Reform in a moment, and honour be the local authority that is foreordained. Those who have access to rapid consultations on psychological services in their municipality and, in addition, belong to a group that is good at treating and following up their patients are winners. For this reason, it is also important that more resources be given to municipalities to recruit psychologists and others with special competence to prevent mental illness. The municipalities that target this will be much stronger than all others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1739	I mentioned at the outset that we have 500 suicides this year. Over a decade, there are 5,000 people who choose to end their lives. That's huge numbers. In addition, there are a huge number of people who are standing back, and many of them are then experiencing mental challenges and problems related to what has happened. Talking about mental health in public space is important, but it's also important to see that we have to work at all levels in the years to come to do something about it. Therefore, it is important to build capacity in the municipalities. However, it is also important to build up the lowthreshold services available. It doesn't always have to be psychologists. Often, there is good help in people who have good skills without having that kind of long professional experience in the field. That help comes early is absolutely essential to prevent things from going worse. Then I believe that our proposal for a right and duty to activity is an help offer that forces both the public and the individual to be active and to address the problems. Unlike Gullvåg, I think this is very good for the mentally ill. Today we report people to have a consultation every fourteen days with a psychologist, and then they sit at home and look in the wall. It won't last. We must have other offers. I fully agree that maybe you can be written back to be more at work, be present, have another type of activity to get it done. I think we agree on some main directions in the future for how to develop this more, but we do not agree on the situation as of today, and what the consequences of the government's priority changes – if I may say so nicely – actually mean. What they've done now is to remove the active substance that's actually shown to work, to make sure that the growth here is going to be higher than in other areas. But the fact that there has been high growth in the years since 2005 is precisely because it has been a priority that that growth should be there. It does not prevent quality or better results in other areas from continuing to ensure that the weakest groups, those who may experience the greatest stigma and perhaps the least priority in health care, receive the help they need and are given priority. Another important challenge that the Minister of Health has to address is the huge difference in availability to actually receive treatment. In DPS today, it varies from 0.4 places per 10,000 inhabitants to up to 10 places per 10,000 inhabitants. This difference is huge. With that type of difference, there will be many parts of the area that will not have the capacity or the ability to provide outpatient treatment. And if we at the same time build down the institutional services for this group, they'll be areas where people don't get to meet their needs, through the offer that's in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1752	I believe that this debate has been good because it has been brought together on what we agree on, and that is a lot. I think that also gives an important signal to people who are concerned about and concerned about their mental health. And as we're all reminded of, it could apply to all of us, and that applies to many of us. There are some principles on which there is a broad consensus, including: the importance of prevention and new approaches to it. The representative, Höie, said it was building up a modern, competent service, and that's crucial. We're on our way, but it takes time to get around and get close. As far as emphasising health stations is concerned, I fully agree, there is something we need to look at carefully, among other things. the capacity there. We need to build up the heavy, big institutions and get more modern psychiatry. Then again I will allow myself to say that what grows, at what rate, within a whole, cannot be an expression of how the field is prioritised. Psychiatric health is a priority. But we also have other large groups to focus on, and it's going to happen within a growing framework. There won't be less money for mental health and the drugs field. This is going to happen within a framework that's growing overall, and then we have to see it in context with what's happening in the municipalities. The key here is quality, capacity and good interaction in the municipality backed up by DPSs that can also be professional support players. I agree with the importance of strengthening access to psychologists, but I think the representative Solberg said something interesting, namely that the psychologist is not always the answer. I don't think we're necessarily going to get there that we get fast psychologists in line with fixatives. There are differences in the nature of these offers. But this with rapid mental health care, I saw at Holmlia in Oslo, where there was a psychologist in a big firm office. All the settlers enjoyed it. They gained their skills, and those who came and got it for free – there were many – benefited greatly from it. I believe that the representative of Kjønaas Kjos made a good contribution on the weakest of the weakest when she pointed to suicide, self-harm, eating disorders, etc. Several representatives were also involved. Let me say that this action plan comes early in 2013 – I put great emphasis on it. It will also include the phenomenon of self-harm, which is part of what we address there. So the representative, Kjenaas Kjos, says something interesting: that many people have received help, but not the help they need. It says something about the challenge picture. I think there's a lot of good, well-being, professionally anchored help, but the conditions are also complicated. It can often be hard to find the right answer right away. It makes us have some humility towards all of those who stand on this line, and help and are present. Let me say in the end, it won't be the way health professionals answer all these challenges. The good local environment, the good neighbour, the good community, the workplace, the school – the people who see other people – are also part of the answer. It is a reminder to all people – including those outside the health sector – that they have a responsibility in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1769	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1783	The first speaker is Are Health – on behalf of the President-in-Office, Thomas Breen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1786	After 10 years of the health enterprise model, this proposition makes some adjustments to make the model more flexible and applicable. An overall committee is concerned with provisions clarifying the overall political governance of regional health enterprises by the State and the Ministry. These include: important that the law directly states that the health business model is not about the operation of business but about ensuring public ownership and political management of hospitals. The Committee supports the inclusion of open board meetings in the legal text to make the principle of maximum transparency in the management of hospitals visible. The Committee also supports the proposal to strengthen the efforts to improve patient safety and quality. This is done by legislating the requirement for regional health establishments to have audit boards and internal audits, which also carry out controls on health establishments. The internal audit will be granted legal access to the necessary information and documents and to carry out investigations that are appropriate for their audit work. This will facilitate systematic work on quality improvement and patient safety. It is important to have the possibility to organise activities that are distinguished from ordinary hospital operations as health enterprises. These activities may be activities which are not, in themselves, specialised health services but which are necessary for the exercise of specialist health services. Furthermore, it must be possible for a health business to have several owners. Otherwise, on behalf of the President-in-Office, I would like to point out that I would like to contribute to improving the efficiency of the public sector by promoting the proposals of the minority. But I understand that the Rules of Procedure do not give rise to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1801	It is probably most natural for those who support the proposals of the minority to promote the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1804	I shall then, in the name of efficiency, keep it as historical, at least for me, is my shortest post. With this I will be allowed to address the proposals that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1811	Then there has been an effective debate. The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1830	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1839	The case rapporteur has had a simple job in this matter, because there is a great deal of agreement on the bill. The proposal introduces a new provision of the Law on Social Security, which allows for the provision of benefits in respect of expenditure on the examination and treatment of periodontitis by dental nurses — on an independent basis — and further provides that the components of this study and treatment are the subject of self-interest 2. Dentists will be able to practice this proposal on an independent basis at the expense of social security. The main objective is to provide a more appropriate distribution of tasks between dentists and dentists. After the change, the benefit will be independent of whether the treatment is performed by the dentist or by the dentist. This will improve the distribution of work between dentists and dentists, it will simplify the management of social security payments and administrative procedures between dentists and dentists, including for county councils, private dental practitioners such as employers and for HELFO. The change could also contribute to increased availability of dental services, both in terms of geography and choice of treatment options. The competence of the dentist will be exploited better than today. Already in NOU 2005:11, the public engagement in the dental field, it was suggested that dental nurses should be granted a self-reimbursement right from popular health for the dental services they are qualified to perform. In the same NOW, a right to direct settlement was also proposed. In St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007, Accessibility, Competence and Social Cohesion The dental services of the future followed up on this, and the case was also discussed in Meld. Art. No. 16 for 2010–2011, National Health and Welfare Plan [[2011-2015]] There were 29 hearing bodies that had feedback on the bill, and it is worth noting that most people welcome the change in the law, and that there is a desire for further expansion of the social security disbursement for several of the tasks that dental practitioners can do. The proposal will mean that dental examination and treatment will also be covered by the healthcare for which benefits can be provided in other EEA countries. The economic consequences of this are assumed to be marginal. The amendment of the legislation will also involve provision for common purposes, as a provision for continuing training grants. But the facility on that department will come back. One effect of the amendment of the law could be that the demand for dental care from the adult population is increasing. We consider that to be positive. Increased use of dentists could help increase the number of dental nurses looking for work in areas where we have low dental cover, or where we have very low dental cover. In the future, dental care will be important in many fields and can be used even more in the area of prevention and care for the elderly, as well as the tasks that the law now opens up. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party have their own comments indicating that the Government has too little follow-up to the 2008 Joint Committee. They are impatient, and I expect them to explain their view afterwards. The Committee therefore welcomes the amendments proposed in Prop. 123 L for 2011-2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1867	First, let me thank the case rapporteur – and indeed the entire committee – for a very constructive and good work on this matter. For our part, there's really just a need to give a short additional comment to a point where we've marked a certain discord, or at least some scepticism and concern. The promotion party is concerned that there are still municipalities in Norway — and more than we like to think about — which, on the grounds of professional secrecy, do not notify the county dental services of patients entitled to a publicly funded dental service. In our opinion, this must be based on a misconception of what is covered by the obligation of professional secrecy, and we stress that the Health and Welfare Act clearly establishes the municipality's obligation to provide the necessary health care, and that this must also include providing the necessary dental care for those patient groups for which the public has a special responsibility. It is worrying when a survey from Hordaland County shows that there is only one in three home residents with home care who receive dental care from the public. Communication failure is also shown to be the main reason why so many do not use this free offer. In that case, it is simply not good enough. We are also disappointed that the government has not followed up the intention in St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007 to put in place protective arrangements for those who need it the most, but who do not currently have the opportunity to receive the dental care they need — despite the fact that the National Assembly of the Labour Party has focused on this, commendably, with good both interventions and debates. But the policy must actually be followed up in this Chamber and not just at its national meetings. Now, only four years after the review of the Storing Communication, the necessary legislative changes are proposed in order to establish reimbursement schemes for dental nurses carrying out the study and treatment, this is a late but natural follow-up to the Storing's expressed willingness to base the LEON principle also within the dental field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1882	I only have a few comments. Studies show that in the private sector in 2004 and 2005, general practitioners used an average of 40 psts. by their working time for the tasks of dental care are considered qualified to perform. In the districts, there may be shortages of dentists. Then it'll be good if you can improve the distribution of problems between dentists and dentists. Since we have submitted today's case in the committee, we have received some concerns about whether dental care has the ability to carry out the studies that we are giving them today the right to do through this amendment. But the Christian People's Party expects, as it says in the proposition, that "dental nurses are given the self-reimbursement right from the public interest for dental services they are qualified to perform". In fact, the government also refers to the pro-position of the National Health and Welfare Plan NSP 2010–2011 and its setting, which calls for a change in the educational system to ensure this. [[2011-2015]] With this assurance, the Christian People's Party is voting for the changes proposed by the government in Prp. 123 L for 2011-2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1895	The bill now under consideration by the Stortinget will be a major milestone in the history of dental practice. The development of this profession has been historically inextricably linked to the development of the dental profession and the working situation of dentists. The dentists have been primarily assistants of dentists. It's not like that anymore. I think on such a day we can put this into a little bit of a historical perspective. The dentistry had its origins in medicine, in doctors' craftsmen, i.e. the surgeons. In 1893, their own dental education was established in Oslo. Then dentists needed help, i.e. the need for office ladies to streamline and help with the clinical activities. It may be a bit about Norway’s development that at this time 1 pst went. by the schoolchildren in Oslo to dental practitioners — or, to put it another way: 99 pst. didn't do it. Then, too, the teachers complained about the alarm in the hours, but then toothache was a real concrete and legitimate reason why children were fighting. The first public dental care was organised in the Municipality of Oslo in 1910, when free school dental care was introduced. Some dentists thought that you should train "dental nurses" according to a model from America. These could assist dentists to double the effectiveness of dentists. So that's when you got on track. In addition, they should be able to examine teeth, perform preventive treatment, clean teeth and oral training. In 1924 a one-year training was started by dental nurses, the first in the Nordic region. So we have some long historical roots to build on until today. Among the dentists, however, there was a great fear of developing a dental proletariat. It was claimed that the new group could also be tempted to begin as quack ointments — nothing less. The dentists also feared competition from a new profession. Education was stopped already after one year. Only after World War II did education start again. At the time, karies was a very common disease among Norwegian schoolchildren. At the beginning of the 1970s, two-year education was established in Oslo and Bergen — both under the odontological institutions. In other words, it took almost 50 years before education was given the content and scope proposed at the beginning of the last century. Some battles have been long to fight. But education was mainly directed by dentists. Most dental nurses have worked in the public sector, with preventive and health promotion work. Children and young people and beneficiaries of municipal care services have been the main target groups. In the county dentistry, dentistry has more and more taken care of regular dental checks. With this bill, dental care will have an independent role in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease periodontitis. This is a disease that occurs mainly in the adult population. In a short time, there are as many dentists in the private dental sector as in the county dental services. The legislative proposal thus means that more adults will have the opportunity to make use of the competence of dental care professionals. In this context, the combination of specific prevention skills, self-administered oral and diagnostic training and the treatment of periodontitis will be of extra value to those who pay mainly for dental treatment. In 2012, the public funding for the study and treatment of periodontite and the follow-up conditions of the disease will amount to approximately 500 million. kr. Through this legislative proposal, the qualifications of dental practitioners can be used in the best possible way to prevent and treat this disease. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are concerned about how the obligation of professional secrecy is used as an argument in several municipalities as an obstacle to the exchange of information for the County Dental Service. Then I would say, the duty of privacy is there to protect, not to prevent anyone from getting what they are entitled to. I am well aware that many municipalities and municipalities have good cooperation in this area. Buskerud is a good example of that. There, the municipalities and the county have put this in order. When a person or user becomes a recipient of municipal services at home, he/she is informed by the municipality of his/her rights under the Dental Services Act. The user’s consent was then requested to submit information to the dental service. The user or his/her relative completes a consent form. Thus, contact has been made between the two service areas, and he is contacted by the dental clinic with dental services. From the county municipality it is said: «The obligation of absence is our opportunity to have a good cooperation with the municipality.» I can assure you that I will make an appropriate contribution to good cooperation between municipalities and county councils for the benefit of those who have rights under the Dental Services Act. Subject to the Bill of the Storting and the 2013 budget decision, I intend to implement the new social security scheme for dental examination and treatment from 1 January 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1918	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1932	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1941	The majority is dealing here with a comprehensive draft representative in 18 points and 16 of them have been tabled as motions for resolutions. Good health services for all are the basis of safe life. That is why the debate on the sector's framework conditions and governance is absolutely necessary. As you can see, today's debate is of great value. The number of proposals gives the case rapporteur too little time for a broad review of all the proposals in a first step of 5 minutes. Let me give you some initial views from the majority parties. The proposals contained in the suspension relate to routine review, external evaluation, new funding models, waiting lists, management organisation, conversion procedures, pace of conversion, equipment investment, own hospital proposal, patient injury replacement, transparency culture, rehabilitation field, cancer care and pharmaceutical policy. As a background to the proposals, the rapporteurs express their views, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The health service is currently offering a good number of patients, as a result of competent health professionals doing their utmost to meet their patients on a daily basis.’ The proposers further state: ‘Norwegian media have at all times revealed isolated incidents in the healthcare system, which means that patients do not receive the healthcare they can expect. This is likely to always be so.’ The government parties and the Christian People's Party are alone to express agreement to both of these quotes in the setting. The Government Parties refer to the letter of the Council of State that on 7 September 2012 with replies and deepenings related to 18 proposals. In our view, the letter, together with reference to the relevant laws, the budget deliberation and other relevant matters, the new national health and care plan, the upcoming quality and patient safety reports, official statistics, etc., respond well to the proposals. The rapporteur would point out that the proposals for representatives range from significant proposals for funding, which are related to the treatment of the State budget, to issues which are part of ongoing processes and work. In this article, the rapporteur must choose to comment on one, on some or all of the proposals. Given 30 seconds each for introduction and termination, any suggestions that have been made could get 15 seconds each in this post. So the format of the debate is not suitable for that. Therefore, I concentrate on the remaining speaking time on the proposal for the winding-up of regional health businesses. After the hospital reform, the state owns the hospitals. I haven't recorded heavy political debates that problematize this ownership in recent years, and I think it's very good. Furthermore, my experience is that the organisation of hospitals in companies also has broad support, at least a few actively reserve themselves to use terminology from our work on health records. When we come to the management of hospitals, it's a clearly political distinction. Both the Right and the Advance Party will remove the regional health businesses. I think that is a real and concrete political position. However, hospitals are a large sector with 100,000 employees, a high level of competence, responsibility for life and death, and help in the most difficult phases of life, and therefore the sector must have a responsible governance axis from the Council of State to the very end. The Progress Party and the Right will break such a responsible management axis – and in my opinion – without presenting a concrete and safe alternative. Instead, the Advance Party wants a hospital directorate. The number is short, and I have to talk short and clear. In my opinion, a directorate is the worst of all imaginable models for the management of our hospitals. I would like to challenge the Progress Party in the debate on whether the speakers of the Progress Party can provide at least one example from today's Norway where we get good and 'hands on' political governance in an important social sector through a directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1975	The President will only recall that the speaking time framework in this debate is at the Committee's request.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e1978	I'm going to go a little systematic through our views on the matter, but first of all I want to replicate that until this with the directorate at least the Labour Party has the perception that the police directorate works very well. I would also like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that the Committee on Programmes of the Party of European Socialists has unanimously proposed not to have a directorate as a solution in our current party programme. He was also mistaken when he added up lots that would remove regional health companies. He quickly forgot that both the centre party and the SV in this room and in the media have brought about exactly the same thing. We all know that the hospital sector is a large and comprehensive sector that should provide good and necessary healthcare to all its citizens. Of course, the quotation that Helseth had from our Document 8 proposal – that Norwegian supervisory authorities and Norwegian media have at all times revealed isolated incidents that have resulted in patients not getting the health service they can expect, and that is probably how it will be in the future – remains. However, I feel that in recent years many conditions have been revealed in Norwegian hospitals that need to be met with concrete measures. The waiting list juxtaposition, or uncertainty about the quality of these lists, is more relevant than ever after the last report of the National Audit Office. Defective patient safety, migration processes that have been or are still out of control, extensive maintenance of buildings and hospital equipment are – just to mention some – challenges facing the Norwegian hospital community. This is the backbone of our proposal that there is a need for a review of systems, structures, legislation, capacity and resources to meet the challenges that have been highlighted, but perhaps first and foremost to implement some measures that ensure patients in Norwegian hospitals better than today, although it is good for most people. We are disappointed that the government does not sufficiently comply with this view, and unfortunately it is clearly expressed in the response to this proposal by the Council of State. It must be possible to focus on the challenges that remain unsolved in health care, even though much of the health care system works well, without being accused of black-painting. We therefore believe that an overall approach to these issues is a smart and necessary way of approaching this. That is why the proposal is so far. We are also of the opinion that the health system today is too much influenced by trying to solve challenges in the sector without a necessary holistic approach. This can quickly result in solving one problem, thus creating a new one and thus perhaps putting the system in front of the patient. It is a prerequisite for a common sense of reality when we are discussing the needs of the sector, both among political authorities and not least in the professional community. In fact, we are solving this by having an independent review of the hospital sector with the mandate to point out weaknesses in governance and organisation and to propose solutions to it. In this way we will hopefully be able to have a constructive debate on solutions, and not just on problems. I would also like to stress that the specialist health service faces major challenges regardless of who in this room has a majority and who rules. There is a need for smarter and better political governance of the health sector in this room. Whether the regional health businesses are laid down, as we wish, or whether the bureaucracy is maintained, as the representative of Health and his party wants, we believe that the Stortinget should be able to deal with a national hospital plan that sets out the overall framework for the specialist health service. I can't believe why red-green politicians in this room spend so much time and energy preventing the country's National Assembly from having any influence on this. In all these areas, the opposition has proposed concrete policies to improve the quality of hospitals, to ensure smarter health management, to improve patient rights, to reduce health cows, to improve the provision of rehabilitation, to strengthen the investment regime, to invest in ICT and much, much more. In this case, we have promoted a total of 16 proposals, 10 of which are common citizens. I am amazed that the position is so sure that everything is perfect in Norwegian health care, that they reject all these proposals and any other proposals that the opposition has made for a long, long time. I will also be allowed to address the suggestions in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2008	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2011	Since on the red-green side it has become so popular to lie sleepless and have fever fantasies about what is Right Policy, and then to wake up the next day and argue against what has been dreamed of, I intend to use this article to talk about what is Right Alternative in terms of the management of hospitals. It is now ten years since the state took responsibility for the hospitals and the rest of the specialist healthcare service – that was right to do. The responsibility was then shared by 19 county councils, there was too little coordination of functions, there were different health services in different parts of the country, and there was a blackeper game of responsibility. All of this has improved since the state took over responsibility, but that doesn't mean we're rid of all the challenges. The division into four high-power health regions has led to disparities in the interpretation and practice of national health policies in the parts of the country. Although the Minister of Health and Welfare has constitutional responsibility for the health system and has to respond to it in the Stortinget, the decisions of regional health companies are often referred to, and thus continue to be the responsibility of the respondent. It shows not least the National Audit Office's report on the ownership management of Oslo University Hospital. There have been major changes in the hospital structure and the content of healthcare, and there is a trend that will continue. However, health is a policy, and the population is therefore right to respond when important changes are made, without being able to place the elected representatives in charge. The Minister of Health responsible refers to corporate governance, while the government party’s representatives stand in the plenary and demonstrate. Local hospital administrators, HFs, feel that they are managed in detail by the regional level. Remote management requires more bureaucracy, and leaders are far away from those who work with patients. Therefore, the right considers that there is a need to make changes in today’s organisation — not changes that directly affect individual hospitals and employees, but in the overall governance. We'll do that using two main changes. The first and most important is the establishment of an operational national health and hospital plan. It shall include, inter alia: contain minimum requirements for the key functions to be found in the different types of hospitals and the different parts of the country, and quality requirements. It shall ensure national coordination of key functions, such as: ICT infrastructure. The plan shall provide an overview and prioritisation of major investments, such as: where you need new hospitals. The plan shall be drawn up after professional involvement, in cooperation with the local authorities and the hospitals concerned. Finally, it shall be adopted in the Stortinget. It will balance the democratic deficit that exists in today's model, and it will place political responsibility. The second main step that the Right wants is to wind up regional health businesses. We have a little less than 20 hospitals today, HFs, in Norway. We want to make them more independent and decentralize both resources and power from regional health businesses to these governments and managers locally. Once the Storting has drawn up the framework through a national health plan, hospitals will operate within these frameworks. Then you'll get more close between those who work with the patients and the leaders. What nurses and doctors today describe as ‘glavalag’ between them and those who decide will disappear. Many of those who are critical to the Right solution are very concerned about what we are going to replace regional health businesses with — as if it were natural to have a level of independence between the Ministry of Health and Health and individual health businesses. I think that is wrong. The whole point is to have administration until you meet the director of the hospital, for example. it is in the university and higher education sectors. You don't have your own university and college directorate, and you don't want your own hospital directorate either. However, it will require that parts of the management and planning competence, which are currently in the regional health enterprises, become part of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It doesn't necessarily mean that this has to be moved to Oslo. On the contrary, there are very good reasons to have parts of this localized regionally. It will safeguard local knowledge and the proximity of hospitals. The right also believes that national functions can be located elsewhere than in Oslo. For example, a national ICT health enterprise may: located elsewhere than in the capital. Whatever the system, the most important thing is to be well managed — locally and nationally. Good managers can compensate for poor management systems, but there is no management system capable of compensating for poor management.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2043	I must first point out to the last speaker that it is difficult to lie sleepless and dream at the same time. I, for my part, sleep well about the networks, but think a lot about the consequences of the Right proposal, and it makes me – if not sleepless – a little worried. Let me first tell the representative Per Arne Olsen that comparing a possible proposal on hospital directorate with what SV has proposed regarding hospital organisation is not going to be correct. It's true that SV has been critical of today's corporate organization, and that we want alternatives to it, but the centralization that the creation of a directorate will mean is against us. I believe that the experience with the tendency to establish more and more directorates in the administration is negative, and that instead we should look at the possibilities to reduce the scope of that way of governance. I see that one of the many proposals from the representatives of the Progress Party is a strategy for the red tape of specialist health services. I agree that we need that. There is too much unnecessary bureaucracy in our health services today, and our health workers spend too much time on papers, and so in some cases there will be too little time for patients. Nevertheless, I am surprised that the Progress Party concentrates its criticisms on bureaucracy, only on the existence of regional health businesses, and very rarely touches on what may be the main reason why we have too much bureaucracy: too widespread market thinking in parts of our healthcare system and a willingness – among politicians from all parties – to introduce ever new control measures. I believe that as politicians – across party divisions – we have to dare to challenge each other if development has gone too far in imposing standards of control and quality, which are both legitimate and justifiable, but which, perhaps in sum, make the time that our great health workers have to spend on papers become too great. In our media society, concrete action is always called for in the face of a concrete problem, and I believe that both politicians and journalists have had a little too easy sometimes to resort to new reporting, supervision and bureaucratic instruments to deal with such problems. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister of Health is taking this into account. Work is now under way, together with the parties – the trade unions and the Specter – to look at how to reduce the scope of unnecessary red tape. At that point, it is quite clear that the government has a strategy to solve the problem that the representatives point to. At the same time, I think it is important to challenge the representatives back, because the extensive market thinking that the Progress Party stands for would lead to a significant increase in the bureaucracy in our health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2054	In this case, there are many proposals, which together constitute what the proposers refer to as ‘a total review of the management of the hospital sector’. Many of the proposals have good intentions and are important, but most of the proposals are, as I see it, either in existing or pending plans, messages or budgets, or there is real political disagreement about them. I agree with the Council of State's assessments in its reply letter to the Committee and support the inclusion of the proposals in the minutes. Nor can I go into all the suggestions in this article – until there is too little time. But I want to mention especially a few themes that I think are very important. The proposers are concerned about a practice in healthcare professionals that can bring about a fear culture among health professionals, which in turn leads to an increased risk of adverse events. This is a signal that we're going to take seriously. I am concerned about this precisely because I have noticed many examples and received many feedback about varying and unfortunate practices in this field in some companies. It is therefore commendable that the Council of State is so clear that it has been clarified in the run-up to regional health professionals that they have the right to come up with criticism, even in public spaces. A true democracy implies an enlightened publicity. Professionals' contributions to the word change provide decisive public information. In Grundlova § 100 it says: «Friendly Opinions on the Swedish National Board of Directors and any other Item are Any Allowable». And on the other hand, "It is for the authorities of the State to bring matters to justice for an open and public debate." So, as the populace, we are obliged to ensure freedom of expression for the people and listen to different points of view. Wise political choices are made by the populace in an open communication with professionals who know where the shoe prints. Lack of a culture of openness may compromise patient safety and the necessary improvements. Leaders are responsible for ensuring a healthy rise in the border between loyalty and freedom of expression. Within the framework of the professional obligation to provide services, not only shall it be clear that health workers can express themselves in the public space; we are, in fact, under the constitutional obligation to actively facilitate this. The Constitution states that only ‘very heavy consideration’ can speak to limit freedom of expression for anyone. I think that when healthcare professionals refer to communication strategies, ethical guidelines and a loyalty approach that they themselves have defined, this is not a particular heavy concern in a freedom of expression. A doctoral thesis by Hogne Sata Island shows that the number of communication sites in Norwegian hospitals is double with the enterprise model, and that almost all communication managers are in the enterprise guidance. Enterprises are occupied with the reputation and the construction of their reputation, of course. According to the doctoral thesis, exactly the smaller room for an enlightened public, with greater concentration of power to the health bureaucracy. But the population seems to be informed by a wide range of people, and not just by means of the route communication strategy. We must work actively to prevent a debate on health policy with an obligation to take care of children, because this ultimately affects those for whom the health care system is for, i.e. patients. Since the health model was introduced, there has been a great deal of positive in the specialist services. Many more people are being treated and the sector is being strengthened financially. But it is also a fact that there is a political disagreement about the enterprise model. Unlike the proposers, who now criticise the current organisation of the specialist services, the Centre Party was opposed to the introduction of this organisation. We are some with the opposition when it comes to the proposal for a national hospital plan, but in spite of all, it was the red-green government that is promoting the very first national health plan, which we extended in 2010 to a national health and care plan, where specialist services were mentioned in a separate chapter, and where minimum requirements for functions in a local hospital were clarified for the first time. This plan can become even more politically governing at the time of the next roll, so that the role and responsibilities of the Storting are clarified. Having a quiet rental in each hospital is another example of measures that will improve the organisation of specialist services. It can happen either in a business model or outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2089	Today we have a healthcare service where more people work with administrative tasks in hospitals than there are doctors in Norwegian hospitals. The Christian People's Party believes that today's division into regional health companies is an obstacle to effective structure, patient flow and transfer of competences. The Christian People's Party has long called for the liquidation of regional health businesses. We believe that this will lead to a simplification and reduction of the bureaucracy in healthcare, so that more of the resources can go directly to patient treatment. The department must have overall responsibility, preferably through the owner's department. We have said this for many years. The Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening the political governance of hospitals both centrally and locally. A key prerequisite is that the Ministry’s ownership management will lead to simplification in comparison with the current system for the management of regional health enterprises and health enterprises. This is based on the empowerment of health establishments. It may seem that the liquidation of regional health enterprises and the merger of the management of health enterprises in the Ministry of Health and Welfare may be a centralising act, but some of this is precisely intended to strengthen national policy governance of the specialist health service at a general level. As the Christian People's Party thinks, the change we want will primarily have a decentralizing effect. Local health establishments will be given clear responsibility for defining needs and designing their services. Of course, a more detailed division of responsibilities and task-sharing must be reviewed before such a change is implemented. But I think the time is ripe. Regional health enterprises have done their job with structural changes, aggregations, etc. – maybe I have to say apart from Health South-East, where the problems seem never to end. The new report of the National Audit Office fully confirms this. It may well be called full slaughter for lack of investigations, planning and implementation. From 2010, the Christian People's Party has put the spotlight on the transition, among other things. in Health south-east. Time and again, we have asked whether patient safety has been ensured, whether the staffing plan is good enough, and whether the planning targets. The government's answers were the same every time: everything's fine. We have control. Patient safety is not compromised. It's almost tempting today to say, what did we say? We realized that something was wrong. Now I'm not going to blame it all on the structure. The matter needs to be considered – there is probably more than one reason why Health South-East has not improved. Finally: In general, we have many injuries in Norwegian hospitals. A lot of people have been into it. Studies show that up to 16 pst. all patients are injured in Norwegian hospitals. In addition, new figures show that approx. 2,900 patients die unnecessarily of unfortunate events. We can't have it that way. In the past, it was said that once you had come to play, you had come into the best hands. Now we're running a patient safety campaign called in safe hands, and I think that's very good. We need that, we're happy about it, and we fully support it. However, the overall responsibility for the best or at least safe hands of the patients must ultimately lie with the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Council of State. Then I don't least think about the framework conditions. We are also looking forward to a new big message with quality and patient safety in the high seat. In order to create good working conditions for health professionals, so that they function well in their job and can do their utmost to provide good patient care. ICT solutions and medical devices must not least be maintained and in good and up-to-date so that they are known to work when needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2107	Thank you for an interesting debate. I think it's the first of several when it comes to managing Norwegian hospitals. I would also like to thank the representative, Höie, for having now elaborated a little more on how the Right looks at the management of the hospitals. It was clearer about the model after talking about chiefs and Indians and faceless bureaucrats – a concept I otherwise take a distance from. I think it's an irreverent way to talk about people who work hard in the Norwegian health care system after political instructions to make a good effort. The responsibility lies with the Council of State, and the overall lines are in this room. We now see more clearly the outline of the model of the Right and Advance Party – the closure of regional health businesses and an alternative approach. I would be allowed to say that the study of what the Norwegian hospital system provides to patients, increased patient treatment, raised the treatment level to the top level in the world class. It gives the impression of a sector that makes good sense. Then it's right that the representative Olsen was into, that there will always be a focus on individual matters. We must pay attention to them and try to correct them, but they must not take over. I believe that today's organisation ensures something important. Let me mention five aspects: firstly, we carry out the Storting's will. The Health Minister has political responsibility, and we have well and regionally anchored political governance of an equivalent health service across the country. It's a diverse country, and they're going to choose slightly different in different regions. It's wise, and it's natural. That's how we do in almost all other areas of society. Secondly, we keep up with technological developments and treat several patients through both specialisation and decentralisation of services, and can make them available to everyone. There has been a fantastic structural change over these years. I do not believe – as was said by the representative of Davøy – that that structural change is over. I think we're going to live in a continuous transition. The city I'm from is going to experience a population increase someone says will equal one Molde every two years in the coming years. Of course, we need to be in transition in the hospital sector all the way and understand the local and regional consequences. The third is that we have regional ties, popular anchoring and knowledge of regional relations. It's important, for 90-95 pst. of a patient course takes place within the region. Organisation in regions helps to improve patient progression within the region through good distribution and division of work between hospitals. It's done pretty close. Fourthly, we have not least been put in order in the hospitals’ economy, with a new room for investment and new initiatives – think of where we were in 2005. Fifthly, we have good governance and priority in emergency situations. It has proved to be important. I am pleased that the Right has great confidence in the Ministry of Health – it is also trust in the owner's department. I have both confidence in it and great sense of it. But what we are hearing now is that around 310 annual works in regional health companies are to be laid down. The parties have asked me what the consequence will be in savings. Then I want to say that there is one clear savings, and that is that the boards are being laid down. They won't get any more to do. All the other tasks done by regional health companies, I believe, are of such a nature that they need to be solved. Then there will be - plus/minus - 300 more in the Ministry of Health, and even if it should be located elsewhere, it means centralisation. That means -- I don't know where you're going to put these functions -- that in the west, in the middle, in the north, and in and on, also in the south-east, you should ask yourself some questions about where this is going. This will mean centralisation towards greater distance from the decisions taken on regional adaptations and the changes to be implemented. With regard to the proposal for a national hospital plan, I want to be a little less bombastic: I think it has interesting elements in it. I also think that the scheme that we in this room can have discussions about structure and hospital needs is a good one, but I'm not sure that that's right or becomes more democratic because we're going to end up deciding here how many surgeons there are going to be in a hospital ward and that kind of question. In fact, I think that dense regional affiliation is a better solution, but this is a good opportunity for us to discuss. OECD figures point out that administrative expenditure in the Norwegian hospital system amounts to 0,8 pst. the cost of health care, while the average in the OECD is 3 pst. It concerns municipalities, health enterprises and central government. So we're not very bureaucratic, we're probably very easy in bureaucracy. I think that this solution is centralizing, and I think, unfortunately, it will be bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2138	Let me first thank the Council of State for constantly pointing out what is good in the Norwegian health care system, and not least the good many of those who work in the Norwegian health care system do. I think we should all be good at that. I also want to thank him for actually recognising that there are political differences and that he is involved in bringing them forward. That's what politics is all about, and I think that's what our voters out there are also asking for. Yes, we have a completely different health policy, and it is made visible not least in this case and also in the budget that has just been released. Without just pointing out what's going on, I would like – when we see the corridor problems, the problems in ICT, the old radiation equipment, the waiting list issues – to simply ask the Council of State if he feels it is he who runs the Norwegian health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2145	Yes, and I think the Prime Minister has expressed it very well in the discussion of responsibility. Yes, I have the political responsibility, and I am here to take it. But as I tend to say, patients should be happy that I'm not operating, because I don't have any assumptions for that. I also think the representative Olsen has experience that we have good people to operate in Norway. Therefore, responsibility in the Norwegian health care system has to be in many places. As Minister of Health, I have been concerned to say that I should support those who take responsibility in the great chain of responsibility that is all the way to the treatment of the patient. What I have to provide is that we have broad guidelines, guides, budgets and principles that enable the person who meets the patient to do the best possible job. That's what motivates me. I think we've had too much attention away from it. We need to pay attention to what I call middle managers: those who prepare for surgery, organize the operating room, those who make the emergency reception work -- all these places where we really take of quality. We need to focus on patient safety, waiting lists, etc., with demands and expectations from me. That's how I take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2152	All the five conditions in today's model that the Council of State took up in its statement and highlighted could have been solved even better within the Right Model. Nor is it right that what I said in the pulpit should indicate that the 310 who are currently working in regional health companies should be part of the Health Ministry's administration. On the contrary, I said that most of the resources were to be decentralised to the HFs. But the question will be related to the fact that we have now received a national audit report that is very clearly critical of the follow-up of the capital process by the Health South-East owner. My question to the Council of State is: How did Health South-East make a positive contribution in view of those who were set to carry out the merger at Oslo University Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2159	Let me just start by saying that if you want to decentralize the functions that today help to coordinate work between different health businesses, to health businesses, some people have to do the coordinating role. I think most of the 310 year works are needed in the management and organisation of the Norwegian health care system, whether you place them here or there. The history of health south-east and the work on the conversion is not written. The Riksrevision has pointed out some of the relationships that I take most seriously, but I must be told in this room that the Riksrevision is not the template of truth. The Ministry of Health and a number of actors have made assessments and observations in this process that point to aspects of the evaluation to which one might be critical. The responsibility for implementing and planning such a conversion lies with the HF. It was located at Oslo University Hospital's health company. It shall be supported by Health South-East and shall be monitored by the Ministry. We take note of that criticism. I've taken a lot of action in that regard, but I don't think, as I said, that there can be two lines in the history of how this has only worked out from the Riksrevision's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2168	Now it's not just the opposition parties that are talking about that we have a big bureaucracy in the health service, and the representative Lysbakken was in on it. To that I would first say that our bureaucracy is very good, we have great people working there, so it doesn't matter. It could be tempting to ask the Council of State if he agrees with the representative Lysbakken that we have too much bureaucracy in the health sector. He explained a little why. A few years ago, we had between 40 and 50 health companies — hospitals, as it was then called. We've reduced or combined a lot of them, so we're down to 23. This does not mean that we now have a much smaller lead voltage and many fewer organisational units to consider at least whether to change the structure of the health sector by, for example, the reduction of regional health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2175	To the last one, I'm saying that the model isn't the goal, it's the mean. I don't see it cut in stone. That's why I'm saying that I actually think the representative Höie says interesting things about a hospital plan, which I want to take on. We are open to adjust and learn along the way. I do not fully agree with the premise on the question. The fact that we have now gone down from 40 to 50 to 23 hospitals is not the end of the structural discussion in the healthcare system. Because, in fact, it may be more complex in a collaboration between specialised hospitals and decentralised health services — which can take things away from what we don't need to get to a hospital for. To make it work – with the municipalities, with the specialist health services – a coordinating force is needed, and I think it has to be regional. In the case of bureaucracy, I believe that the representative Lysbakken has put a very important focus on it, and I have followed up saying that the rules we don't need, we have to remove them. Double reporting that's looted, we need to get rid of, and we need to get better reporting routines. But rules have come for some reason, and therefore there is also reason to go through them critically and see if they do not actually serve their purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2184	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2200	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Knutsen, who is making his speech on behalf of Mr Breen, who is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2209	The welfare state's services are evolving steadily. A lot has happened in a short time. We have had municipal cooperation, transformations and innovations in hospitals and home care. Large parts of the service equipment work more together, across vocational training, place of employment and tasks. This has been necessary because we have had new disease conditions, where chronic and complex diseases such as COPD, diabetes, drugs and mental illness are increasing. Today, we have several patients with disorders that do not follow a prognostic, linear course, and that are characterised by conditions that need help from many disciplines at the same time. In this reality, technology is a necessary and good tool for providing correct and adapted help so that people with different levels of disability can function more independently, both in everyday life and in working life. This is one of the backbones of the good and very important work that is now being done by the government on welfare technology, and which is also the subject of this proposal for a representative. The Hagen Committee report Innovation in care from 2011 provides a good basis for the development of a modern and innovative healthcare service. The investigation has contributed to inspiration and to the fact that many more are now engaged in and curious about welfare technologies. That's good! This has created a greater willingness to think new and, not least, to do things in new ways, and that is precisely what we need in order to achieve the necessary change of care services, with greater emphasis on welfare technology and rehabilitation, and to get new instruments in municipal innovation work. We know that most people want to live in their own homes for as long as possible. Therefore, we need to use welfare technologies to provide services at home to people and improve the ability of users to master their own everyday life. But it's very important to remember that there are still people working with people. Personnel is the most important resource. The people present, who provide care and proximity, can never be replaced by technology. But technology can change and facilitate the work of those who work in the care professions, so that it contributes to a better quality service. And we have to listen to the users and patients. It is in the meeting between people, auxiliaries and users that care takes place. Therefore, their experience of the meeting becomes an important scale, even when we are going to introduce new methods and new technologies. Proper use of well-being technologies can give people new opportunities for independence and security and to cope as far as possible in their everyday lives. New types of welfare technologies, and in particular tracking and alerting technologies, raise some privacy issues. We have previously had a debate here in Stortinget on the use of GPS for demente, a technology that can contribute to greater freedom both for those affected, for the relatives and for the employees. To date, however, the law has put an end to the use of such technology. This is why it is good that the Ministry has now, at the hearing, sent a proposal to amend the law to allow the use of this kind of tracking technology in health and care services. Welfare technologies should be exploited for the benefit of users. Daily innovation — where individual employees or individual departments, e.g. in a nursing home, having a conscious relationship to improvement in the small area — making an important contribution to positive development. I look forward to the government now presenting several key messages relating to this topic: a growing awareness of the use of ICT in healthcare, a growing awareness of quality and patient safety, and, not least, the announced headline news that is about innovation in the healthcare sector and that comes in 2013. I am pleased that we have a government that shows action, and that has the will to seek new solutions and new ways of working. I also refer to the comments of the red-green parties and recommend that Document 8:102 S for 2011-2012 be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2226	The development of computer technology, information technology and welfare technologies has been at record speed in the last 20 years, and we can hardly know the extent and pace of development. The Progress Party has repeatedly called for us as a nation to take some force to bring Health-Norway up to a much better technological platform than the one we have today. Unfortunately, I see Norway as a bit of a slowdown in data communications in the healthcare system, where fax machines are still purchased to handle administrative procedures, and where we still experience that patient information needs to be printed and then registered manually into another health registry or computer system. This is time-consuming and resource-consuming, and it opens up multiple sources of error. It's a completely wrong use of resources and actually also a threat to patient safety – we've seen that several times. Similarly, we are somewhat lagging behind in the application of welfare technology, where the Progress Party believes Norway has a considerable untapped potential. Experience from other countries suggests that welfare technologies can help to provide users with greater security, greater social participation and greater mobility. The Committee itself has experienced this in Japan. In addition to providing users with greater autonomy and security, it can also contribute to the release of resources by employees in the care sector, so that they can be exploited in a much better way than at present. The latter is not least important: technology is streamlining, but not least it can contribute to good nurses and other health professionals being able to stand longer in work in the future. The challenge we want in the future, with the scarcity of human resources in relation to what we see, forces us to be far more offensive than the government has been so far. In its proposal, the Progress Party has referred to the initiative which, among other things: are done in Denmark, and we feel that it is urgent to put in place a strategy and a lift in Norway. The Progress Party is pleased that we have got a unanimous committee to clarify what we have been saying for a long time, namely that technology can never replace human contact and care, but it can – and should – be an important complement. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has already promoted its proposal as early as 18 April this year, and we wish that the Committee should take the time to deal with the matter in order to bring the whole of the Storting with us, if possible, on these proposals. Even though we have a majority government that will little be dictated by the Storting, we feel that our proposal has got something to happen, and we are very grateful for that. On 1 June this year, the Health Directorate launched a technical report on the implementation of welfare technology in municipal health and care services in 2013–2030. From the main conclusions, we can see, among other things: provision is made for a clearer regulation of the law for persons without consent, which was also the case in the previous speaker. There are several fundamental ethical principles that are challenged by the implementation of welfare technologies relating to self-determination and the private sphere and, in fact, the municipalities are also responsible for the proper functioning of services. We note that the directorate wants to include in Section 3 of the Health and Welfare Act the same legislative amendment as the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party discusses in its proposal No. 3, in respect of persons without consent who themselves do not oppose use. The Progress Party has been concerned with all the suggestions that have been made regarding search and death that could have been avoided if more had been used for tracing and locating aids. It is bad to think of the anxiety and despair this must have triggered, both for the individual and not least for all those who are close to him. The Progress Party notes that this is a matter which workers' party representatives from this Chamber once have the front in the media, but where one votes against when the possibility of implementation lies there, so there is unfortunately everything that it does. I take this up with me the proposals to which the Group of the European People's Party is associated and which have been referred in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2252	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2255	The right is in favour of the proposals made by the Progress Party and shares many of the considerations contained in the document. This is a policy area where there is a strong political consensus that much more needs to be done in Norway. Experience shows that welfare technology opens up new opportunities to provide people with a need for assistance or care for a more independent life. It will provide greater security in everyday life, greater freedom of choice and improved quality of life. The right has been a driver both at national level and in the municipalities for the use of welfare technology. At our 2011 national meeting, we adopted a number of proposals for a more offensive policy in this area. The municipality of Bærum has, among other things: have been a local authority and have developed a safety package for the elderly living at home with whom users are very satisfied. Most people want to stay in their own homes for as long as possible, even when the need for extra care and assistance is reported, and technological developments have provided many opportunities and solutions that could provide greater security for both individuals and relatives. We know that care tasks will double in a few years, and that there will be fewer health workers to do them. Caring is becoming more and more home-based, and we think away well, but at home best. Technology is currently available in addition to the safety alarm that can contribute to greater self-driving, safety and safety. Smarthouse technology can reduce fire hazards and sensors can detect movements and prevent falls. Computer screens can help incipient dents to remember important tasks. Simple symbols and well visible text show daily tasks and messages. For the individual struggling with memory, this is a tool that will provide a greater degree of self-respect and self-drivingness. Tracking solutions such as GPS could provide much greater safety and safety for both users and their family. A woman who experienced that her husband in the 1950s had Alzheimer's, said this: Before we could get the GPS equipment, I would lighten up after him day and night. Using GPS equipment, daily life and quality of life improved significantly for both of us. However, there are obvious ethical issues related to welfare technology, and it is therefore important to use time to assess the boundaries between safety and monitoring. The protection of privacy must be properly safeguarded. Cooperation with users, relatives, employees and authorities on these ethical issues must be central, and a key question is which values could be threatened by the use of care technologies and what values could be threatened by the absence of care technology. This issue I believe demonstrates that the need for ethical reflection is crucial for our ability to act in the best interests of the user. Care technology shall not replace human contact and care. It does not take care of the meeting between people, and care becomes unfaced and can never be a substitute for the relationship we are going to have with the weakest among us. It can create loneliness and alienation, but it can also dampen the experience of the same thing. Technology can be experienced as liberating, promoting mastering and independence, but also being offensive and controlling. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the ethical competence of professionals and politicians in order to deal with ethically challenging situations in a reflective and good way. Caring technologies in combination with human contact and care can be positive. But the Right clearly distances itself from a care technology used to enhance profitability and efficiency at the expense of human dignity and contact. The government has announced a big message to follow-up to the Hagen Committee, as several have mentioned, where the political perspectives of meeting the 2025 challenges will be discussed. The right considers that this, together with the preparation of a sub-plan under the care plan 2015, takes care of the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. As regards proposal No: 3, the Council of State has notified the launch of a legislative proposal for consultation as soon as possible in order to make use of tracking and tracing aids. We therefore choose to support the inclusion of the proposal in the Minutes, although, as I said, we are in favour of the proposals put forward by the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2281	The proposal is about expanding the use of welfare technologies in the health and care sectors. I understand that there is a great deal of political negotiation about this, and that experience from other countries suggests that Norway has a considerable untapped potential in this area. I have read with great interest the NOU report from the Hagen Committee on Innovation in Care and the measures they are proposing in this area as well, and I look forward to the warning message coming. That is also why we do not vote in favour of the proposals in this matter. I've been visiting the University of Bergen and looking at the technology lab that's there, about welfare technologies. That's very interesting. It's a lot of good projects going on. We were with the Research Council Committee, where we were informed that by saying that they were called several active and healthy years – that was one of the five priorities of the Research Council in 2013 – amounted to 140 million. kr to the welfare technology and innovation area. The funds shall be coordinated and shall increase the funding of the research already carried out. There has generally been little research activity in primary health services, and therefore I think the Research Council's bet in this area is very happy. We have major challenges in the health and care sector, with several older people in need of care and health care services, and at the same time we have what many call an alert manning crisis. At least there are good reasons for focusing on measures that make it easier for the elderly and the disabled to live longer and be able to cope with themselves. I tend to say that we will never be able to build ourselves out of the challenges within the care of the elderly that come over the next ten years. We need to prevent institutional needs and welfare technologies will be able to contribute here. New technological solutions, many of which have been involved, should not replace health professionals or relatives, but the most important thing about investing in new welfare technologies, as I see it, is to give users and relatives more security and more dignity in their everyday lives. Losing their functions, becoming dependent on their environment to cope with everyday life, for example. in the case of an emerging dementia or due to another disease, do first and foremost something with dignity and self-respect. Caring technology can help improve this – improve everyday life and strengthen dignity. Tracking technology has many applications. Obviously, it can mean a lot to all those with dementia who are in a so-called hiking period, and even relatives can get more peace that crazy things won't happen. It is good that a new bill has been sent that makes this easier. Finally, I would like to say even more about relatives, who will also benefit from welfare technology. Retired people make a lot of effort, especially for those with dementia. Studies show that relatives make so much effort that many of them become sick and extinct. Not least for those who are affected, welfare technologies will be able to do a new weekday. Ethical and legal issues that, quite rightly, this area has a part of, led me to be discussed in a very good way in the big message that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2298	When disease and dementia are affected, it is demanding for those affected, but also for those affected. A fundamental question is how to maintain dignity and independence. Well-being technology can contribute to this, even if the technology can never replace the related or the caring and skilled health professionals, who have been involved in this field in the past. But with some of the well-being technologies developed today, many people can live safer at home longer and take care of themselves more. That's what's the point, and that's very positive. Let me use dementia as an example of the possibilities technology can provide. The tools here may be help to turn off the stove or to turn off the coffee funnel – not to talk about what I have got in my new apartment, namely stoves and coffee extracts that turn off themselves – or sensors that can be triggered when you fall on the floor, and so that help can get much faster. Many of these are also GPS systems, which can tell where the individual is located. GPS can ensure that you will be found quickly if you do not find the way home yourself. To use myself as an example again: I never let my cell phone go. I have a GPS on it, and I'm sure I'll keep going. The point is that we gradually view this as natural. More freedom and autonomy will also give more dignity and the ability to determine your own life. The open-air organisation’s slogan to say from where you are going can easily be reworded to: Bring your mobile phone with you when you leave! We should not underestimate, as many people have pointed out, that welfare technology can to some extent be ethically objectionable. Therefore, like others who have spoken here, the Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to focus on the ethical challenges that welfare technology can give. Technology will never replace human care and physical proximity, but it will provide more security for those who need it. It may also help to reduce the pressure on care places, by allowing you to stay longer at home, with some help. Perhaps we will also be able to improve the recruitment of care professionals by increasing the status and competence. In any case, welfare technology will help to facilitate the day of work for caregivers. This is also how we are preserved in the workplace. We have examples that several times a year the police have resource-intensive search operations that might have been unnecessary or easier if the dement that had been lost had a GPS. Finally, help to self-help technology is the most important thing for many different groups, and not least for relatives in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2317	This is a debate we're going to get more and more in the years to come, I hope. Too often, the only thing that dominates the discussions about care is how many institutional places we build. It's an important question, we need more of them, but at the same time we know that the elderly, who are becoming more and more, will have one wish in the future first – to be able to live at home as far as possible. That's why I think it's affordable and good that across the boundaries there's attention to the need to invest in welfare and care technology. I had an inspiring experience in a laboratory that the University of Bergen has, where different examples of the technology that has already been developed and can be used can be demonstrated. There are already great opportunities there, as it is a political responsibility to ensure that care is used, so that it can improve our care services. At the same time, it is also a political responsibility to contribute to the development of technologies that can provide more opportunities in the future. Sometimes there are no extremely complex solutions to be found. I had an interesting visit to home disease in Kristiansund earlier this year. There they had by a very simple grip, namely the distribution of tablets to all home nurses, managed to transform what had been a very rigid way of organizing their working day, where they still had to go back to what was the center of their work and input various messages to doctors and others. Now they could do it while they were on the way. In this way, they achieved the two things that must be the goal of increasing the use of care technologies and welfare technologies: more time and more security. It's a great potential for both. That is why I agree with the representative Davøy, who stresses that technology does not replace human care and proximity, but in some cases can actually give more of it if we use it correctly. The government has a high level of consciousness in this field. It is announced that this will become an important theme in the future. We're very satisfied with that from SV. We are pleased to receive both increased attention and, not least, increased use of the technological possibilities we have in our care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2330	I feel this is a little bit like listening to warm-up bands, those who play before the big concert. This has been a very good warm-up band for the big message that the government is planning to make to spring. It's interesting to note how consistent we are in this room about the use of technology that should not be alienating, but for people, for people and for human benefit. I find reason again to commend the Hagen committee and the work they did in the NOU. It's a very important document, I feel, at this great time, with external recordings, from creative and insightful people who put us on the trail of a good and modern future care for the elderly. In a recent debate, the question came up: Is it right to go away from the word «parent care» as the striking term? What we see in the population is that everyone who needs care should have care, regardless of age. Some of the groups we discussed earlier today are not typically older, while the elderly as a group are as diverse as all the other groups in our society. They need services that can make it possible to live a diverse and varied life. Safe old age is a very important dimension in it. The NOU from the Hagen Committee has been at the hearing. In the consultation, the perspectives and proposals have been widely welcomed. It also confirms the debate here today. In some areas, however, there is considerable impatience. I think that's positive. In particular, the issue of the conversion of care services, with greater emphasis on welfare technology and rehabilitation, and the need for new instruments in municipal innovation. Therefore, the Ministry of Health asked the Directorate to develop a professional basis and a practical framework for the implementation of welfare technology. This report I think many know. It came in June. The care sector, like most other sectors, needs to benefit from and improve the quality of its services through the use of technology. The sector is low in technology, and it is low in research. We should do something with both of them. Surveys show, as has been said, that many people want to stay at home for as long as possible, even when care services are needed. The development of welfare technology in the future could create better conditions for developing home-based services and make users more independent from the auxiliaries. The staff is and will be the main resource in the care service. We have also talked about that in the Chamber today. Almost all studies consist of human efforts. Technology will never replace human care and physical proximity, but can contribute to the release of resources, as pointed out by more. It can also help to give people new opportunities for independence and security and to cope on their own. The use of tracking and warning technologies, many of which have been involved, raises a number of ethical and privacy issues. We can solve them. We can have a value base for that to find wise solutions. Developments in tracking technologies, e.g. with the help of GPS, which is mentioned by several, people who are not so easily able to orient themselves out can move more freely. It means security, and it's also important for the individual's safety. Therefore, in early October, the Ministry, at the hearing, sent a proposal for amendments to the Patient and User Rights Act, proposing a legal framework to allow healthcare to take decisions on the use of alert and localisation technologies in healthcare services, to qualified patients and users lacking consent. I am concerned that we should be able to exploit welfare technology for the benefit of people. However, welfare technologies alone cannot provide the basis for sustainable and modern care services. Technology must interact with municipal service innovation, industrial development, assistive technology, research and housing policy. If we succeed here, we can come up with new products and services that may be interesting for our business, even though some people think our starting point is a little behind others. I feel that there is a cross-political consensus here on the Stortinget and in the government that welfare technology offers great opportunities for increased quality of life and improved resource use. We will follow up the NoU with our own big message, which will draw up perspectives and develop a policy of new solutions for the care field up to 2025, that is, the period when we will mark the major demographic challenges, with far more elderly people in need of help. This Communication shall provide the basis for renewal through municipal innovation and development work in the field of care. It shall discuss options and solutions for future care challenges, focusing on technologies, housing, ownership and operational forms, research and development. Welfare technology will thus be a central theme of the big business message. And after the heating here, I look forward to sending this message to Stortinget and waiting for a good treatment and discussion about it in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2353	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2357	It's not easy to predict the future, but we can try to relate to what we know. We know that there are many more older people in society, and we know that we will have more chronicles with complex disorders and people with disabilities who need public assistance. If we continue to provide services to the elderly and others with assistance needs based on old solutions, there will be a shortage of resources. It is now high time to put away concerns about the ageing of the population, and instead to make use of the opportunities that already exist. I'm talking about welfare technology that will give people more dignity and a more independent and safer everyday life. Most people want to live in their own homes and have the freedom to be active and self-held, which is more likely if technological assistance and aids are used. GPS technology can give older people greater freedom and motivation for safe physical activity. Other examples are smarthouse technology, which I saw during a study visit in Scotland four years ago. There are body-borne sensors, and there are now developed nightdresses with airbags that dampen impact upon fall. There are also developed floor coverings, and tests show that you can drop eggs without crushing them, in other words, the damping coating that prevents fractures. At Nokia, Finland, I saw a gelding pad that can be put on my arm, which can send information to a doctor or to communication units between housing and security centres to follow the disease development. It gives you confidence. The interest in welfare technology is growing, but when it comes to action, not so much has happened in recent years that one should be able to expect a country with the opportunities we have. Most municipalities have failed to understand the possibilities of using welfare technologies in the care services. They actually lack an overview of what exists, and there's a lot of uncertainty about what they're going to bet on. Then it's safest to go on with old, familiar solutions. In other words, too little happens. This may mean that there is a need for more state-wide and comprehensive implementation of new solutions, not least in the interests of users. New technologies can change the services offered, and their organisation, but so important is that it will change the everyday life of all those who are given the opportunity to have a safer and more independent everyday life. Welfare services need to be developed in such a way as to ensure that they are as self-reliant as possible, combined with good health care assistance. The social and psychological part of the services must be properly provided. The services of the future cannot be based on the solutions of the past. Jump on the train, it doesn't hold any more papers and investigations. The train has already left the platform – now is the time for action!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2372	Welfare technology is important and necessary to cover future care. There are very many countries that have come much further than Norway in this area. That's why it's important that we start speeding up, and that we take initiatives from the state. It is important to take initiatives from a central point of view, for example: because we have very many small municipalities, 429 municipalities, which have different commitments to use welfare technology on their own. Therefore, it is important that you get guidance and information from government actors, so that you can implement it as quickly as possible. Of course, this is important in order to provide caregivers with a better everyday life. I'm recording that more people are very happy. The representative, Audun Lyssbakken, was very pleased that this was going to be a bet area in the future. One refers to this crash message, which we have been waiting a long time. I thought it was a good idea for a big message to be notified, but the government now has a seat for over seven years. We should be able to expect that this would have happened more than what has actually happened. Now it's time for action. The Minister of Health said this was a good warm-up band. That means we're still waiting for the headband. As I said, we've been waiting seven years for this headband, or something's going to happen in this area. The progress party thinks it's enough talking, now there's enough messages. Now we have to take action in this area. That is why we have three specific proposals. I note that there are several people who express that one agrees with the proposals, but one does not want to vote for them. I think it's a good rule that one vote for what one is for, and then it agrees with what one is against. At least that's what the Progress Party has as its starting point. I record that others don't have it as a starting point. I thought it was positive, of course, that one has sent a bill to listen. But if you agree that one should be able to put tracking technology into practice, as the Progress Party has suggested, I think that one should express it by voting in favour of the proposal. The introduction of widespread use of tracking technologies will provide better and safer everyday life for many who unfortunately cannot take care of themselves. This would result in an uninvited person being exposed to danger.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2387	I note that the Committee sees the importance of introducing welfare technology and that they are positive in their comments on the matter. All parties are also satisfied with the fact that the Minister of Health and Health has set up the Directorate to draw up a technical basis for a new sub-plan under the Care Plan 2015, which is based on technology. This is absolutely necessary. Ideally, this work should have been started a long time ago. In a few years, there will be signs that there will be more elderly people and people in need of care. The current way of operating the health sector is therefore not sustainable for the future. If we are to follow up on working in the same way in the health sector as we do today, every fourth youth aged 20-25 must choose to work in the health and social sector in 2025, i.e. in just 13 years – and they will probably not. When we get to 2035, each third has to choose to work in health. With this in mind, it is becoming increasingly important to use welfare technologies in the health sector. We only need to recognise that welfare technology is too little used in Norway. Experience in several other countries suggests that Norway has considerable untapped potential in this area. Some pilot projects are being worked on – and tested – around, but the policy design in the field has been marked by the development of the road. In the educational field, Norway has long been behind the other Nordic countries. IN NOW 2011: 11, Innovation in care, it is clear that welfare technology needs to be developed as a subject. The Progress Party will underline the importance of changing and implementing the tasks with new tools and new ways of implementing them, making changes in training both for new health workers and, in particular, for those already in the sector. If this is not followed up, there is a risk that there will be little or no benefit from investing in welfare technology. KS has seen the importance of this and says that they will work to ensure that training in the use of electronic tools becomes a natural part of training for health and care professionals. The Progress Party believes that the introduction of welfare technology will ensure freedom of choice and dignity in care. Although the government parties do not support the proposals today, the Progress Party expects an overall issue of welfare technology in the health sector to be given a high priority, while at the same time taking the necessary action in the field of health education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2402	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2416	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2425	It is important that we have enough and professionally good qualifiers and other doctors in the primary health service. This is essential for providing good and adapted health services to the population, no matter where you live in the country. Not least in the years to come, there will be a need for doctors with good competence in general medicine, who can also provide good health care to an increasingly older population. The challenges addressed in the draft representative we are discussing here are quite well in line with the analyses of the need for medical services on which the cooperation reform is based. The reform describes the actions to contribute to a better and more robust municipal health and care service. Many measures have already been taken by the government to strengthen the permanent scheme, including a grant scheme for municipalities of 100 million. NOK 2013, for increased recruitment in the general medical service – i.e. one of the points addressed by this Document 8. This is important in order to increase the recruitment of doctors for community health services. Other important measures are linked to the new regulatory framework, which enters into force on 1 January 2013. It has, among other things, the objective of ensuring equivalent general medical care throughout the country and clarifying that the fixed medical system is to be an important part of municipal health care. Interactions between doctors and other primary health care actors in relation to patients are underlined in the regulation. Other important elements to strengthen primary health services are more and better research into general medical services, better ICT solutions, more prevention and better accessibility. Greater responsibility for carrying out home visits, where necessary, also belongs to the obligations of decision-makers under the revised regulation. Overall, this is a good measure to strengthen primary health services. In the years that will come, it will be important to have a good ICT structure throughout the healthcare system, including in the primary health service. This government has taken seriously the challenges we are facing in this field, and in these days is presenting a big message about ICT and eHealth. However, there are already good projects in the field of ICT, fully or partially funded by state resources. Here I would like to mention in particular the FUNNKe project in the North Region, under the auspices of the National Centre for Interaction and Telemedicine – a project with the ambition to implement a full-scale implementation of electronic message exchange between the care and care sectors, health and health care centres/firms throughout North Norway. FUNKe shall assist the municipalities with a coordinated connection with Norsk Health Network, the setting up and operation of communication solutions and the use of electronic message exchange. The project is well underway and will include 15 co-operation municipalities in all three Nordic states in the current year – and more will follow in the coming years. Municipalities may apply specifically for grants to get started. So a little bit about medics. The government has addressed the challenges that the medical officer has faced and has put in place work to address both content and organisation. We have a proper medical service in Norway, but we need to look at how it can be improved. It will also be up to each municipality in the future to decide how best to organise the service. In many parts of the country, better medical care services have been provided by municipalities working together — elsewhere, distances, number of people in the municipality and access to professionals are the best way to have your own medical care in the municipality. Both the new regulation and current practice open up the possibility for doctors of 55 years of age to be released — and most who ask for it. So the new regulation does not add up to a practice that is significantly different from what is happening today. It is therefore unlikely that things will change significantly after I. January. However, many 55-year-olds will actually continue to have medical services, and municipalities should facilitate conditions so that more people in this group can have medical services. In particular, this will be important in municipalities and regions where a majority of doctors in this particular age group are present. One hundred million. In addition, kr in the 2013 budget will clearly contribute to recruiting more permanent doctors, which means that there will be more people who can have medical services. I also refer to the comments of the red-green parties and recommend that document 8:108 S be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2446	One of the reasons why the fixed reform, introduced in 2001, was a success, was that it all happened in good dialogue between the parties. When the government presented its proposal for revised regulations before Christmas last year, the dialogue trail was abandoned. The proposal was more marked by a pure demonstration of power by the government, where decision-makers would be imposed on a number of demands which could in practice be impossible to meet. One might wonder about this approach on the part of the government, but a nearby reason might be to see this in the light of the general attitude shown by the government to private actors in the Norwegian health system. As you know, the decision-makers are mainly self-employed with an agreement with the public. The government's proposal created, of course, almost a rebellion among the decrees, and the government was probably really pushed back into the dialogue track, which led to the Medical Association gradually accepting the new regulation to come into force from 1 January next year. The government’s handling of this matter is a school example of how it works when one does not want to interact. It leads me to the precisely cooperation reform, where the determination is intended to play the role of the hub of the whole reform. It is therefore important to facilitate the recruitment and maintenance of medical professional competence for the fixed medical tasks. The representative proposal we are examining today contains a number of important measures that need to be put in place to strengthen and improve fixed-term care and to ensure the quality of essential elements of primary health care. The medical services at Norwegian nursing homes are far too poor. Patients are medicated without prior proper diagnosis and with a lack of medical supervision due to low medical coverage. Although the government's goal of medical coverage in hospitals is only half of the target the Progress Party has proposed, the government has problems achieving its own goal, which affects patients. The Progress Party believes that the government's passive approach jeopardizes the Interaction Reform and that the lack of capacity of the permanent staff leads to problems in ensuring the quality of the healthcare system as a whole. ICT is also a key factor here. A national commitment is needed to bring the health sector up to a satisfactory platform, in order to exchange the necessary health data across management levels and between different actors in the multidisciplinary health environments, so that patients are given the best possible treatment in the right place and in a timely manner, while ensuring adequate protection of privacy. Today, there are too many different solutions in the healthcare system, and we believe that the state needs to put funds at the disposal of all the different actors on a common platform. That is why we are promoting a proposal in the State budget to set up a 10-bn ICT fund. kr. We believe, as I said, that the approach of the government is too passive, and I am therefore promoting the proposal of the Progress Party No. 18 and the proposals in the case where the Progress Party is part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2463	The representative then addressed the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2466	There is a cross-political consensus that a greater part of the health challenges will be addressed in the primary health service in the future. It is also one of the important premises of the cooperation reform. It requires that we have a primary health service that is equipped, in terms of both competence and the number of people working there, to deal with those challenges. This proposal seeks to address some of it. The proposal has also, as a hindrance, that the government had sent to the hearing a draft new regulation that, in our opinion, would not improve the situation, but on the contrary, the situation worsened. Fortunately, a change has been made that is much more in line with the recommendations received from the Health Directorate – which one had initially seen past – and also with the feedback received from the Medical Association and the KS. However, having revised the regulation will not mean that the current regulation will solve the challenges facing you. In the case of permanent doctors, one is in the situation that one in three is over 55 years of age. We know that this is a profession that often wants, and has the economy, to retire early. This means that we are facing a formidable recruitment challenge when this is seen in the context of increasing tasks. Therefore, there is a need to address this with different strategies. It is not possible to go through all the proposals addressed by the Right and the other opposition parties, but one can see that the proposals meet three main challenges. The first is the question of recruitment: making the permanent profession more attractive, making it professionally challenging and exciting – in the form of modern ICT solutions, but also by making more research in, and not just in, primary health services – and also raising the demands for permanent employment. Therefore, we believe it would be right to demand that those who will be appointed in the future be included in a specialisation in general medicine. It will increase the interest in working as a regular — it will increase the attractiveness of it — and, above all, it will increase the quality of patients. This will also bring some other benefits, such as the participation of everyone in small groups that provide opportunities, for example. to improve common entry practices — as one example — or health notification, as another example. Then it is necessary to see that the decision-making body needs more colleagues – not only colleagues who are doctors, but also colleagues who have different health skills, for example. psychologists and nurses. There is, of course, a clear way forward — everyone can organise this as they like locally — but there are some system barriers, especially linked to the reimbursement schemes. It is a great paradox that if one as a patient is so sick that one has to get outpatient services in a hospital, the hospital is refunded if one meets a specialist nurse, but is a little fresher, so that one can go to his local firm office and meet a nurse there, get a no refund before one has seen the doctor in his eyes – totally illogical. Quite small changes in that area, I think, would set in motion a fantastic positive development to get a permanent office where one also has other health professionals who would solve many of people's everyday health problems in a good way, without necessarily having to see the doctor. Determined I have been in contact with, even claims that as much as 30-40 pst. Of what they do in a day, a nurse might as well have done. It also shows the experience of Denmark, where one had national targets for the development of how many decision-makers one needed. After one opened up to employ the nurses' skills, one saw that there was no need for so many. The doctors and the municipalities agreed that one would solve several tasks by using others. I hope that the Minister of Health and the Government will include some of the ideas promoted in this proposal. There is a need for quality development in this area, not least in relation to the medical care system, which we also address. It is part of the service that has not received the attention it needs to increase its quality. I take up the suggestions that the Right is involved in promoting the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2489	At that time, the proposals which have not been taken up in the past should have been taken up, in line with the representative himself mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2492	I very much agree with the challenge picture that Right draws up in its proposals – that recruitment, organisation and quality improvement are important factors in creating a better medical service in municipalities. With the Interaction Reform, we took the big step of getting a necessary bet on the municipal health service. The growth shall be varied from the specialist services to the municipal health services. We have recognised that many patients are being treated at an too high level, and that the local health service can treat more people with better results. With the Interaction Reform, there was also an intention that parishes should be able to reach groups of patients who did not visit the health services themselves, and in particular this applies to older people and patients with drug problems and mental disorders, among others. I note that studies after the introduction of the fixed reform show that small municipalities can actually do this better than the very largest. A goal of the Interaction Reform is to reduce unnecessary hospitalisation. Here is the doctor in general, and the doctor in particular, a key person – they are the door opener for the specialist services. The reference practice sees us as very different. The commitment to increased competence in the general medical services and in the medical care system is fundamental to making the cooperation reform work on the basis of the intention. That so much of the league in the general medical service is over 55 years old is worrying. I think one of three firmers, according to the Health Directorate, is over 55 years old. I understand Right's suggestion to remove this point in the medical code, but I don't think the solution is that simple – it's more complex. The main problem is that the recruitment process is too weak. We need to make it more attractive to run a medical watch. Many of the requests may wait until the next day. I think there's a lot of work that you can do locally to reduce the load. Running night work after the usual working day and going to work the next day is hard both mentally and physically, so forcing people to do something that doesn't necessarily produce quality. I also agree with Right that if we're going to be better off getting enough leagues in primary care, we have to get the newly-educated leagues to go in. Today, we know that students are more used to specialist services. This is where they study — at university clinics — and receive practical courses in the community health service. In our opinion, the Stortinget adopted a major communication on education for welfare services, which addressed this very fact, and the educational practices for many health professionals, not just for lizards, are now to be directed towards the community health service, where the growth is to take place. We also need to make it safer for newcomers to make their choices. I agree with what is being described, that in today's system there is a completely different economic and professional security and security associated with specialisation in the specialist services than in the municipal health service. I would also like to point out that there are some areas in particular before the municipal health service that it is important to strengthen, and that relates to hospitals. It has been a strengthening, but it has to be even bigger. We have to make it attractive for gypsies to become unhealthy. Then I would like to mention that it is seen as a condition that work in hospitals is considered a specialisation. There are many different proposals in this proposal for a representative, and the intention is good. I refer to the letters of the Council of State, and we take this into account in the further work, but many of the measures are already well under way, for example. strengthening the system of fixed medical devices in the budget of the year. The review of emergency medical prescriptions with a view to strengthening the medical care system is warned, and it is intended that there should be a requirement for a rear guard where a doctor has been on his own. So I want to show you an interpellation we had before today about mental health, where someone said it's not always the psychologist that's the answer, it could be the doctor. In this case, it's the other way around – it's not always the doctor who's the answer, it can be the psychologist. So it's good that the Stortinget focuses on the legacies and recruitment, but I'm, to be honest, much more concerned about another profession in health care – the health professionals. There is a big shortage – we are missing between 30,000 and 50,000, and unlike the Legs, young people are not applying for the profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2515	In the context of the Cooperation Reform, the role of the Decision is changing. Not only is the prescriber often the sick person’s first meeting with healthcare, but he or she also plays an important role both in self-treatment and in supervising the treatment of specialist healthcare. Central to the Interaction Reform is prevention, which we have been through several times before today. This will also be an important task for decision-makers. After all, we are not least getting more and more older among the population here in the country, and this will make even greater demands on the decision-makers than in the past. At the same time, however, we need to think interdisciplinaryly about prevention. Other health professionals are also important, and good cooperation with fixed doctors is essential. I'm thinking, for example. to diabetic nurses, psychologists, ergot therapists and physiotherapists, to mention some, which are essential for patients in the risk zone, or for that part of an early stage and follow-up phase of a disease. Quality of the first line service is important. The system of practical consultants, to mention one of the proposals here, which determines hospital accommodation, can contribute to better communication and cooperation between the permanent and specialist health services. It will also be an arena for practical learning, giving the decision-makers a valuable break from their usual clinical practice. The Policy Consultant Scheme could prove useful in the context of the Interaction Reform. A regular doctor does not have the same professional environment around him as the hospital doctors. That's why we think it can be valuable with mandatory colleagues, not only the first time you're going to be a specialist in general medicine, but maybe later. Professional and personal reflection can be useful for all fixed doctors. The Christian People's Party supports most of the proposals from the Right in this matter. In fact, we believe that the proposals will help to improve the public's regularity and community health service in our future country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2528	Let me start by saying that the challenge picture that the Right draws up in its proposal is completely consistent with that of the government. We have a good health service in the municipalities. Nevertheless, we have challenges, and I agree with the proposers when they say that these can be summarised under the headings of recruitment, organisation and quality improvement. I feel that all the speakers have stressed it in articles here today. The government wants the decision-makers to be more closely integrated into the municipal health and care services. It is true that the representative, Mr Davøy, says: the reform of cooperation changes the role. But really, they're strengthening it because, as the representative says, they're often the first meeting of health services. There is a need to strengthen general medical competence in the development of healthcare systems. It is also an objective that several of the prescribers are specialists in general medicine. This is a challenge that the representative, Mr Höie, also pointed out. The statutory regulation is one of several instruments to strengthen the fixed medical system. In response to Höie, I would say: No, the regulation alone will not solve this challenge, but the regulation is an important contribution to achieving the objectives of the cooperation reform. We need to consider further legal, educational, financial and other instruments. Perhaps we should have different pilots trying out schemes that can stimulate the development we want. But no matter how we do it, it will require resources in the years to come. The government and the right, and I think many in this room, are also fully in line with the need for more decision-makers, measures to increase multidisciplinaryness, teamwork and better use of the competences of other health professionals, more and better research on general medical services and better ICT solutions. On the right, many measures that appear to be good in isolation are proposed, but the proposal lacks a discussion of the overall impact of the many measures, as well as a prioritisation of what is most important first. But I interpret it in the best sense and include it in our further work on this matter. Interaction reform is a policy reform. We have put in place several instruments and measures to help progress in the right direction. Before Christmas we put forward two big messages. Tomorrow there will be one on ICT in the health sector, and one week later on quality and patient safety. Both are important to clarify the content of the reform. In the spring, we come up with two new messages that we have mentioned earlier today: one on innovation in care and one on cross-sectoral public health work. We are further working to further develop general medical care — both the fixed medical system and the medical watch. We've strengthened the system by 50 million. kr in 2012 by a recruitment grant, and we strengthen it by an additional 50 million. kr for increased activity and recruitment in 2013. We are also building up immediate help-daily services in the municipalities. It is part of the Cooperation Reform that will be in place in all municipalities from 1 January 2016. Many municipalities are already running, and it has to transfer 1 billion. SEK from hospitals to municipalities over four years, from 2012 to 2016. The instruments of the reform shall contribute to the better use of resources and competences in municipalities. Local authorities have increased freedom to organise services according to local needs. This, I believe, has been a red thread in the debate this afternoon – local needs must be important, as well as the profession and profession that best solves the challenge. It has not been given that it is the person who has normally done it, who is best prepared to do it further. Both the Professional Neutral Health and Care Services Act and the Cross-sectoral Public Health Act facilitate this. Local authorities have been given greater responsibility for the overallity of the offer through co-financing responsibilities. It shall stimulate more prevention and development of own services so as to reduce the need for hospitalisation. The overall responsibilities of municipalities are made clear in the revised regulations that enter into force from the New Year. There are in particular two challenges related to future skills needs. First, that we need more and more competence in the service of municipalities because a greater share of the services are to be provided there, in the municipalities, near where we live. Secondly, we need to develop new models for the organisation of municipal health and care services in order to improve quality and more cost-effective services. Almost all research, treatment, rehabilitation and care in municipalities requires human effort. Therefore, the personnel are the basic resource. If we're to succeed, we need to get a bigger part of multidisciplinary cooperation, especially in connection with the follow-up of chroniclers in the municipalities. Local authorities must ensure that decision-makers have more professional groups to cooperate with, and the Ministry will investigate how municipalities can be further supported by ensuring interdisciplinary staff. In the 2013 draft budget, we have proposed a substantial strengthening of the efforts of several psychologists. Several psychologists in municipalities will be essential to prevent mental illness and to strengthen the follow-up to mental illness. Nursing will be a central group, both in the follow-up of chroniclers, such as patients with diabetes and COPD, related to patient training and other prevention activities. In developing models for a better multidisciplinary and integrated municipal health and care service, it is useful to learn from other countries that have experience and research on such work. We need to find a way that fits our challenges and our system. Above all, it is important that we in our reformer do not tear down what works well today, but try to seek the best solutions with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2556	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2560	The new regulations allow doctors over 55 years of age to reserve their right to participate in the medical care system. In the light of recent media disclosures regarding medical care, how will the Council of State ensure that the quality of Norwegian medical services can be maintained after New Year's, when a number of the most experienced doctors are given the opportunity to reserve themselves against the medical officer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2565	It has to be done along several lines. It's a municipal responsibility to organize the medic, but I focus on what we can call prehospital services. It's very important terms in the overall health care system. So we're working on a regulation on the staffing and competence of this service, and we're going to come back to that after having good dialogue with the groups involved in the new year. When it comes to 55 years, I notice that it's part of the regulation. I don't want to underestimate that I think it's a little special part of the regulation, in the light of the population and the willingness to work. I think we will experience that there are some doctors who choose to leave at retirement age, but there are also many who continue to work. Now it's not this retirement age, but it's just targeting the medical care system. These are questions we need to have a dialogue with the Medical Association and the decision-makers about. However, we need to adopt an overall approach to ensure that this municipal offer is equipped both with expertise and with the necessary personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2572	In view of the fact that this Regulation has not yet entered into force, it is still possible to make changes. When you look at the challenge of the medical care system – not least with the need for many with a long experience of medical care, lack of doctors who are willing, and we know that there is a strain – I think when you get the opportunity to retire at 55 years, many will take advantage of that opportunity. You might think that this is a reasonable rule at a time when you have a very good access. Will the Minister of Health consider holding back that part of the regulation until he has assured himself that he is able to do so in other ways, or will put the medical officer in this situation from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2579	The law doesn't stand and fall on exactly this. There's nothing that's going to happen, I think, from the first day of 2013, so I don't think I'm going to propose changes in the 30 days that remain until 1 January. I believe that this phenomenon illustrates the importance of experience and competence in medical care. Experience shows that with the medical officers who have experienced doctors, there are fewer admissions, not because the condition is less serious, but because a doctor can make a wise choice. If there's less competence, you better go to insertions, and then there'll really be complications for everyone if that's not necessary. This is a topic we need to focus on. I don't ignore the fact that we can get into a situation where we'll evaluate this as part of the whole that's about access to the general general public in primary health care, but especially towards medical care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2586	In the context of the 2009 interaction reform, when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presented it, he suggested a need for 2,000 new permanentators in order to implement the reform in a good way. Do we reach this goal within a reasonable time? With the measures taken by the government: Is there hope that we will succeed? That's the one. The second is, the Council of State was concerned with this with professional neutrality in its articles. The government also said that if necessary, regulations will be laid down in relation to the requirement of professional qualifications. There were many who protested that this was not a wise way to go. My question is whether the government assesses whether it is necessary, whether you have thought about whether you might want to come up with regulations. The council itself stated that with new groups there is a great need for it in all our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2593	When it comes to professional neutrality, I don't want to conclude with anything but saying that we're following that question very carefully. I think we have to do that by collecting information and analysing it from the municipalities to see what the picture is. I think that's right for something that's about to find its function. I don't have the number of permanents on the stand today. I think it was a rough hit by the Hanssen State Council at the time. I notice with interest that there is a large application for the medical study. I think that about now those who learn abroad pass those who learn at home, so the capacity is great. I believe that when it comes to doctors per resident in Norway, we are about to take a rather high place, if I am not mistaken. The challenge here is general medical practice and specialisation in general medicine. That's what I notice when I visit the firm offices, both my own and those of others, that it's a challenge. I'm just warning you here today that we have attention to it and take it seriously. It's a big challenge for our health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2606	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2670	During the debate, the representative Trine Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case on ratification of the Additional Protocol on the Law of the Individuals to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child by the spring of 2013.’» The voting boards showed that 83 votes were cast against and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.45.20]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2682	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2687	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2703	The left has notified that they subsidiaryly support the committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2734	During the debate, the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to start work on the introduction of sound and video recording in the courts and to present its own case on its implementation and financing.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2747	The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2946	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2956	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 7, 8 and 9 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2966	During the debate Per Arne Olsen has put forward four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 3. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to the Storting to close regional health businesses.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals so that users of healthcare are given the right to free choice between approved non-profit, private and public health services where appropriate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e2990	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 4. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national hospital plan as part of the national health and care plan.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendment to the Health Companies Act clarifying that the purpose of obtaining confidentiality-related information for internal audit purposes is to be clarified.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3422	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3432	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3501	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3511	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3519	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 11 by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–16, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review all health business management procedures in order to ensure that the organisation and governance promote quality and patient safety at all stages, and to present this to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to be made to assess a new funding key to promote increased patient care in the specialist healthcare service.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary and effective instrument to reduce waiting lists by a minimum of 25000 patients per year, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2013.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the introduction of its own annual hospital proposal in the context of the revised national budget for 2013.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the practices of health businesses that have resulted in a fear culture among health professionals, which in turn poses an increased risk of adverse events not being detected or increasing the risk to patients, cease.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3564	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to establish procedures to follow up health businesses in conversion processes that provide patients with safety and efficient use of resources during the process’.» The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3581	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy for the red tape of specialist health services and the closure of regional health enterprises, and to present it in the context of the revised national budget for 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3596	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and No 3-10, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that an external evaluation is carried out of the management of the waiting lists and of the use of the DRG system in order to ensure its own economy.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital is carried out at a pace that does not increase the risk to patients’.» [[OUT]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a proposal for a new plan for equipment investment in Norwegian hospitals.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the Norwegian patient compensation scheme in order to improve patients’ rights and conditions.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation and to put in place the necessary measures to ensure rapid and good treatment for stroke patients throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and submit a plan for strengthening the capacity and quality of the rehabilitation service.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up and submit a plan for better cancer care.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Norwegian patients have faster access to new innovative medicines.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy to ensure more experiential treatment in the specialist health service, as well as to provide more medical research and development.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3673	In the course of the debate, Mr Olsen put forward the proposals. 1-3 on behalf of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the necessary legislative amendments as soon as possible in order to be able to make rapid use of tracing and locating aids for patients with acquired mental failure, who themselves do not oppose this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3694	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prepare and propose a comprehensive strategy for the wider use of welfare technology as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up an ethics and legal committee to address ethical and legal issues related to the wider use of welfare technology and to present the outcome to the Stortinget.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3723	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-11, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 12–16, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 18 by Mr Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 17, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make compulsory the participation of all shareholders in groups with permanent employees in their own and, where appropriate, neighbouring municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3753	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to amend the system of reimbursement for the fixed medical scheme in such a way that it is based on actual consultations, treatments and preventive work.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3768	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–16, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to develop a quality indicator and reporting system, including user experience, for quality development in the firm’s services.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary changes to legislation and financial instruments to facilitate more use of health professionals other than doctors in and affiliated to the permanent medical services, including the reimbursement system, in order to make it more attractive to use nurses, psychologists and midwives in connection with the work of the permanent agency.’; Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish the provision of general psychologists in municipalities through changes in legislation, the establishment of a plan for development and changes in financial instruments. The financial instruments should facilitate co-location with the local authorities.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the reimbursement system of the fixed medical scheme with a view to proposing amendments to make the system more conducive to the achievement of health policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the provision in a new statutory regulation that allows doctors over 55 years of age to reserve themselves from medical care.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3812	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-11, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to identify needs and to submit a stepping-up plan for medical coverage in the primary health service in general and the fixed medical scheme in particular.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for models of how municipalities can and should be stimulated to create more educational positions in general medical specialisation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures that can make it more attractive to set up medical services dedicated to nursing homes and contribute to their recruitment.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests that all new permanent doctors be – or train to become – specialists in general medicine.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of general medical research, including the use of incentives, funding and professional organisation. The financing should facilitate cooperation between the municipalities, the permanent doctors, the GMP centre of competence and the universities/high schools.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to identify the need and possibilities for strengthening the primary health service and the fixed medical system through the training and use of clinical expert nurses.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to strengthen the local cooperation committees as an arena for cooperation, interaction and dialogue between local authorities and municipalities.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to further develop the system of practical consultants, to help establish them in several places and to be evaluated.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a status report in the 2013 revised national budget on the follow-up to the NKLM National Medical Care Plan and to submit a plan for further follow-up to the proposals.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a national ICT solution to provide better communication between patients, permanent practitioners, colleagues’ networks, municipalities and specialist health services, including organisational, accountability, funding and implementation models.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the development and piloting of ICT systems for the implementation of permanent agencies that enable secure electronic dialogue and communication between fixed and list patients. In this context, the reimbursement system must be adapted in such a way that this technology is applied professionally.’» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-29.ana.ud891e3892	There is no record.
