ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e26	The Socialist Left Group has been informed that the remaining part of the granted leave of the representative Aksel Hagen has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. The representatives of Marianne Aasen, Thomas Breen, Hilde Magnusson, Harald T. Nesvik, Torstein Rudihagen, Stine Renate Håheim, Aksel Hagen, Nikolai Astrup and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde and Eli Scholand For Northern Ireland: Kari Storstrand For Oslo: Lotte Grepp Knutsen For the Rogaland County: Terje Halleland For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Sonja Edvardsen For the Telemark counties: Edvard Meland and Odin Adelsten Bohmann For South-Trundellag County: Siv Aida Rui Skatem An application for sick leave has been submitted by Mr Jon Jäger Gåssvatn, representative of the Group of the Progressive Alliance, from 24 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Erlend Wiborg, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e115	Erlend Wiborg is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e123	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e126	I am delighted on behalf of the representatives Per Willy Amundsen, Kenneth Svendsen, Tord Lien, Bård Hoksrud, Oskar J. Grimstad, Øyvind Korsberg and myself to make a proposal to change § 3 of the law on motor travel in the outland, local administration of snowmobile tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e131	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e134	I am delighted, on behalf of the great-grandfather Sonja Irene Sjøli, Arve Kambe and myself, to present a proposal for a representative on changes to the parental leave scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e139	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e151	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Sigbjørn Johnsen, Marit Arnstad and Inga Marte Thorkildsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main question, from the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e158	The State budget was presented a few weeks ago. There is an increase in road and rail appropriations. That's good, although the Progress Party is disappointed that much of the bet is due to increased tolls. We are disappointed that climbing funding is still being carried out. When you give 50 million. kr to Bergensbanen, a project that will cost between 3 and 4 billion. kr, it is obvious that the most important thing is not to have a good drive, but to have something to boast of. The main deficit in the budget. It is a new way of financing road and rail transport that improves progress, can project it better and more reasonably – get labour from abroad to complement the Norwegian labour force and simply get projects carried out faster, cheaper and better. It has been addressed by the Minister of Finance in a chronicle five years ago. But as Minister of Finance, he doesn't do anything about it. Now he should get some drag help from BI professor Torger Reve, who in Stavanger Evening Magazine just a week ago said that he thought we should build a new E39 with oil money, because it would be a more profitable investment than investing oil money abroad. It would generate growth in business, it would create more jobs and it would expand the housing and labour markets. Similarly, we have seen in analyses that relate to the intercity triangle in Oslo, which will give the same positive effects. Nevertheless, the government prefers to finance everything above the state budget, while we save our profits in the oil fund cheaply abroad. Then we borrow the money expensively back home to build bomb projects that the drivers have to pay. But the interest rate is higher when we borrow the money home than what we get when we borrow the money. This is not a responsible economic policy. Recently, we've seen that the government is getting state companies to employ more workers in executive positions or in executive positions. It would make more sense to spend the money to ensure that an infrastructure company is set up to build roads and railways. Will the Minister of Finance make sure that this work is started?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e169	There's a lot to take up the post from Ketil Solvik-Olsen. Initially, I think you just have to admit that it will probably be difficult to satisfy the Progress Party just in this area, in terms of road and rail development. What is one of the starting points, and as the representative Solvik-Olsen has tried for a long time, is to make a kind of picture of the fact that there is some free money to build road and rail in this country. There's actually only one kind of money. They can be granted over the state budget, or they can be granted through toll companies, which are the two main ways we are now financing. This government has overfulfilled the promise we made in connection with transport investments, through the state budget presented on 8 October. We deliver what we promise, and we do what we promise. As for the relationship with Germany, which has long been a central area of the representative Solvik-Olsen, we do not lend money to German roads. On the other hand, the Norwegian State contributes to the financing of the German State through the purchase of German sovereign debt, which Germany can use to any extent. They can use it for roads, but they can also use it for other important purposes in the German state budget. To give an example: in the case of interest on loans in toll companies, it is right to charge an interest rate of 6,5 pst in the case of projects to be financed. But it's not the interest the toll companies pay. For example, toll companies that finance themselves into the Municipal Bank pay on average an interest rate of about 2.4 pst. There are some myths that Solvik-Olsen's representative here is trying to spread, which are simply not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e180	It is good that the State Council acknowledges that the Progress Party has more ambitions on road and rail than the government has. I'm glad the Council of State has noticed. Then I do not claim that there is free money. But what I'm saying is, it's cheaper to spend the money you have than to borrow money from abroad. It's a little strange when the Minister of Finance today says 2.4 pst. the average interest rate on the toll project, while his State Secretary in the Evening Paper wrote that it was close to 3 p.m. So I think he's going to clean up a little bit of the numbers. But the important thing here is that regardless of whether you trust the Minister of Finance or his State Secretary, the borrowing rate is higher than what we get in income when we borrow money to Germany, which chooses to use the money to build roads. That's when Torger Reve, who is a BI professor, says that there's no point in borrowing out cheaply and borrowing home again expensive when you have capital to build roads that make the economy work better. So you remove the pressure in the Norwegian economy. Once again, my question is: Will the Council of State have an infrastructure company to help build better roads and railways?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e189	Actually, this discussion is about what the Progress Party is all about in this Chamber. It's using more oil money, just to get rid of it. That's what this discussion is about. I think we can just get it up on the table. So it is not my representative, Solvik-Olsen, that should try first and foremost to convince. It's the representative Jan Tore Sanner, it's those who the Progress Party has the ambition to go to government with, with which they have to convince, because the Progress Party is all about in the Storting to want to spend more oil money. It is not necessary for the Norwegian State to borrow for transport investment in the way. We spend money on the state budget. That's the best way to finance it, and that's the cheapest. Some public-sector companies contribute to commercial investment. Avinor is one example, NSB another, where one buys material over operations. I see no need to set up a separate company to finance road development on the state's hand in addition to the companies we already have, called the State Road Administration and Mesta. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e198	The President must remind us that the speaking time during the first round is 2 minutes, both for questions and for answers. Three follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first by the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e203	It's strange to hear the Minister of Finance. I actually don't think he believes what he says. I also believe those sitting on the press bench, now hear that there is no credibility in what the Minister of Finance says. Tolls are a tax. Planned road projects involve 120 billion. kr more in tolls. It's a tax that affects everyone who drives a car, and it's a tax that affects business. This increases the price of goods carried by road and reduces Norwegian competitiveness. At the same time, Norwegian money laundering is growing. This money issue is, among other things, based on debt securities with an average value of 1,8 pst. returns. At the same time, we borrow money to go to 3 pst., on average-- or 2.4 pst., if that's what the council says. It's just as idiotic anyway. In other words, we buy cheaply and sell cheaply. That's AS Norway we're talking about. You can't separate out different parts of this. It's AS Norway, and it's a deficit firm, as the Council of State has. Would the Council of State have managed its own money in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e214	The President will ask the representative to find a different concept than ‘idiotic’ to describe the position of political opponents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e217	I believe in what I'm doing myself, that's absolutely right. It is good to hear that the representative Tybring-Gjedde believes this should be the case. [[Laughter]] That's good. To return to the answer I gave to the previous question, this is about the desire to use more oil money – to use that expression – in the Norwegian economy and to break the rule of action. Fortunately, there is a large majority against in Stortinget. That's good. So there's an interesting point here, which is a little bit of a siding. I'll mention it anyway. It is that there is a broad consensus on how the State pension fund is to invest abroad, agreement on the distribution of shares, bonds and property. When one proposed to increase its share in 2008, the Progress Party voted against. They wanted more investment in government bonds, in other words more purchases of German government bonds – interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e226	Yes, we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e232	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e235	There are few areas of Norwegian society that are as overly mature for reforms as transport policy. It's been built in pieces and divided, and it's going too slowly. One important reason why things are going too slow is that the red-green government has opposed any kind of innovation within the transport sector in the seven years it has been sitting. It has been tried by the Prime Minister, and now also by the Minister of Finance, with Public Private Cooperation, which is demonstrably giving us the way faster. It was said by the finance minister now that in Norway we do not need to borrow money to build a roadway. But through the toll companies, you borrow money to build a road. In the case of OPS, the Prime Minister says that there is a path to making payments. Can the Minister of Finance explain to me the difference between borrowing money through ordinary toll companies and borrowing money for construction through OPS projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e244	There's a difference in substance that's important to bring with it. It is that when a contract for a so-called Public Private Cooperation is entered into, not only a contract for the construction of the road, a long-term maintenance contract is also included. So one is given to one supplier. It was such an experience that made Jan Tore Sanner's party traps in England think it was an unusually bad idea to continue with what one had been doing in England for a long time. We're getting some international experience in this area that I think it's good to bring into the Norwegian discussion. Then I fully agree with Mr Sanner that it is important to look at how we organise large-scale transport projects, how we conduct planning activities in this society. These are areas that the government has said it will look forward to the new roll-out of the transport plan. The Minister for Transport can certainly elaborate on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e251	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e254	The finance minister says that the best funding – and the cheapest – is above the state budget. The Prime Minister said very clearly that buying a route on payment is customs and crazy. Then it is a great paradox that in the state budget for 2013, tolls are the biggest funding. Roads purchased for hire are for the first time the largest investment in the case, larger than the state contributions. That is why my question arises as to why the government is going against the policy for which they themselves are, if they think that funding from the state budget is the best and the cheapest. Thus, for the first time in the 2013 government budget, investments to prevent reimbursement are larger than government investments. Can the Minister of Finance explain to me why they are opposed to their own policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e261	With regard to the ratio to pay-off and OPS, which is also below the question asked by the representative Hareide, I refer to the previous answer. If you look at the state funding of road projects, there is no doubt that the cheapest way to finance road projects is through ordinary government budget appropriations. Here this government has delivered. We had great ambitions. We have delivered in terms of ambition, plus please a little more. So it is a common and good feature in Norwegian road construction that, in cases where there is a local wish for toll companies, the government presents a proposition to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget decides whether there is a way to proceed. If Stortinget says yes to this, a local toll company is set up to finance road development. I think such a combination is a good mix. Then we can always discuss the distribution between government appropriations and toll-funded projects. That's a slightly different discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e270	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e273	I have a question for the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. Most families in Norway are well-functioning, and there are people who want to live their lives without interference and detailed management by red-green politicians. The parental leave is a scheme that all newly-baked parents look forward to, but most are very surprised to meet it. It is associated with a lot of paperwork, a lot of bureaucracy and, not least, a very complicated legislation. In 2010, Nav received 550 000 enquiries about the parental leave scheme. In 2010, Nav spent 600 years managing the scheme. Last year the time spent almost doubled. There is a need for a radical simplification of the parental leave scheme. Nav has realized that himself. They have approached the government and asked for a simplification. They believe that they should spend less time on this, and it should be made less expensive. The red-green have wanted to govern the parental leave system rather than give parents freedom of choice. It has made the scheme terribly complicated, costly and bureaucratic. Does the Council of State see the need for new ideas and better solutions to simplify parental leave and administration of the scheme, or does the Council of State consider this to be a reasonable use of resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e286	Let me start by thanking you for the question. This is a subject that we have debated quite a lot, and I believe that the right in this area, which is about simplification, has played a constructive role. There is, as the government sees it, a clear need for simplification in this legislation. It is too complicated, and there are a lot of fathers – especially fathers – who are often in contact with Nav to try to figure out what the legislation is. The rules are partly complicated, and then you have to train a lot of employees, and often new employees, and you also have to struggle with an ICT system that is not as modern as it should be. All of those parts we're going to do something about. Nav is about to renew its ICT system. In the first place, disability benefits will be taken into account, the second being sickness benefits and parental leave to improve the system and modern ICT systems. In addition, we can do a part with the legislation to make it easier to understand for more than those who need to have a major or master's degree in this particular topic. That's also a goal for us. We want to get as many parents as possible out of their leave, because it is important that they have time with their children – also for fathers to have time with their children, so the family quota is important. We'll come back to Stortinget with proposals for simplifications in less than a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e297	I'm very happy to hear the Council of State's response, but what scares me is that there's very little agreement between the Council of State here in Stortinget, and what the government actually does. Several proposals for simplification have been submitted to the right. We wish, among other things: an online banking solution where parents can sit at home and distribute the leave. But the government is voting against all the proposals that the Right is promoting on simplification. What we find difficult is that the government in practical policy defends bureaucracy, defends the system, rather than make it easier for people, and – not least – to free resources for those who need the care of society the most. What's interesting about getting the government's clear response here is: Will the government shortly bring forward clear and simplified legislation that benefits all parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e304	My ambition is that we should get to Stortinget quickly with a proposal for simplification. The representative of Hofstad Helleland will be 100 pst. satisfied, I can't guarantee. These include: that we are not looking at the proposal that we should focus on a Swedish solution. The reason it's about the obligation of activity, it's about the taskbar. There's too much to say about it, and it has both its advantages and its disadvantages this proposal to do it just like Sweden does. One advantage, of course, is that you can add up to a self-service solution. You can also do that without going as far as the Swedish model. But the disadvantage is related to the obligation of activity, ensuring that women return to work. And the workline used to be something that also the Right was concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e310	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Arve Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e313	This is a matter in which the Right is very committed. It should have been as simple as when you get the pleasure of being a parent, you get a letter from Nav saying that you've become a parent, you've got a right, we want to know when in three years you're going to take out that right – point. Today, Nav receives 550 000 enquiries and employs 600 people who manage nearly half a billion dollars only in bureaucracy to distribute something people have an obvious right to get – then you have to interfere. Then, in addition, a whole bunch of enquiries have been made in this bureaucracy when Nav refuses to take out his father's quota because they have forgotten to tick a form. Hundreds, perhaps up to a thousand, of requests now lie with the Social Security Court and burden the state budget with conflicts instead of solutions for families. Will the Council of State help all fathers who have lost their rights, for whatever reason, to get their money back and the leave reintroduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e320	I have always been very clear that we are working with simplifications and come back with proposals for simplifications. I have also met with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, whom I have previously informed the representative, Mr Kambe, who, in a commendable way from the Chair of the Stortinge, has been concerned with the rights of these fathers. There we have, among other things: provided solutions to which we have received positive feedback from the fathers concerned. So I think we have to be able to get a solution that makes it easy to understand for people, while at the same time taking into account the impact of the different proposals on the workline, and that it is important that mothers also come back to work. We also have to take that discussion. I expect that discussion will be hotter in the future, based on, among other things. The Skeleton Committee, which has had its assessments of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e327	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e330	I think the answers from this government to difficult questions are that this is something they intend to do about. But I think we can establish that this government is not concerned with either simplification or red tape. The Council of State says that they should start by simplifying the pension system, then they should take the sick pay, and eventually the parents will. But let me make it clear: who is it that is online today, who is it who controls their everyday life on iPad, on the Internet, where they book vacations, organize their everyday life? Well, it's the modern family that lives today. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: why does the government not start its simplification with those who are already online today, the modern family?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e337	This is not about the problems of the people, it is about the problems of the ICT systems. I also have to hurry to say that it would be worse if this government were not interested in improving what was problematic. But obviously we're also going to get criticism to answer that we're dealing with the things that we need to deal with. We're going to come back to Stortinget with proposals for simplification. We have also implemented simplifications, for example: We have removed the rule that mother had to work 50 pst. for father to be entitled to a father's allowance. We've also done a lot of other steps that have given more people rights. We insist that fathers should have the opportunity to be at home with their children, even where you have employers who want to be against it, or mothers at any time view this leave as theirs. It's about a freedom debate, it's about taking on board that in terms of freedom, and freedom of choice, you also have to take into account structures and expectations that can be informal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e342	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e345	It's good to hear that the government sees the need for simplification, and we'll see when the results come. But I guess I'm not the only one who's come out of the census on the enquiries I've received by e-mail, on Facebook, on telephones, etc. from fathers who have lost their father’s permit because of some fault in the application procedure of this complicated legislation. The Council of State shows that there are now some of these who have been told out on their complaints, and I understand that they are concerned, are satisfied, as the Council of State says. But there are still a lot of people left who haven't got their paperwork. Will the Council of State take the initiative to clean up the old cases and put them behind them, so that fathers get paper commission, and then we can do the simplification work and clean up the legislation afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e352	I am also very concerned about some of these questions because we see that some uncertainties that have partly to do with the systems, and also that you have received the wrong information from Nav, we know, have helped to ensure that someone has not been granted their rights. We're not going to have it like that. That's why we're going to come back with a simpler system, as well as working with the ICT system itself. It takes a little longer – we know that. There are processes that need to be solved. When it's in place, it'll be easier for people to relate to it. Then you can also have several online solutions – that is our ambition. Then we have been in dialogue with the Employment and Welfare Directorate on some of the old issues. Not everyone can get their solution – some of them don't have those rights anymore, and that's a problem. But the Directorate of Labour and Welfare is the one responsible for that side of the case, and we can possibly answer more detailed questions in writing afterwards if it is desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e359	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e362	The question goes to the same Council of State. The government has committed to an increase in parental leave by two weeks in the State budget for 2013. That's good. Norway stands out internationally because we have rusty arrangements in these areas. Although there is disagreement about the device and, not least, about the freedom of choice for young children’s parents, there is a broad consensus that we in Norway want to have rustling arrangements in connection with births, for young people and families. Not only that – we agree that it has been a success. I believe that both the Councils of State and several major committees have gladly told their international colleagues about these arrangements and have seen that they have become a model for other countries. But this roughness doesn't apply to everyone. While those who have employee income and acquired rights can now get up to half a million kroner, those who do not have employee income and acquired rights get a one-time benefit of 35,263 kroner. The amount is scheduled to continue in nominal terms next year. One group receives more, and the other group receives less — the differences are increasing. The question for the Minister for Children is: What are the considerations behind when the government chooses to increase these differences and this injustice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e374	Let me start again by thanking you for the question. So I want to say that I want to warn you that you put these two things up against each other. We would like to have a discussion about the one-time benefit – I would like to welcome that discussion. I think it's very exciting with the signals that have come from the Skjeie Committee, which sees an alternative twist on the one-time carpentry. I expect that this will lead to a heated debate based on workline thinking, based on a lot – integration, too, for that matter. I hope that discussion can be taken. But I don't think we're going to set it up against the grips we're doing to improve the leave arrangement as such and not least to fulfill our promises from Soria Moria. I imagine the debate if we had not fulfilled the promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration, which are clearer on this issue of parental leave and paperwork than on the one-off social welfare. In terms of the one-time benefit, we've said that we should consider increasing it. We've converted it once. It's the same thing that the Bondevik II government chose to do in the four years it set – they re-calculate it once. So it wasn't like that the one-time benefit was some fan stuff in the last period. Rather, let's take the discussion about the one-time carpentry space forward, not least related to the Skeeie selection setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e385	We may have different opinions about both the workline, integration and the one with the other, but it's now time for the kids to come anyway, and they deserve a good start. I think we should start the discussion there. Then the Council of State will refer to the Skjeie Committee, and that's good. The Equality Committee has seen this as a good equality case. But it's almost four years since this Soria Moria statement came and the government saw the need to assess this issue. What have you done? I am also surprised that the Council of State says that it warns against holding these things up against each other, because the party leader in SV, Kristin Halvorsen, spoke on Monday, August 11, 2008 in Dagbladet to raise the one-time aid strongly. She said, ‘Wherever the maternity leave has been improved, the gap between those who have rights and those who do not have it has become disproportionate.’ Is this unfair, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e399	As I said, I welcome this discussion on the one-off benefit. I think it is particularly exciting with the thoughts that emerge in the position of the Skjeie Committee that I have just received, and that we are now sending to the hearing, but that we have not addressed to the government for the time being. They were mandated to look at gender also in a class perspective and a life-cycle perspective. So it's very interesting: who doesn't have the rights to parental leave, where do they come from, what country, and what age do they have? We have also provided in my budget for more outreach activities aimed in particular at immigrant women who have been at home for a long time on the cash support that the Christian People's Party so generously introduced. We see that it works well to get people to work. But then you also need outreach – I was ironic, in case someone didn't get it with you – to the record. So that discussion I look forward to getting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e408	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e411	It's interesting that you had to wait for the Skjeie Committee to dry to act on your own Soria Moria statement, because already in the Soria Moria statement you talked about raising the one-time benefit. But let me point to a group that I, based on the line of argument that the Council of State has here, would think that she should have had an interest in lifting. It's about all the women who have the challenges of combining studies with having children. It is the largest economic risk sport you can do, and there are no rights and opportunities to complete your study time safely at the same time as you have children. An increase in one-off aid will be a major economic aid for this group as well. We know that it's just 6 pst. of the students who manage without additional funding on the support they receive today. If you really wanted women to take part in work and study and have the opportunity to have children, is this argument enough to trust their Soria Moria promise to raise the disposable benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e420	We have done exactly what the government supported by the representative, Eriksen, did last – that is, to convert the one-time benefit once. That's the same thing that the Bondevik II government did. We have done what we said in the Soria Moria statement – that is to consider raising the one-time benefit. So we did it concretely – we raised it by price conversion. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the gap is large. We have asked for that discussion by giving a mandate to the Skjeie Committee to look at gender also in a class and life-cycle perspective. It gives some very interesting answers and some recommendations to us, which also relate to the discussion that the representative here is going about students. Then it's about many immigrant women who don't have rights, it's about many young people and also about taking the discussion about how we can help them get to work afterwards. It's also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e429	The questioner was concerned with several measures in relation to families with young children and with the possibility of equalising differences. In this context, more and more professional bodies have called for the increase of child rights to be an important means of combating child poverty. SV has now started the election campaign, but in the previous election campaign, combating poverty was one of the major election issues of SV – something we have seen that they have not done so much with. The question will be whether we get it now in this election campaign. But as I said, child poverty has increased in recent years with this government, and when more and more professional bodies say that increasing child welfare is important, my question becomes to the Council of State: Does the Council of State agree that increasing child welfare is important in combating child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e436	If you really wanted to benefit from such an approach, you would have to spend billions of dollars to recover for the delay that has occurred, unless you want to make your child's pension more targeted, for example. against the families with many children, which are especially covered by the definition of long-term low income. There are immigrant families. It would be interesting to hear the assessment of it by the Progress Party. Instead, we have priority to choose to spend the billions on kindergartens and to increase the parental deduction related to taxes, for example, for the care and care of children. It's because we know that the most important thing we can do to prevent child poverty is to make sure that more people get a good start in life, that you can find out about the kids who are really struggling – we've also done that by strengthening child protection – and that more children go to kindergarten. It provides a unique opportunity for early action. That also makes more people do better in school. The nursery is the key. We also spend money on child protection and on inquiring work with immigrant women, so that they can get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e443	Linda C. Hofstad Helleland – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e446	In the case of us children's families, the red-green government, with SV in the head, has given more to those who have the most from before. This applies, for example: the maximum price, which benefits the middle class, while those who are low-paid do not get out of it so well. It also shows that, for example: are more right-wing municipalities than red-green municipalities providing low-wages cheaper kindergartens. This concerns the extension of the parental leave where highly educated people and those in good jobs benefit from a rough system, while many with poor finances do not see themselves able to take out the entire quota, because you are unable to operate their loans, among other things. Why won't the Council of State change some of the schemes that give more to those who have the most from before, and rather target more schemes and help those who are the weakest financially equipped, and the families of children in Norway who are the most struggling?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e453	When the Right criticises us for giving more to those who already have the most, you should listen carefully. I have to say that when the approaches we have taken to kindergartens, to child protection, to outreach activities in order for immigrant women to have the opportunity to work, which is the most important thing we can do to combat child poverty, are decimated in this way, I think it is unfair to the people who have received the help that has come from the budgetary priorities that we have done – 60,000 more kindergartens with this government, legalized right to kindergarten. Over 90 pst. 1 to 5 year-olds are now in kindergarten. That's the most important thing we can do to prevent its poverty in life. Half a billion, about, are now earmarked for child protection next year -- it's very important. Now, we're making the scheme that we call Jobjeansen, as a project this year, permanent, and next year we're going to get a boost of $30 million. kr just directed towards immigrant women. It is of great importance to child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e461	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e464	My question goes to the Minister of Transport, but I have to start with the fact that the Minister of Finance, in a previous round of replies, clearly seemed that it was okay to borrow cheaply to Germany, and that Norwegian drivers lend heavily back to Norway. The finance minister also said we don't need the company, because we have the state road system and Mesta. Now, as far as I know, the state road service is not a company; it is a management body, and Mesta is an entrepreneurial company and is not comparable to Avinor in any way. But the government has just since the state budget was presented, boasted that it will now be the time's bet on transportation. With respect to reporting, that's not right. This year we're finishing 11 km of highway, next year we're going to finish 15 km. We're going to complete the 24 km yellow mid-strip until next year. We've completed 17 miles in the middle of this year, we're going to complete 19 miles to next year. So the state council has scolded homelessly because we've granted over 10 pst. more on the road by the State. The number of cars, in the form of tolls, increases by more than 60 pst. from the State budget in 2012 to the State budget in 2013. Then, in fact, all the drivers provide what is of commercial development through very expensive toll projects. Since the red-green takeover in 2005 and until today, they have decided to add a further 120 billion. kr in additional tax via tolls. It's a tax that the drivers, i.e. we, have to pay just because we're driving a car. In addition, a one-off fee, annual tax, VAT, re-registration fee, user fee, CO2 tax plus a couple of small charges. The question is, when is enough for this government? Or is it actually never enough? In fact, it may seem that it is the last thing that is right for the Minister of Transport and this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e476	Let me just repeat also in this Chamber that the government, with the transport budget for next year, is doing the lifting of time in terms of transportation. The growth in the appropriations for the track and road in addition to the price increase under this government has been 64 pst. It was gathered during the four years that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left were placed in government, on 6 p.m. It says a little bit about the difference. This government is making a big effort. The representative of Hoksrud chooses to see miles from year to year. I can take the whole picture. It is under construction or opened 225 km of four-field road under this government. Half of all four-field roads we have in Norway are built under this government. It's under construction or opened 170 km of mine under this government. That's the fraction of middle parts that are built here in the country. It's built together almost 400 km of non-convenient road under this government, and it's built 971 km of new highway while this government is sitting. It's this government proud of. It seems to us that the government has given priority to transport year after year, and unlike previous governments, we have actually fulfilled the national transport plan that we promised to implement in 2009 – an NTP that LO and NHO thought was very ambitious, and that is now being fulfilled for the first four-year period. So all in all, we are very pleased with the government's appropriations and the state's commitment to transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e483	I understand that the Council of State will not talk about the huge needs that are there, but the whole time chooses to tell how much more money the government has granted. But I want to challenge the Minister of Transport. Since 2005 and up to now, 54 toll projects have been adopted in the United Kingdom. In these are over 70 pst. expenditure financed by tolls. According to State Secretary Hilde Singsaas of the Ministry of Finance, tolls are involved in speeding up road projects, and this is due to local initiatives. That's probably why the projects are in NTP with lots of tolls long before they get to Stortinget. But when all these toll projects are so-called local initiatives that make sure that the projects are put in line, I ask the Council of State to tell me which projects the government itself has prioritised and will expand, and also to inform the Storting how many projects have come to the Storting because the red-greens have prioritised them, and not as a result of state-pressed so-called local initiatives. It would be interesting to know where the state is financing road construction 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e490	Like the Minister of Finance, I would like to stress that this is the case today – and there is a broad majority in the UK that is behind it – that a person is financing the road either through appropriations and priorities for the state budget or through additional funding through tolls. It's been the case for many years, it's also going to be the case in 2013. But then the toll percentage has increased. I believe that the comparison that I see with the Right Party and the Advance Party is wrong. They choose to take a cut of the budget. It's going to be a completely incorrect representation. But it is true that the toll ratio represents an increase, and that is as a consequence of the increase in public spending, because when public spending increases, there is also room for more projects. There is also an increase in the number of toll projects. But 9 of the 15 projects that are going to start next year in the budget will be fully funded by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e497	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e500	The Minister of Finance said it was important to give priority to the road within the annual budgets. The cheapest way to build a road was to grant the money. But then we were also told that the Minister of Finance is unable to explain the difference between OPS projects financed by tolls and state roads financed by tolls. The only difference is whether you have a maintenance contract or not, but the funding is exactly the same. One borrows money, mainly abroad, to build a road in Norway, that is, the exact opposite of what the finance minister said was sensible economic policy. It's cheapest to give your own money. Yes, the government is granting more money now than seven years ago, but then one also has a terrible lot more money than seven years ago. It has all the parties that make their budgets on the Stortinget. Therefore, it is also relevant to compare year by year, not by 10 years back. Then my question is again, because it is about system: Will the Minister of Transport do what the Minister of Finance meant five years ago, and contribute to the establishment of a state-owned road and rail investment company that ensures that a few built things in a longer, faster and cheaper perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e507	When I became Minister of Transport, I thought that now I should really go into this with alternative funding: what is it now? I tried to go into it a little bit, and then I thought there was no quick fix solution. There's no cheap money out there that you can just pick out, if you're not going to do like the Advance Party and just ignore the rule of action and spend more oil money. But that won't be the majority in this room, and then there's no easy way to get more money, you actually have to give it priority to the government budget. So it's that alternative organization can be an opportunity. There may be some gains, I think, in cost-saving and efficiency-enhancing, but it can be done both outside and within the public domain. It doesn't have to happen in private, it can happen in public as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e514	Øyvind Halleraker - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e517	In that listing the council had initially, she probably got hurt to take a little bit of Møller's tran. Some of the four-field roads to which she referred were adopted and launched under Bondevik II. Now we are reading the Minister of Transport's budget, and it is quite clear that large projects are being allocated approximately. 4 B.C.E. kr. When we know that tolls have increased from 4.5 billion. I'll give you $13.8. Including the county roads that have been transferred to the counties, this represents a formidable turnaround in the financing of transport. So I'm a little surprised that Arnstad is celebrating it away and doesn't see that it's problematic that the balance that we've had is changing. Doesn't she see?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e524	Halleraker chooses to include both highways and county roads in terms of tolls, but not in terms of appropriations – then he only takes one item with large investments. That means he ignores the investment in county roads, he ignores investment in smaller projects, i.e. they're less than 100 million. kr, he ignores the half billion we still pay on the 2001 OPS projects, he ignores the 1.5 billion. NOK we pay to repair and invest to race safe roads, and he ignores the 950 km of road we're going to pave over the next year. I think it's going to be a mistake. Then I'm the first to admit that the tolls have increased, but that's also because public funds have increased. If it is the case that the Right now has a newly won scepticism against tolls, it would be interesting to hear if the Right intends to vote against toll projects that are presented to the Stortinget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e532	Knut Arild Hareide - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e535	It is very good that the Minister for Transport has looked into alternative funding. I had also hoped that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister would do the same. So the Prime Minister said that ‘if Norway starts to finance road projects, we have done very foolishly’. He also said, "We don't have to buy roads on payment, we can give them cash". Then my question is, is it the government that borrowing is quite OK when it concerns the toll project, while it is not OK and correct when it concerns the OPS project? In reality, toll projects and OPS have very much the same funding. When you look at developments today and the Prime Minister says that we are setting us up very stupidly when we finance loans, is that exactly what the government is doing through the toll projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e542	Toll financing is a built-in financing based on local initiatives for which the entire Biggest outside the Progress Party is in favour. The progress party locally is also for that at times. That funding should be able to continue. In the case of OPS, it strikes me that what you do there is to forward the bill to future governments, because the expenses you have with OPS will remain on the government budget for perhaps 20-30 years to come. You could ask David Cameron today if he thinks it's nice to pay for Tony Blair's OPS projects five or ten years ago. The kind of funding, which reduces the freedom of action of future governments, I think would be unwise to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e547	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e550	Since this is my first main question to the new Council of State, I would like to congratulate her on her new job. We actually have some expectations for this council because on several occasions she has said that she wants to get more money back in the transport sector. The first time I read this, I thought she had found an old script from a Right-State Council of Government offices, because she's talking about predictable and alternative funding, smarter contract strategies, more efficient and faster planning and development. When the Minister of Transport now wants to do things in a smarter way, we have a proposal in the Right. In 2010, there was an evaluation report from TØI on competitive outsourcing on Gjøvikbanen. This demonstrated that the outsourcing has contributed to lower costs and better provision to passengers without having done so at the expense of employees’ pay and working conditions, and competition has provided better and fairer offers and better passenger numbers. Yes, in fact, the Ministry of Transport has also gained increased knowledge and competence about the railways through this. So there is no doubt that you have got more for the money, in this case the train money, by putting out a suitable distance. In the past, the right has proposed to phase out the Kongswingerbahn. Now we're going to do it again, and it could be a good place for the council to start. That is why the question is asked to the Council of State: will she now come to the bottom of the drawer and find out this evaluation report and perhaps make a proposal to the European Parliament to launch appropriate rail sections?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e561	I would like to thank Mr Halleraker for his congratulations. Thank you very much! I have followed the questionnaire and seen in the media that I am both described as a debutant and as one who has not been in the questionnaire since the last century. So it makes me feel both inexperienced and antiquarian at the same time – but enough about it. This government wants to bet significantly on the railway. I don't think outsourcing is an end in itself, I still think that railway investment must also take the form of priorities within the state budget. That is what this government has shown to be. We've tripled the investments in the railways at the time we've been sitting, and we've increased the investments by 30 pst. only from last year to this year. This means that the government is already in the process of developing intercity, which is perhaps the most important measure one can consider within the railway in the next ten years, and that major intercity development projects are already under planning. That competitive outsourcing itself should somehow solve some problem related to railway operations, I have to say I'm uncertain about. I also believe that it is about prioritizing the money that is needed to obtain the investments in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e568	Now we're not talking about investment, now we're talking about making an offer better for the users. To refer only from the report, it states that competition has provided lower costs, better offers, higher passenger numbers and better opportunities for public governance. The gain has been achieved without any deterioration in the working conditions of employees. My question will then be: does the Minister for Transport see any reason at all that we should not continue this success story in competing on the railways?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e575	I believe that there are many opportunities to improve the rail offer for people and also improve the offer in terms of both frequency and travel time. But I think that's actually possible to do within the public domain. This government is also in the process of doing so. It's a little about investment, too, not just about the organisation of the offer and the operation of it. But we are also in the process of operating and renewing the existing one, among other things. the railway-side infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e580	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e583	With the answer that the Council of State has now given to questions from the representative Halleraker, the picture disappeared that the Council of State wants to look at new solutions. When the right is concerned with competition on the track, it is because there is evidence that it provides travellers with better services, there are more people using the train, it gets cheaper, there is a greater degree of regularity, and there is overall a better offer. There are many people who can imagine the Fly train both on the Bergensbanen and on the East Line. You can get to others on the track that come from somewhere else. But the TØI report proves that this has been a good move, and I am disappointed that the Council of State in its first oral Question Time cannot show new solutions with which she has introduced herself. Is it really the case that the Council of State does not see that the report actually points out that competition offers better offers to travellers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e592	I might be a little surprised that if you don't agree exactly with the Right, you suddenly have no new thoughts and no new ideas at all. It is clear that it is fully possible to be concerned with both more coherent development, organisational solutions and better and faster planning, without having to agree exactly with the Right Solutions. It is fully possible to do things both more coherent and faster also on public railway development. Railway development – perhaps more than in many other types of development – depends on continuous development before actually benefiting from it, that it actually becomes a better offer for users. And that's what this government is doing. It is clear that the major projects we have now within intercity, both the Farriseidet-Porsgrund and also Holm-Holmestrand-Nykirke and Langset-Kleverud up towards Hamar, are projects that are going to pay off in the form of better travel offers for passengers. The important thing about them is that there are long and continuous expansions that are in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e598	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e601	Now, I guess the Transport Economics Institute is not known for being a political party. I guess the closest thing is that this is what the government refers to when you're doing calculations and calculations. There should be a good basis for discussing this with competitive outsourcing. We actually think that the Gjøvik track is a very good example, where you got 30 pst for the same money. More departures, customers are much more satisfied than they were under the NSB, and even the director said – as the transport committee was on the move in the previous period – that this could never have happened to the old NSB, one needed NSB Tenders and get competition to improve quality. It shows that competition is a very good way to do it, and I find it sad that the third Council of State – which I hope we will be replaced in 2013 – is equally negative to look at competition and all the positive elements it brings to the train passengers. It should be the most important thing – that train passengers receive the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e608	I don't think the representative Hoksrud of the Progress Party is going to move me any particular when it comes to putting out competition, but I must once again be allowed to stress that there is a lot of work that can be done within the public sector to improve the rail offer and also improve rail development. That's what this government is doing, and that's what we're going to do. We have tripled the investments compared to previous governments, we have made major changes on the operating side, and the NSB is also in the process of improving train provision to people around the country. I believe that what Hoksrud clearly believes has to be put off for competition is fully possible to do in public.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e615	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e618	I must also congratulate the Minister. My experience is that she is doing well and has been doing it for a long time, so I forgot it in the beginning. I want to take up a dilemma, because we are a few who want more people to take the train, among other things. into the big cities. We want more people to travel collectively, but we have now built up a funding, there is a broad deal about it in the Storting, which means that if we close up with that policy, the funding disappears around the collective supply, and the Evening Post is quite right when they write that if we close up with the policy we want, then the collective supply will collapse. My question to the Minister is: Will he look at this when we come to the National Transport Plan – because this is a long-term challenge that has built up and become worse and worse, and we are forced to do something about this when we get the National Transport Plan to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e627	Yes, I think it's an interesting issue that the representative Hareide is drawing up. There are two sides: one is the paradox that much of the public transport in Oslo is financed by tolls — and therefore by road. The other side of it is that after the climate agreement, the ‘reward scheme’ is going to be a completely different concept than it has been so far. That means that we should think of new thoughts from both the government and the Storting in terms of how we spend the money in the big cities in the years to come. In the first place, I intend to invite some of the largest cities to dialogue meetings with the department, before I also come back to the Stortinget to discuss that issue more closely in the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e636	Borghild Tenden - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e639	I'm in line with congratulations. That the Left is for outsourcing is no big news, it's all probably for a long time. But what's equally important is to get speed on the tracks that these trains are going to go on. The Council of State itself mentioned the intercity triangle, and it will take at least 40 years before this section is in place at the pace set by the government. I see the council shake their heads, but they're our calculations. Is the Council satisfied with that timetable? If not, what concrete action will she take?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e648	Here I really believe that the representative Tenden, and also Ketil Solvik-Olsen on a previous question, misunderstands, because they mention 50 million. kr to Bergensbanen – and what is granted in start-up appropriations, among others. to the Mosse tunnel of 50 million. kr. Then they draw that line linearly forward and say that the expansion takes 30 or 40 years. But in the real world, investment projects are not financed that way. They will always have a curve-like development. This means that, even if the appropriations are small at the beginning, they must be refinanced in such a way as to keep good progress in the project and to be completed at the right time. This, of course, also means that the appropriations must increase on the projects under way. However, using as a political argument that there should be some sort of linear function in an investment project, there are no projects in practice — nor these.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e653	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e665	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 12 and 13 from the representatives of Svein Harberg and Dagrun Eriksen, respectively, to the Minister for Culture, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e680	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Many landowners in the Vestmarken area in Hedmark have plans to develop the area for, inter alia: tourism and tourism, but the Ministry of Environment says no. Is this in line with the government's objective that farmers/forests should have more opportunities to use their resources and properties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e694	Westmarka is a rural area with special natural values in the southern part of Hedmark and is located within the municipalities of Elverum, Grue, Kongsvinger, Løten, Nord-Odal, Stage, South Odal, Våler and Åsnes. Westmarka was proposed as a landscape protection area in the State Nature Conservation Council on proposals for the National Park Plan in 1986 but was in St.meld. 62 for 1991-1992. The government did not propose to protect the West as a landscape protection area, but that the Westmark should be secured as a large coherent forest area without any technical intervention other than that resulting from forestry. This meant that the State would not protect the area through the use of the 1970 Nature Conservation Act, but that the area would be protected by the Law on Planning and Building and Forest Law. The majority joined the government's assessments in handling the matter. In connection with the municipal planning processes in the nine municipalities concerned, there was a desire to build more cabins in the western part of the country. It is a common understanding that the West Mark is a common good and that the area must be managed from a common and a long-term perspective. The initiative was designed to develop common guidelines for the use and protection of the Westmarks, first as an inter-municipal plan, later as a regional plan, since the municipalities were unable to become some of the guidelines. The county of Hedmark rented that work, and seven of the municipalities took part in the work with the County of Hedmark. The result of the work was a compromise proposal, which focused on the maintenance of the resource that seats and forest houses represent, that it is opened for the further development of existing cabins to a total of 100 m2 of developed land, and that it is opened for the fortification of a total of 65 cabins in 11 defined cabin areas in Våler, Åsnes and Grue municipalities. The guidelines also allow for a certain extension of the Travel Life Facility at Nogarn. In addition, it shall be possible to set up buildings and facilities supporting an environmentally friendly sport and outdoor life. The plan of guidelines, on which a multiple number has been agreed, shows that it is a wish that the Westmark should also be a large and coherent forest area for the future. It is agreed that sustainable forestry based on multi-purpose and open-air life is the most important activity, but also that it should be possible to build a more gentle cabin in parts of the area. I mean the county council, in cooperation with a majority of the municipalities concerned, by approving 65 new cabins has come up with a good distribution between use and expansion and taking care of the outdoor and natural values. It also complies with the National Park Plan. It has not been up to me to change the instructions made by the Storting in the management of the National Park Plan. The scope of ‘reliable’ means managing something from a long-term perspective, and the Ministry therefore advised that the guidelines should apply for 40 years. The Ministry of the Environment has taken this into account when we had the plan of assessment from Hedmark County, and therefore do not support the objections of Åsnes and Våler municipalities. The County of Hedmark adopted the regional plan on 18 September 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e710	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. Now we don't quite agree on what a gentle expansion can be. It is clear that for those municipalities that want to invest a little more in tourism and tourism in an area where jobs and income are relatively marginal, this would have been a very good solution for many. It would give revenue to the forest owners, it would give revenues to those who build cabins, and it would also give ring-effects to gas stations, shops, etc., etc. Obviously, this is nothing new. For example: Trysil, as we're talking about here, it's a very gentle extension. We believe that 65 cabins are far too small. Nor do we want many cabins, but a moderate extension, as it says. Therefore, I would have liked the Council of State to have looked at it a little bit with moderate expansion – as we wish – or gentle expansion, so that we are allowed to expand something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e715	I'm assuming that this has been a work done by the county council, County Council and seven of the municipalities involved, where a person himself has come up with a proposal that means that you call a gentle, or if you want, moderate, expansion. It seems to me that it balances the direction of development towards the care of the outdoors and the natural values in a good way, and I therefore consider it a proposal that I do not want to intervene in. It is also approved on 18 September this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e720	I would like to thank the Council of State for a reply. This is, if I remember correctly, a matter that has been going on since 1991 – for 21 years. Clearly, this is an area of relatively poor forest. It throws relatively little of itself, and it grows slowly, so that for the forest owners in the area it has been of the utmost importance that you could use the forest and these areas in a slightly more commercial way. Actually, this is a great area with lots of water, some rivers and fine touring grounds, and no one wants to destroy that quality. There are two municipalities – Åsnes and Våler – that strongly want to use this area for business development, and it is mostly on behalf of those I am talking about now. But I also see the whole of this, that tourism and tourism can be something to bet on in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e727	I mean, as I said, the wholeness here is well preserved through a work with nine municipalities involved and the county council, and if it's right that this has been going on for 21 years, we're extra happy that there's now a final decision in the county of Hedmark on 18 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e736	The question goes to the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the game of prey it shall be called: ‘It shall not be predators representing a potential for damage in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and the calving area for domestic animals’. Central areas of southern Sámi tamarein drift in the North Tribute layer still have large and increasing losses to predatory game due to large populations of bear, yerv, gloupe and king eagle. Large parts of the domestic calving areas are located within the predatory game area as a result of today’s management plan. What has the Ministry of the Environment done to meet this point in the Robbery Agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e745	I know the abduction game deal very well, because I was one of those who signed the representative proposal that was the basis for this in Stortinget. As the representative refers to, point 2.2.19 of the 2011 Arbitration Agreement: ‘It shall not be predators representing a harmful potential in the priority grazing area of domestic animals and the calving area of domestic animals’. This implies that in the priority grazing area for domestic animals and the calving area of domestic animals, a low threshold for the permission to take off wild game is to be practised in order to prevent damage to domestic animals and domestic animals. It is important that predators take account of the loss situation and are geographically specific in the allocation of allowances. The calving zone for pure shall be given priority both by decision on exceptional indemnification in the event of emergency damage and by ordinary killing regimes, such as licensing and quota hunting. I am aware that the South Sami domestic operations are facing major challenges related to predatory game, and it is challenging to find good loss prevention measures that do not conflict with traditional reindeer operations. Purgatory is run over large areas, for example being almost the entire North-Trunde layer of reindeer grazing area. This is challenging for the predatory game subjects, which shall prioritise between the grazing area and the predatory game area in their management plans. Several sites will overlap between the priorities of the area for relatively predatory game and domestic practices. The calving areas include areas of reindeer pastures. If you want to distinguish between calving areas and the other areas in the management plan, the predatory areas will be very fragmented. Because the predators use large areas, this would be very unfortunate for the total loss. In such areas, good preventive measures will be necessary for the reduction of losses caused by predatory game. In a report to the Ministry of the Environment on southern Sami domestic operations in the north of Trundelag, a group of experts shows that there is a great need for knowledge in reindeer operations. There are considerable differences in losses that can be difficult to explain with predatory game alone. In order to gain a greater knowledge base and more precise management with lower loss targets, in 2011, the Ministry launched a research project in central Norway, where a study of the production of reindeer and the loss of reindeer to glope and yerv. In 2011, it was set at 2 million. SEK and 3.5 million in 2012. kr to this project. The government has proposed to continue the project at the same level next year, plus an increase of 2 million. kr for research, among others royal eagle and southern samonic domestic reindeer. In addition, the government has proposed to increase the government's natural resources by 4.3 million. kr to strengthen resources, among others. in the case of the killing of predatory game. There have been withdrawals in the North Trøndelag through exceptional cutting regimes as well as exceptional off-takes. After several years of high quotas, the population of gaupe has been reduced and is currently roughly on the stock target both nationally and regionally for Central Norway. It is expected that even high licensing quotas on you will gradually reduce the stock of the herd against the stock target. Based on the knowledge we have about the land use of the predatory game species, one can expect that it will also have an effect on the calving area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e769	I thank you for your answer. There's no doubt that the predatory situation in the North Trøndelag is dramatic. There are documented eight young ones of yours – that should be four. There's eleven young globs of globs -- there's six. There is a lot of evidence that the royal eagle population may be twice as large as it should be. In addition, in the case of bears, there are two young people — up to four. The Council of State must also see that this has dramatic consequences both for the grazing industry and for the south-samian domestic industry. In Luru's reindeer pastures, they have gathered clean to slaughter the last week, and with a flock of 1,000 animals, 300 animals have been slaughtered – now 96 animals have been slaughtered. Without the extraordinary losses, this herd was to be 1 400 animals, and 500 to 600 animals could be slaughtered — instead of 96 animals, which had been slaughtered. This is very dramatic. What will the Council of State do in a concrete way to reduce the total predatory game load for the South Saami tambourine operation in the North Trøndelag?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e780	Let me just say first that the stock status of gaupe and youv in the last year we have numbers from is that the number is slightly above the stock destination regionally, but not as much over the years before. Especially for globs, it's smaller numbers, and it's the same thing nationally. So for globs, we've been closed in getting the number down to the goal. As I went through in my answer, we are working on implementing measures to achieve the same for you. It is because it is important that when we have stock targets, we must manage in line with it – nationally and as much as possible regionally as possible. So I went through in my answer that we also implement a lot of measures specifically directed at the region and the problems associated with the calving area of tamrein, not least to gain more knowledge. We also have a pretty big boost for the predatory game area on my budget for next year, with 22 million. kr extra collect sets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e787	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that the predatory populations of the North Tribes in these calving areas are about twice as large as they should be. It has dramatic consequences, especially in relation to the loss of calves. A reindeer who is part of the NINA project on production and losses before reindeer operations indicates that only 60 pst. of the sims had calf in July. In October it was reduced to 30 pst. This has a major impact on farmed animals, as well as a dramatic impact on the economy. In the prey agreement, point 2. 2.8, it is called: ‘The necessary measures shall be implemented both within the framework of predator management and reindeer management with a view to ensuring the situation of South Saami domestic reindeer operation.’;» The county council of Nord-Trøndelag has presented a sketch for the predatory game subject where he proposes to change today's youth zone and relocate and concentrate the presence of bears, yerv and globe in Inner Namdal – in the middle of the most important calving area. My question is, what will the Council of State do to prevent this from happening, and to ensure southern tamre drift, as is stated in the Robbery Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e803	As I said, we're doing a lot to take this challenge very seriously. The core problem is that operating with domestic trains is land-requiring, right – a drive with it mostly in the whole state. Having predators is also land-requiring. It's counterproductive to take care of both. Thus, a measure must be implemented where it can be handled in the best possible way. That's why we've invested a lot of money in research and getting knowledge of it. We work with various preventive measures. But perhaps most importantly, we are working to bring the populations down to what is the goal of the population also regionally. Just to take the numbers that I have, the last number that we have for gaupe in 2012, is 14 – and the goal is 12. We've got it down significantly to the goal of survival.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e812	‘In the light of the Commission’s report of 22 July on the importance of operational police helicopters, we have now had two available helicopters since the summer of 2012. To what extent do helicopters have the ability to communicate with the police and other emergency services when the helicopters are in service, is there coverage of emergency networks in the air or operate them over the mobile network or other, and if such connection solutions do not exist today, what plans does the Council of State have to put this in place?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e819	Emergency communication is given considerable attention, and not least after 22 July last year. Safe and good communication is central to good crisis management, and therefore billions of investments have been made by the government through the emergency network project. This is being rolled out, and nationwide it will be in place by the end of 2015. This is an important question, and when the representative Schou asks how the police helicopters also use the emergency network, I can tell you that there is built coverage for emergency networks in the air, so-called Air-Ground-Air base stations. The police now have two helicopters. Both the helicopter owned by the police themselves and the helicopter hired have emergency radio and the ability to communicate with the ground police via the emergency network. As is known, the emergency network is used in the police districts of Eastfold, Follo, Oslo, Romerike, Asker and Bærum and Søndre Buskerud. According to the plan, the whole country will be covered by emergency networks by the end of 2015, as I mentioned. Rescue voice groups and cooperative voice groups are available on both helicopters’ radios so that they can communicate with the other emergency networks and other users. In districts where the emergency network is not developed, the police helicopter service uses existing analogue links. The government proposes to grant 10 million. kr for the maintenance and upgrading of police operational equipment in the police helicopter in 2013. In addition, some of the equipment shall also be upgraded to the reserve helicopter for a period in 2013. Top modern and secure connectivity solutions are important to ensure our most operational strengths good connectivity solutions at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e828	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The fact that the emergency network is functioning is the groundwork for the sense of security for people and for those working within the emergency room when they are on missions that require this preparedness. I wish I could have been reassured by the Council of State's answers. There are several issues – firstly, why was there no emergency network coverage for helicopters part of the original emergency network offer both for ambulance helicopters and for the police? The fact that the mobile network does not work in Oslo because of the fact that there are too many base stations at once also indicates that the mobile phone actually capitulates. Operation in emergency situations is also not by those interviewed in the Commission’s 22nd July report. That's what their leaders have become. The feedback from the operatives is that over Oslo the police helicopters are deaf and mute. It's taken a long time to solve this problem over Oslo, and that's one of the challenges: it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e839	It is absolutely central that emergency communication must work and that today's analogue solution is very important for good crisis communication across the country. The emergency network provides a safe and secure connection of a completely different quality than today's solutions have so far provided. I understand the impatience that also applies to the questioner when it comes to the development of the emergency network. Today, the emergency network is in place in the Central East. We know that there are major challenges to making the emergency network work as planned, and therefore ongoing remedial action is being taken to ensure that this works as planned. The emergency network is also possible to use from the helicopters, as I explained in my response.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e846	I thank you once again for the answer, but it is still the case that the operatives report that the analogue solutions still have to be used because the emergency network is not working. The fact that the helicopters over Oslo are both deaf and mute is dangerous. That means you don't get on the ground, you don't get on the phone – because there are too many base stations, and you don't get on the regular emergency network that should have been developed. The challenge to the government councils is – and I think it is important to be able to secure the system and further development of the emergency network – that both management and operational units are brought structured and systematically to the table with those building up in the directorate, so that we get the basic wall that provides security both for the population and for the employees within these agencies, and that the points they point out are heard and done with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e853	I fully agree with the questioner's approach to user involvement. The police helicopter service has had some problems with the TETRA connection, but I have been informed that this has now been resolved. It is also important to see how helicopters today — in addition to the emergency network — make use of analogue communications and can communicate with all police units on the ground. Both rescue helicopters have a rescue duct and are thus able to communicate with other emergency and rescue stations. Through that rescue channel, police helicopters may also communicate with other rescue helicopters. A portable set of analogue connections is also installed in the lease helicopter. Here a new set will also be installed during the upgrade, which will be done in the next year. Then it will give the same installed equipment in both helicopters. So I can make sure that we have this under very careful observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e864	‘The government has encouraged people to buy diesel cars, but when many have bought it, they meet with possible driving bans in the winter due to. local pollution. Synthetic diesel produced from natural gas can cut the level of local pollution. Natural gas, used as a fuel, does not pay a road tax, but when it is adapted to diesel engines, it is chosen to cover a fee. Will the government review its charging policy to stimulate the use of more environmentally friendly diesel rather than have driving bans as the main instrument for winter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e871	It's not right that the government has encouraged people to buy diesel cars. What the government did in 2007 — and which received support from all parties in Stortinget — was to introduce a CO2 component into the one-off fee. As a result, some diesel cars received a significant fee reduction, but it is a different matter. What has happened since 2007 is that this conversion of charges has contributed to a strong reduction in CO2 emissions from new cars, and we are continuing that policy at the latest in the 2013 budget proposal. With the introduction of a NOx component from this year onwards, local emissions are also taken into account in the one-off charge. We now see that there are more and more cars on the market that have both low CO2 emissions and low NOx emissions. These car types sell better in Norway than in most other countries, and it is important that the government’s charging policy stimulates further such developments. Then it is that the so-called user charge on fuel should cover the total external costs that driving imposes on society, in the form of accidents, queues, pollution, road wear, etc. Local pollution represents only a small proportion of these costs and therefore local emissions cannot justify a general exemption from the user charge. In the 2012 government budget, the government announced a switch to a more general user charge, and by 2020 all fuels are subject to an energy user charge. The exceptions currently in force shall be terminated within that period. A derogation from synthetic diesel would therefore be a step in the opposite direction. It is true that synthetic diesel produces slightly lower local emissions than normal diesel, but there is considerable uncertainty as to how much this reduction actually is. In order to reduce local pollution, local authorities themselves should have the possibility of introducing measures adapted to the situation in their local authorities. The government has opened up the possibility for municipalities to introduce cow pricing in metropolitan areas with challenges related to queues and local pollution. The Government has not proposed the imposition of a driving ban on diesel cars in the event of large local pollution, as is also suggested in the issue. On the other hand, municipalities have the right to introduce this in emergency situations and in periods of large local pollution. I believe that the government's policy of converting car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction has been correct. It has helped to ensure that we now have a regulatory framework that stimulates the purchase of climate-friendly and environmentally friendly cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e899	The problem with the government's arguments is that one adapts them to the individual case, and how one should try to get out of the whole world itself, rather than having some general principle underpinning, which both consumers and businesses can relate to. This government cuts improperly in the taxes on diesel cars, and the predecessor of today's finance minister said that more people would buy diesel cars, so the government knew very well what it did. The issue of possible driving bans is now a consequence of the policy pursued by the government, and is still in fact driving, but there have been several diesel cars on the roads. When, in addition, the government expands the home to have a driving ban, it is technically right that it is not the government that introduces it, but it puts all the means in place to ensure that it is what is to be used locally. The progress party seems more sensible rather to reduce the fee on the environmentally friendly alternatives so that people can still get to and from work, to and from kindergarten, to and from school with their car rather than having to park it and start cycling in winter. That is why I ask again: will one not also try to use the charging policy positively over the consumption policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e908	The last thing is exactly what the government is doing, and that's essentially what the whole point is, and that was the point of the conversion, that is. introducing a CO2 component in the one-off charge in 2007. The main point was to have a charging policy that encouraged people to buy more environmentally friendly cars. This has been a very successful policy if you look at the total emissions of new cars in 2007 and what is now the case. So that kind of policy we're going to keep going. We will continue to use the charging system in general, so that we can promote a more environmentally friendly car park. We also announced in the state budget for the current year that it is important that we have a predictable charging policy, and therefore we have also set this special target linked up to 2020, which I had in mind in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e918	It is the CO2 component, i.e. the desire to cut CO2 emissions, which has been fundamental to the entire tax policy that the government has now led to. But it has created problems in other areas that actually have a local environmental pollution effect that means that one ends up having to use driving bans as an instrument. So the government's CO2 policy creates asthma and allergy problems locally, and that should be equally important. But how is one to deal with this in a practical way? Yes, it is very good that new diesel cars to be sold in the future have lower emissions than today's diesel cars, but it is still such that today's diesel cars on average will be on the road for another ten years. Then we cannot pursue driving ban policies for ten years, the Progress Party thinks. We would rather make sure that those who use diesel cars can get a fuel that eliminates the problem, not that they have to stop using the car that they have purchased at the request of the government. So for the third time, will the government use diesel charging policy – and ensure that synthetic diesel becomes an attractive alternative – instead of driving bans?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e936	It's important in this context, as in several other contexts, to think in large and small terms. Overall, it is important that one has a charging policy that ensures that CO2 emissions from the car fleet are reduced. This is done through the tax policy on which the government has committed itself. Then you also have to have a look at the room. The NOx component, now introduced into the single-use system, also addresses the local challenge. In addition, it is important that municipalities have the opportunity to decide for themselves on days when there is extreme pollution, so that they can take special measures. I think, for example, that a measure with cow pricing would have a positive impact on the environment. Then we have seen that there are important municipalities that – and now I look at the Council of State Giske, because it is his municipality of residence – have invested heavily in public transport, so one has to be able to see more actions in the context. Otherwise, the synthetic diesel, as the representative Solvik-Olsen talks about, is actually a product based on hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e957	«Simplification work has led to the removal of the audit obligation for small companies and the reduction of the requirement for limited liability companies in newly created limited liability companies. In addition, electronic registration of new companies, electronic invoice and simplification have been introduced in the Accounting Act and Securities Act. All of this is good and something left has worked too long. However, both the NHO and the Business Federation believe that the government lacks a comprehensive strategy. Can the Council of State understand this criticism?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e964	I understand that business is impatient after reaching the goal that the government has set that 10 billion. kr shall be simplified away by 2016. We want companies to spend as little time as possible on administrative tasks, and we have set the goal of making a historic cut in the administrative costs of Norwegian business. Several important simplification measures have been implemented or adopted. Overall, savings are approaching 3 billion. kr. The audit obligation for small companies has been removed, the requirement for limited liability companies in newly created limited liability companies has been reduced and registration of new companies has been simplified. The government has launched simplifications in bookkeeping laws and securities laws. Digitalisation contributes to simplification, including, inter alia: electronic invoice, electronic tax card and electronic reporting in case of search messages. In order to follow up and reinforce the simplification work, a separate project has been set up under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which will work systematically on the achievement of the Government's simplification objectives, coordinate cooperation between departments and, not least, obtain input from businesses and business organisations. One of the main tasks of this project is precisely dialogue with industry and its organisations. In our meetings with the NHO and the Business Federation, the measures implemented are positive, but have good constructive input into what can be done further to achieve the simplification objective. There is an overall plan that underpins the work. It's close follow-up from political leadership. Measures will be decided on in the future, and we will achieve the objective of providing great savings for business. To the question of whether we have an overall strategy, I mean, yes, we do. We have already put forward a number of measures that contribute to simplification, and we come up with new measures as they have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e979	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The website simpler.no was established one year ago. That's good. But both the NHO and the Business Association believe that little has happened since. They are calling for a detailed timetable and better cooperation, despite what the Council of State is saying here now. One of the most important proposals from these two is retention obligations with regard to annexes. Something could have been done about it immediately, they say. There could also have been some simplification of the Share Act and the Accounting Act. Is this something the Council of State will be looking at immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e984	The representative Tenden now mentions things that we've been told about from business organisations. Both keeping obligations and looking at stock laws, accounting laws, accounting laws and other laws are an important part of the work we do. Then we must never forget that all the rules and requirements that we have, for some reason, came for a good purpose. This could be e.g. environmental considerations, of which I know the Tendence Party is concerned, or there may be tax evasions or ecocrime considerations underpinning legislation. So much of the simplification work is about weighing these considerations against each other, maybe finding better and smarter ways to get information, or doing things electronically maybe just once a year instead of many times to different agencies. It's this systematic work we're now doing, and we're going to continuously implement the results of it when the different measures are clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e989	I thank you again for the answer, and hope that things go faster after this questioning. I also get some feedback that especially in the area of innovation, entrepreneurship, the need for simplification is great. Many entrepreneurs dare not report on this, because they are afraid that they will be punished afterwards by not obtaining the appropriations they may be entitled to and need. Most of them are red tape at a critical time in the business cycle, it is said. Is this something the Council of State is familiar with? And in that case, can he do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e996	I think it's important to stress that our simplification project is about the whole life cycle of the company, it's about small, medium-sized and large enterprises, it's about all the public agencies that companies meet, but it's also about, for example, the business. a simple guide, organisation, for start-ups, how to register in the Brønn Island Health Registers – simply simplify everyday life for entrepreneurs, for new entrants, but also for existing companies. So our message both to the Storting and to business actors is that the recordings we get can be about anything about this public bureaucracy that companies meet, or other things that make it easier to start up, run and succeed in business. Here we take with the full range of activities in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1005	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Many people experience that it takes a long time to get proper diagnosis and effective treatment for Lyme disease after tick bites. The Health Directorate prepared in 2009 a report recommending the diagnosis and treatment of tick diseases. However, in the years following the report, new knowledge has emerged in the field and some patients have become healthy with methods that are not recommended by health authorities. What does the Council of State do to ensure up-to-date knowledge of diagnostics and treatment in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1014	I would like to thank the representative Solberg for asking this question, a question that I have also received in many contexts these weeks I have been Minister of Health. The number of reported Lyme disease cases varies from year to year. This applies not only in Norway but also in other Nordic countries. In 2010, 288 new cases were notified to the Public Health Institute, which is responsible for such notifications. Since the early 1990s, this has been recorded as a contagious disease. The highest incidence was in coastal areas on both sides of the outer Oslofjord, Telemark and Agder counties. So it's important to stress this: the Health Directorate highlights that the risk of being infected by fleet bites is small, even in the most vulnerable areas. Most people who get sick from tick bites are treated by their doctor and, fortunately, become completely healthy after treatment. In some cases, the condition may be more complicated and hospitalisation may be required. Several specialists would like to be involved, in particular those with special competence in microbiological diagnosis, infectious diseases and diseases of the nervous system. There are 17 medical microbiological laboratories carrying out disease diagnosis. Southern hospitals have a reference function in this area and assist other laboratories if necessary. As a professional health standardisation authority, the Health Directorate shall at all times ensure that knowledge of diagnostics and treatment is up-to-date. It also applies in the field of Lyme disease. The Health Directorate assesses the overall competence currently available in this area as satisfactory, but follows the case on an ongoing basis. The report on the diagnosis and treatment of fleet diseases, to which the representative refers, was drawn up in cooperation with the main professional communities and patient organisations in this field. The Directorate for Health has issued recommendations on action to regional health enterprises, to the municipalities of the country and to the county councillors. Good cooperation between professional settings at hospitals is important in providing good diagnostics and treatment. Exchanges of new knowledge tend to take place through professional networks, where results from international research are also disseminated. The current practice needs to be able to change when good effects of new methods have been demonstrated. We have to be open to new knowledge at all times. I am familiar with examples of patients with Lyme disease who have experienced improvement using methods that are currently not recognised in Norwegian disciplines. Several such methods can be promising. For the time being, an additional demonstration of efficacy is needed before the methods are recommended. I don't have a background to assess different treatments medically, but on a general basis, I want to give full support to the professional communities in their work to provide better disease treatment. It is my experience that our professional environments are closely associated with and contribute to the development of new test methods and treatment. Exchange of knowledge and increased attention in the field will help to ensure that patients who are infected by fleets are safe to be taken care of according to the latest up-to-date knowledge in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1033	I think most people will agree that for those who have a proven fleet bite and who quickly come to treatment, the knowledge today is up-to-date, and the treatment works well. But then there is a large group of patients who experience a non-discovered fleet bite, but experience delayed effects and typical indications within an area that is occasionally diagnosed as ME, sometimes as fibromyalgia and sometimes as Lyme disease. The diagnostics currently used in Norwegian hospitals have large sources of error. It has been assessed by many teams as an underdiagnosis of this type of disease, and therefore no treatment is given. My question to the Council of State is whether he wants to deal actively with, for example: to start research on better diagnostic methods, but also on treatment methods, which are not currently within the range recommended — experimental treatment with other methods could contribute to new knowledge — and not only wait for it to come from professional environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1040	I would like to answer yes to that question: I want to deal actively with it. I have, on the basis of the representative's questions and also my own questions, because I am meeting this in many contexts, also what the representative Solberg says about the more complex late effects, how direct connection to fleet bits is more unclear, even taking up the question. I've got the impression that the Health Directorate has a focus on this field, focuses on new research and new diagnostics and focuses on improving the methods available to treat this group of patients. So that's what the representative says, that some complex relationships arise in diagnostics -- what's the cause of what, what's the background for patients to experience different disorders? I think, as the representative says, that here we need more research and more knowledge before we as non-medical professionals can draw conclusions. But we focus on that, and I hope that in a short time we can also report back that we have even better knowledge and even better diagnostics to propose to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1047	I think this is an area where some myths are also established. Within these three disease groups, which are related, at least in the symptoms, it has become a rather controversial discussion of what is psychologically dependent and what is not psychologically dependent. It also causes an extra strain on many of these patients, who actually feel sick, but who feel that they are being explained out in the health care system. This is an area where there is little research; it is little challenge. Then, in my opinion, it is also a greater political responsibility to raise these kinds of issues within the research world by providing earmarked funds. So when I'm glad that the Council of State says that he will deal actively with this, I also hope that we can see it actively in the form of priorities in the years to come, which means that we can lift the diagnosis and the methods for it, but also research into treatments, which means that more people can actually get a viable life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1054	I believe that both the representative and I have experienced that the discussion about treatment forms and what was the origin of part of them – let's say – the modern cases, for example. ME, to which it was referred, is obsessed with a lot of controversy, strong feelings for natural reasons. I've been busy since I came to the Ministry of Health, that we need to get better knowledge in these fields, and we need to be able to approach the knowledge search with lowered shoulders and with open eyes. One of the challenges is to find the right input to research into this, so that we have good research environments and a good research base that can actually create projects that give us knowledge. I can confirm that I have a focus on this, and I hope I can respond again to the representative on a later occasion that we are starting projects, and that we can help provide the people who are experiencing this, challenging answers and better knowledge for treatment as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1065	‘In the evening post of 18 October, it appears that Oslo University Hospital lacks professionals after office hours to receive children who are victims of violence and sexual assault. How will the Council of State ensure that children exposed to violence and sexual abuse in Norway are provided with the necessary assistance when they are needed, meet competent professionals and have the necessary forensic examinations carried out in all the health regions of the country?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1072	Violence and abuse against children affect us all. It's shocking to hear about children who are subjected to physical violence and sexual assault. As a society, we must fight this problem – prevent and keep those who commit such abuses responsible. As Minister of Health and Welfare, my mission is clear: the health service should have the competence to care for the children seeking help. The children shall meet with care and support and receive the necessary examinations and treatment. This also includes forensic documentation, including track securing. Health South-East has informed me that Oslo University Hospital has a professionally strong social pediatric section, which has a well-developed offer for children who are subjected to violence and other abuses. The hospital also accepts children from other hospital areas and partly has a regional function for these children. There has been a significant increase in the number of children at risk of assault coming to the hospital in recent years. I'm made aware that Oslo University Hospital now finds it natural to review its procedures for receiving this group. Among other things, emphasis shall be placed on increasing the knowledge among other paediatric patients who receive these children when those who are specialised in the care of a children’s ward. My impression is that all hospitals with children's wards are concerned with caring for children who are subjected to violence and sexual assault. It really follows from their motivation and the work they have. These offers are organised differently, based on local conditions. Norway is a long way off with partially dispersed settlements. It is therefore not possible to have separate watch arrangements at all children’s wards 24 hours a day, with special offers for children who are subjected to violence. The challenges are particularly evident in scattered areas, such as: in Finnmark, where the only children's ward is in Hammerfest. However, this does not prevent children, regardless of when and where they were to report to the Norwegian health care system, from being well and safely received at all times. In areas with a long distance from the children’s ward, cooperation agreements between the local health service and hospitals may be relevant to provide the necessary skills. Any doctor must be aware of the fact that the injury may be the result of abuse in dealing with an injured child. It is important for children that they are examined and handled in the best possible way. In addition, it is essential to ensure evidence. Responsibility for ensuring that hospitals provide a good professional offer lies with regional health companies. In the mission papers of the regional health companies for 2013, I will demand broad training and good practice for staff who are in contact with sick children who may have been subjected to abuse. The study of children exposed to violence and abuse is part of the training of child doctors. Let me end by saying that I agree with the clinic director of the Women's and Children's Hospital at Oslo University Hospital, Terje Rootwelt, when he says that all hospitals that receive children in this situation should ensure that the hospital has clear and up-to-date written procedures and organized investigation equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1091	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, I am not quite convinced that we are able to give the children what they are entitled to offer, and I am concerned that the legal security of young children is unfortunately not guaranteed as it should. This is true in the health service, but not least in the police and justice services, because not all children come to the children’s homes, among others. Recently, an evaluation report from Nordic research was submitted, which found serious findings. There was an evaluation of the offenders, such as shows that in rape cases the evidence disappears because the quality of the offenders is too poor. The forensic commission points out that 20-25 pst. of the statements written are so poor that it is difficult to use them further in the forensic work. How will the Minister of Health ensure that the findings of the evaluation report are now being followed up and that action is taken to improve the effectiveness of the respondents?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1098	The question illustrates that this is a field that covers several disciplines and that we need to address from several teams – not least in the reception of those who have been subjected to rape and sexual abuse, and in the specialist healthcare service. I've explained what's the situation and the type of work in the hospitals, and what's going to be my instructions to the hospitals for 2013, where we're going to emphasize that both knowledge, training and equipment to deal with these very demanding situations are being improved, and that there's going to be a awareness of what it requires. Now my impression is that children who have experienced injuries and suspected abuse, abuse and sexual abuse are met with care in Norwegian hospitals. That's the case whenever it had to happen in the daytime. Whether we can ensure that all competencies are available 24 hours a day, it is difficult for me to stand here from the Storting Chair and say, but that the awareness is high in hospitals that patients should be received in a good way and given rapid treatment, I feel secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1105	With regard to the evaluation report from the Nordic Research Centre on Infringement Recipients, the NRC was able to tell yesterday that most of the receptions are unable to provide sufficient assistance to those who have been subjected to violence. The NRK could also say that the statements are simply so bad that they cannot be used for further work. It is quite serious, and it threatens the legal security of violent people. I want the Minister of Health to specifically tell how the government intends to address the findings of the evaluation report. What's the time horizon? What will be done to ensure that victims of violence and abuse in Norway receive the assistance they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1112	I have given some answers on how victims of this type of assault get help in hospitals. That's one part of the answer. Now I am not familiar with the content of the evaluation report to which the representative refers, so I can do nothing but say that I will take that question with me and make sure that those who are responsible and we who are responsible include these findings when we follow up in this area. What I've been busy communicating is that my impression is that at the country's hospital there is a high awareness of these issues. We should be sure that children are well cared for, and – as I said – in 2013 this will be further clarified. I agree with the representative that with regard to the recording of such incidents, this must be done in a way that ensures legal certainty and allows the further treatment system to deal with the first reports. It's important. If an evaluation has shown that it is weak, we need to find suitable ways to address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1127	In October, students at Greåker secondary school have taken up the challenge of developing new, innovative tools so that older people can live longer in their own homes. A group of students want to visit the elderly at home weekly, over three years in high school. The reward is one study score, not money. This will provide practical assistance for the elderly and provide young people with work experience. The business community in Eastfold contributes through Young Entrepreneurship. What will the Council of State do to enable this to become a nationwide and further develop the idea of study credits?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1134	Entrepreneurship is based on creativity and knowledge. Meaningful work creates well-being, and it increases interest in learning. The ability to cooperate is also being developed in a positive way. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Knowledge have developed an action plan, Entrepreneurship in education – from primary to higher education 2009–2014. The aim of this plan is to strengthen the quality and scale of entrepreneurship training at all levels and disciplines of the education system. I think there is a misunderstanding in the question itself, because there are no credits in secondary education. There are students in higher education who get their study credits. But I expect that what's up for discussion here is that someone wants you to get extra points – which are important for admission to higher education – if you choose entrepreneurship in such a form. Today we give extra points only in real science and language, and at this point I have no plans to increase the scope of the possibility of extra points. Some of the points of extra points get lost if you use them in a lot of areas at the same time. But I would strongly encourage the choice of entrepreneurship as a method, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that entrepreneurship and business development are a programme subject of higher education in the field of study-specific education. This means that the nature of the subject is the basis for calculating the points for admission to higher education. That programme subject may also be chosen by vocational training students if it is offered by the school. By setting up a youth enterprise for the benefit of older people, to which the questioner refers, the youth learns – in a different way from today – the daily, reality and practical context of the subject. It is very positive that high school students use entrepreneurship in their training.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1145	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and also thank you for the idea that Hanna, Mina, Camilla, Maryama and Amanda have come up with, because that is their idea, and it is very positive to further develop innovative solutions for everyday life. We know that there are more older people, because we live longer. That's good, but we also know that unfortunately there are more people who experience solitude. There are different studies, but I've seen that between 20 pst. and 50 pst. of our elderly people respond that they experience solitude during the week. I hear the Council's response not to want to open up additional points in this area now. But I want to challenge the Council of State on what advice the Minister of Knowledge has for these girls on their further innovative path with this idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1154	I think it's very positive that students take the initiative themselves, and I realize that that's the background to this question. They are probably taking the initiative not only in the interest of actually being useful and making a difference for older people, who may be in a somewhat lonely situation or need more visitation, but perhaps also in the interest of their own learning. It's instructive, really. I would like to encourage you to see the possibility of using the method of entrepreneurship, make sure that you have that programme subject of choice or demand it as an option in your secondary school, and then you can create content based on what I and they have thought. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we now have an electoral profession in high school, and one of the choices is already today about the possibility of creating e.g. a student enterprise and provide services to the elderly in the neighbourhood. We also consider expanding with another electoral subject in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1163	I thank you once again for the answers of the Council of State. The Council of State said in its first response to the undersigned that in real science and language there are additional points and that the Council of State does not at present wish to open up. But in a longer-term perspective, with the challenges we face in society with older people, is this something that the Council of State and Government can consider at a later stage, possibly as a pilot project?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1170	To be completely honest, I'm very skeptical that we're going to let inflation go into extra points. We're giving extra money for real science, because we want more students to choose to go deeper into real science. We also do it for some languages, because we see that we lack competence in these languages. As far as entrepreneurship is concerned, there is a programme area that I hope most students can choose from at their school. Then they will have a character in the subject that counts when they are admitted to higher education. My wish is also that we can make this a quite extensive subject as both the interest of schools and students around this increases. If you do a good job in that subject, you have a good character with it too. I don't want to go further with that idea at this point, but I just strongly encourage that there are opportunities here to combine society's needs with their own learning. It's very rewarding and something I want a greater spread of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1185	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The guidelines for the administration of royal crab were given in St.meld. No 40 [[2006-2007]] Where in the loop are the Councils of State in the evaluation work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1194	The Royal Crab Storting Message was addressed by Stortinget on 3 March 2008 and new regulations came into force as of season 2008/2009. We aim to carry out an evaluation that alerted when the regulations have worked for five seasons, i.e. after the current year of regulation for royal crabs that last until 31 July 2013. At the same time, on the management side, we carry out an annual thorough review of the regulations in the fisheries for king crabs. In advance of a new regulatory year, regulatory proposals shall be submitted at written consultation and all recordings shall be evaluated before the regulation is established. In this context, it may be mentioned that in 2010 we found it necessary to adjust the border between the quota area and the areas for free fishing, such as: has contributed to a more targeted capture of king crabs west of North Cape – where it is agreed that this crab is undesirable. We have also financed a system of price subsidies on female crabs and small crabs in the west to stimulate increased catchment. But as I said, we aim for the main evaluation to take place after five regulatory years with the scheme presented in the Storing Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1207	I thank you for your answer. As the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs knows from written questions by the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen on 17 August this year, fishermen in Másøy have come into a blunder because they cannot participate in commercial fishing. The distinction is perceived as artificial and unfair because fishermen in neighbouring municipalities have a completely different income base and thus more legs to stand on. There are two different administrations of the same population in the same region. Today, eight to ten fishermen have moved or are planning to leave the municipality of Måsøy in order to pursue their profession elsewhere. Ingalill Olsen, a staging representative and head of the Finnmark Arbeiderparti, said to Finnmark Dagblad on 12 September this year: ‘Management is the beginning of the closure of the coastal fleet in the municipality. I'm concerned about the evolution that happens as a result of the Royal Cancer Administration. Coastal fishermen move, and Másøy has difficulty recruiting fishermen.» Is the Council of State in agreement with the concerns expressed here by her party trap, Ingarill Olsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1221	The representative Olli is absolutely right that we have two different administrations of the royal crab. The Stortinget has decided that we should have. We have a business administration, and then we have a government that aims at at least limiting the prevalence of king crabs as much as possible. One can, of course, discuss whether one has succeeded in that, but at least the reports I have received so far indicate that the prevalence of royal crabs has fallen into the area where we want it to go down. So it's always hard to draw lines on a map. It will be almost whatever you want to regulate, and at least in this case, where we see that those who are so lucky that they live on the right side of the line have good incomes that provide a good basis for their fishing activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1228	I am a little uncertain whether the Council answered my question, but I must say that I am not reassured by the answer. So far, as I said, eight fishermen have either moved or are talking about moving. This has negative consequences, not only for fishermen and their families, but because they also bring cod quotas, there will be less access to fish for industry. Of course, jobs in the municipality and society as a whole will also be affected. Then my question is, what will the Council of State actually do for these fishermen who, today, are unable to participate in the commercial king-fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1237	As I said in my answer, there is consensus and there is a decision in the Storting on the regulation and management of the royal crab. Of course, I will follow that. Anything else would have been mildly eye-catching. Then we're going to evaluate after the season we're now on our way into, in line with what was adopted. Then, in his first supplementary question, the representative, Olli, will refer to the representative, Ingelill Olsen, and her statement. Yes, I can assure you that in addition to the interview to which it was referred, the representative Ingelill Olsen has taken this question with me. I have a great deal of understanding of the desire to be on the right side of the line, I have no problem with that, even in relation to the dependence in the municipality of Måsøy on the fisheries. I have visited Havøysund twice, so I am very well acquainted with it. But as I said, now we're going to evaluate, and then we're going to go through, and then we're going to get back to how next year's regulation is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1249	The question is: ‘Express buses are an important part of the transport offer between parts of the country and regions. The express buses are user-funded, and users experience the offer as well and the prices as low. The express buses are also an important part of the collective provision in the districts of many places in Norway. The organisation and administration of bus-based public transport in the counties appears to present challenges for cooperation with the express buses. With what measures will the government ensure a continued good expression bus service throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1258	Express buses form an important part of the Norwegian transport service and have had a strong growth from 2 million passengers in 2000 to 5.3 million in 2010. The express buses supplement aeroplanes and trains and serve distances that may exceed 350 km. Measured in seat-kilometres, the offer in 2000 amounted to about 0.6 billion compared to 1.7 billion in 2010. So the increase has been very large. Positive developments have been particularly noticeable in South Norway and the central eastern region, with the largest growth occurring in the period 2001–08. The total express bus line network currently represents 11 000 km versus less than 6000 km in 2000. Since 2003, freedom of establishment has been available for commercial cross-border bus services. The bus industry can set up and operate the routes they think are profitable. In addition, county municipalities may purchase cross-border express bus services from the industry. In the 2013 state budget, the government proposes to set aside 25 million. kr to the public transport subsidy scheme in the districts. At the same time, the scheme is proposed to be extended in order to include measures for coordination between local public transport and express buses. The challenge today is that routes only correspond to each other to a limited extent, resulting in the loss of travel connections and the loss of customers’ access to a coherent collective offer. Improved incentives to county councils with increased focus on route coordination and more efficient hubs can hopefully contribute to strengthening collective provision and perhaps also provide an increased market and income base.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1271	Thanks for the answer. It is true that public transport by road is subject to tenders. That is what the Progress Party believes is good. It is done through an EU directive recommended by this government. The amendments to the Professional Transport Act are based on the EU collective transport regulation adopted by the Stortinget. But there are exceptions in that regulation that apply both to the length of the annual contract value and to the number of kilometres travelled. It opens one of the doors so that the express buses can still be an offer that also strengthens public transport in each state. How will the Council of State specifically strengthen cooperation between the county councils and the express bus operators in order to ensure that the express buses will continue to be released and, in fact, both on and by passengers in the individual counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1280	Firstly, the market for express buses is already liberalised. So one can create bus offers commercially based on what's most profitable. And then, even in the longer term, according to the EU directive, one will have more outsourced competition on other types of regular services locally and in a state-of-the-art manner. The challenge is in a way a bit of coordination between the local offer and the express offer. It is not easy to conceive of concrete measures in addition to the fact that county municipalities have to try to cooperate best with the express bus industry and also to conclude remuneration agreements to ensure cross-border bus routes if necessary. And then the state has also extended its subsidy scheme a little bit in terms of measures for coordination between local public transport and express bus services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1287	A follow-up question for the very last time: will the government make the use of the funds made available more clearly linked to the link between the express bus and the collective offer in each Member State? That's the one. The second is that then the Storting treated Innst. L. No 303 for 2009-2010 on the amendments to the Professional Transport Act in the context of the EU Directive, underlined inter alia: the members of the government parties that ‘have good dialogue with the county councils in order, inter alia, to ensure national objectives of strengthening the express bus offer’. Does the Council of State mean that there has been such a good dialogue? What's the result so far? What do you want to do to allay the concerns of the express bus operators at the moment, so that it is now more difficult to continue the success that the express buses have shown to be so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1296	It is clear that what is in the 2013 state budget will be communicated. However, there is a scheme that is limited to some measures. In principle, the express bus industry operates in a freer market with freedom of establishment, and that must remain the general rule. So I agree that it may be important to look at how to adapt to the future regulatory regime. I think, for example, the fact that not all routes are exposed to competition at the same time, that a gradual process is taking place, will be important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1307	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: "There will be fewer and fewer young farmers. Figures from the Central Statistical Office show that farmers under the age of 40 were down to 7,837 in 2011. This corresponds to a decrease of 56 pst. since 1999. Are the Councils of State satisfied with this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1316	Today we have about 50,000 skilled farmers around the whole of Norway producing food. In addition, there are about 40,000 people working in the food industry, so it is a big and important industry. When we look at the average age of agriculture, it's varied, it's gone up and down over time. When I was a 1-year-old, the average age was higher than it is today, for example. But then it's right, as the representative Bredvold says, that the average age has gone up a little bit in recent years. But then you see that on the larger uses, where there is more active operation is the average age lower, so there have been variations over time. I am dedicated to increasing the recruitment of young people into the industry. If agriculture is to have a future, young people must have an interest in agriculture and the willingness to invest in the sector. But then the authorities must also facilitate the creation of confidence in the future in the industry. This has contributed to the red-green government through a targeted agricultural effort since it joined in 2005. I believe that the overall profitability trend and good industry framework conditions are essential to ensure the good recruitment of young people into the industry. Here the government on several settlements has shown a willingness to do just that. A very important bearer of industry profitability is customs protection, that it is a good and well-functioning customs protection. I expect that the representative of Bredvold is well aware of what the government has proposed, and that if he is concerned about having a positive development in the industry, he also supports the changes related to customs, which are absolutely crucial both for agriculture itself and for our large food industry. When it comes to whether we're going to have youth into Norwegian agriculture or not, we can have a lot of different types of schemes. But the most important thing is that there is predictability around the economy. There are three supports in Norwegian agricultural policy. It is the agricultural agreement that the Progress Party is opposed to. It is customs protection, to which the Progress Party has expressed itself very critically, and it is the role of cooperation, which has a duty of reception and universality throughout Norway. If we are to get young people into the industry, we can put in a lot of targeted measures on the investment side, put in other tools, youth councils, etc., as we do. But it's the carrybars that are crucial to whether we get recruiting. That's why I'm almost a little impressed by the representative of Bredvold, who's so concerned about recruitment, and who's so worried about the end of use, when he himself has been with and suggested cut of 7 488 million. kr in a business contract concluded and, in addition, wishes to weaken the protection of imports. How, then, are we going to be able to strengthen recruitment to Norwegian agriculture if profitability drops?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1331	We agree on one thing at least. It's that this is a great and important industry. But there have never been as few farmers as it is now. There have never been as few agricultural properties as they are now. There has never been as little agricultural area as it is now, and there have never been as many empty farm buildings as it is now. It is not possible to stick under the chair that the average age of the farmers is reasonably high, and that there are fewer and fewer who want to be a farmer. While it was before almost a gift to be a nobleman or a nobleman, it is not like this today. The party of progress and the parties of government have a completely different policy on this matter of agricultural activity. I can't say that I'm impressed by what the red-green government has done over the course of these seven years. It has gone down in all ways, with the exception of the number of empty farms. Then there must be a faulty policy we are pursuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1338	There is too much misrepresentation of reality Per Roar Bredvold now chooses to give, because there is a lot of investment and a lot of power in large parts of Norwegian agriculture, in large parts of Norwegian agriculture and in large parts of Norwegian food industry. But there is no doubt that there are also challenges. One of the main challenges is that Norway is a high-cost country, and that there is generally a very strong wage and cost growth in many sectors. This makes it a special challenge to recruit people into an industry as labour-intensive as agriculture is. That's why we're taking, among other things. the customs procedure we are doing now, in order to ensure predictability and security for those who want to enter the industry. They see that there is a government that will ensure good and safe framework conditions, so that they can have predictability in making their investments in a new feather or in another new building. Then it's absolutely amazing, if Per Roar Bredvold is busy with agriculture, that he wants to cut by 7,400 million. kr in direct transfers, plus customs protection, because then it is not possible to operate economically, no matter how much you are doing in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1343	I thank the Council of State for the answer to this and the previous question. We have, as I said, a completely different policy. We in the Progress Party want to give the individual trader the freedom to run his property in food production. We want a completely different level of taxes and charges. We want it to be okay to operate together. It should be okay if a farmer wants a different type of operation from that of the previous owner. It's going to be a completely different economy, for example. in the case of depreciation of agricultural buildings and equipment, and something as simple as removing the maximum price of properties. There have never been as many empty farm buildings as they are today. Much of that is because we have a maximum price, i.e. that it is the government that decides what a farm should be sold/purchased for, regardless of whether the purchaser and the seller agree on a price. So there are many, many things to grasp here, so that we can get the important food production up to go, because there it is not today. The red-green government may view customs protection as the only blessing, but so simple is not the world, and it won't be right that way either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1352	The red-green government does not regard customs protection as the only saluting, but it is one of the three main berries of Norwegian agricultural policy. If it is not a customs protection, it will not be profitable to produce food in Norway. Then you are for a Norwegian agriculture, you must also be for customs protection. Norway is a cold country, it is a steep country, and we do not have large-scale agriculture anywhere. Even the agriculture that is in our own constituency, Hedmark around Mjösa, is a small-scale agriculture when compared with other countries. If it is to be profitable, we must be able to protect agriculture so that we can have a living food production around the country. That is where the great political difference between the Progress Party and the Centre Party and the Red-Green Government goes: we want to use political instruments to stimulate food production around the country and to give freedom to the individual farmer, so that he can make money on his production – that there should not only be liquidation and the few who can sell plots, which can still take advantage of his property.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1381	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-24.ana.ud2022e1396	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
