ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e30	A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Lise Christoffersen, Håkon Haugli and Anette Trettebergstuen on leave from 24 April to 27 April and from representatives Sylvi Graham, Øyvind Waksdal and Karin S. Woldseth on leave from 24 April to 26 April – all to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg from the Group of the Progressive Democrats on the leave of the representative Peter N. Myhre from 24 April to 26 April to take part in the UNCTAD conference in Doha, Qatar These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Buskerud County, Kjell Børre Hansen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Lise Christoffersen, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave from 24 to 26. April: For Akershus County: Bente Stein MathisenFor Buskerud County: Masud GharahkhaniFor Hedmark County: Thor LillehovdeFor Hordaland County: Torkil ÅlandFor Oslo: Karin Yrvin and Sylvi ListhaugFor Rogaland County: Terje Halleland
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e105	Bente Stein Mathisen, Masud Gharakhani, Thor Lillehovde, Torkil Åmland, Karin Yrvin, Sylvi Listhaug and Terje Halleland are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 20 April 2012: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 20 April 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is hereby decided: State Secretary Lotte Grepp Knutsen shall, upon application, be given a delegation of power from the office of State Secretary to the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e122	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e125	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to put forward two representative proposals, one on a scholarship scheme for young cultural talents and one on equal treatment of centres of excellence for rhythmic music.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e130	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e142	Before receiving the floor to make a statement, the Council of State Rigmor Aasrud will propose the following procedure for the debate on this matter: It is based on Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which deals with a statement by a member of the Government, but the provision is waived by the fact that point (b) of the first subparagraph is taken into account even if the statement is addressed immediately and not in a subsequent meeting. This means that the general provisions of Sections 35 to 37 will apply to the debate, except that it will open up up to six lines with replies immediately after the presentation by the Council of State. The President will also propose that the other debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Head of Delegation to the Nordic Council 10 minutes, Working Party 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Any other member of the government who takes part in the debate will have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes and will open up up to six lines with replies after the post within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e157	The reason why we are going to discuss border barriers in Stortinget today is that the Nordic Council has taken a commendable initiative to discuss this important issue in all the Nordic parliaments during April. In the formal Nordic government cooperation, border barriers are central. As the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, I lead the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers this year, and border barriers are an important priority in the Norwegian Presidency Programme. That's why I'm keeping this statement on behalf of the government. I welcome today's debate on frontier barriers. The Norwegian Government hopes that increased focus can help to accelerate the response to the obstacles. I refer you to the debate on Report. St. 5, 6 March this year, where border barriers were an important topic of review. The debate on the notification should be a starting point for discussing cross-border barriers on an annual basis. In the Nordic context, ‘frontier barriers’ have meant any obstacle resulting from differences in laws and regulations, regulations or other legislation, or from practices decided by public bodies. But this definition might not be the best and most common. At the first ministerial meeting of cooperation I chaired under the Norwegian Presidency in February, it was decided to work on an action plan for the work on border barriers. The mandate will include work precisely on a common definition of what a frontier barrier is, contribute to better organisation and focus of work, and better anchor it in the sectors. The work group's proposals are planned to be presented at the Nordic Council's session in Oslo in 2013. Border barriers are working well at both Nordic and national level. I believe, however, that we should discuss whether the organisation is the most appropriate one today. Border Obstacle Forums have been the main forum for resolving border barriers between Nordic countries since the establishment of prime ministers in 2007. Bjarne Dark-Eidem is Norway's representative in the Border Obstacle Forum. In 2011, a departmental contact group was set up. The Contact Group helps to speed up the handling of cases and at the same time facilitate contact with relevant departments for the Border Obstacle Forum and the Dark-Eidem. Similar contact groups exist in all Nordic countries. This helps to make work more efficient. Border Obstacle Forums work closely with frontier disabled people. The Morocco border service at the Norwegian/Swedish border is one of these. In addition, the focus is on border regional actors such as the Öresund Direct and the Nordic Information Services Hallo Norden and Norden. The Northern Calot Council has recently established an office responsible for questions relating to Sweden and Finland. Similarly, issues relating to Norway and Finland shall be identified. Together, these offices do an important daily job to help citizens and businesses. It is these bodies that conduct enquiries and take the pulse of the barriers to the borderline. President of the Border Obstacle Forum, Ole Norrback, has previously developed some areas he believes national and Nordic bodies should work more actively with. Legislative cooperation and clear signals to the administration on the importance of cross-border work are among these. When I took over the chair of the Nordic Council of Ministers on 1 January, I sent a letter to all Norwegian ministers responsible for the Council of Ministers in 2012, with instructions to focus on the work on border barriers. The various Nordic institutions are also involved in addressing the obstacles. Nordic Innovation is one of these. In the case of Nordic legislative cooperation, several conferences have been organised, including: in Copenhagen in 2010 and in Stockholm last year. I believe that Nordic coordination will also improve when the action plan on border barriers is put in place. In September, I will gather all the border disabled actors in the Nordic region and the Border Barrier Forum to the Border Service of Morocco. Naturally, the Swedish Minister for Cooperation will also be present. In Morocco, the work of the future on frontier barriers will be discussed. At the same time, the 10th anniversary of the Border Service is celebrated. Here we look forward to participation also from Stortinget. How, then, are we going to work to prevent new frontier barriers from emerging? We must remember that the legislation that creates border barriers in the Nordic region will, in most cases, create similar border barriers in the EEA region. The consequences could therefore be wide-ranging. Border barriers may arise upon the entry into force of new national legislation, changes in national legislation, changes in practice or implementation of EU/EEA legislation. Prevention has both common elements and specificities. In the preparation of new national legislation and in the case of amendments to existing legislation, there are a number of requirements for matters to be investigated. This applies, for example: the economic and administrative consequences, the relationship with human rights, the impact on equality and the environmental impact, to mention some. In the summer of 2010, the Nordic Council of Ministers appointed an expert group to identify frontier barriers in the field of employment and social affairs. The mandate of the Group was to discuss the scope, causes and consequences of obstacles and to design a model for dealing with the problems. The final report was available at the end of March this year and was presented at a seminar I attended on 19 April. The report mentions 35 different border barriers. The report is the first of its kind to propose solutions, in addition to analysing many of the border barriers of the Border Obstacle Forums. I therefore believe that it can provide a basis for the future work on border barriers in the Nordic Council of Ministers context, and in particular on the forthcoming action plan. The expert group has collected detailed information on international and national legislation and on practices related to all the cross-border barriers identified or revealed by the group itself. A challenge for the expert group has been that the description of each barrier has been so general that it has been difficult to identify what the problem really is. The reasons for the occurrence of cross-border barriers on a case-by-case basis, according to the expert group, can be found at different levels: EU legislation or its interpretation, national rules, administrative procedures or lack of information. The solutions outlined in the report by the expert group require a thorough assessment of the economic and administrative consequences of the change in question for each of the barriers to the border. Then each country will have to decide whether it is desirable to propose such changes. That assessment must be carried out in each department responsible for the legislation. It is important to note that the group does not make any recommendations for solution, but only points out how the different barriers can technically be solved. The members of the group worked as independent experts and therefore the proposals should not be seen as national positions. The group clearly states in its report that the decision on how or if it is desirable to proceed with the various solutions will have to be made at national level. It is also important to note that, in most cases, the solution to frontier barriers will not be able to be isolated to only Nordic workers. The solution will initially cover workers from all over the EEA territory. As I see it, some of the border barriers need to be addressed through changes in EU legislation. For these, it is therefore not that each Nordic country can solve the problem on its own through changes in national legislation or decide that the problem should be resolved in a specific way. It is necessary to consider how the report and recommendations should be followed up in a concrete way both in the Nordic context and in each country. This includes, inter alia: the need for individual specialist departments in the various countries to assess the changes they wish to prioritise and how best to address them. The respective debates in the Nordic countries might tell us something more about that. Attention to border barriers has increased in recent years. The challenge is to turn political attention into concrete and visible results in the form of unsolved barriers. The countries and the Councils of Ministers can play an important role here. The individual expert council must be responsible for the follow-up in its field. It is too early here and now to make some concrete promises relating to solutions to the barriers in the report. Assessments as to whether, and in the case of, how to remove the different border barriers will have to be made in each country through an ordinary democratic process. However, I would like to point out some examples from the report that work is being done. Firstly, rehabilitation for people who are members of the social security system in one Nordic country and who live in another country has long been discussed between the Nordic countries. Such a person may be at risk of losing the possibility of occupational rehabilitation in the event of an illness. Following Article 12 of the proposal for a new Nordic Convention on Social Security, institutions in the country of work and residence shall cooperate on rehabilitation measures. Due to the legal electoral rules of the Regulation, work training may result in a change in social security membership, which in turn may lead to the loss of the right to cash benefits from the former labour force. The new Nordic Convention then requires the countries concerned, as far as possible, to resolve the situation as best they can by means of agreements in accordance with Article 16 of the Regulation. The new Convention is expected to enter into force early in 2013 and should contribute significantly to improving the situation in this area when the country of employment is different from the country of residence. Another example is frontier workers who become unemployed while receiving sick pay and who do not receive unemployment benefits if they are partially informed. Following the expert group’s assessment, this problem arises because of the misunderstanding and practice of the legal electoral rules resulting from the EU Social Security Regulation, and is proposed to be resolved by ensuring that the labour and welfare seat practices the rules correctly in such cases. The length of the procedure in EU cases is a third case to be dealt with. For Norway, the issue of a certificate E-301 on the transfer of periods of employment and social security from Norway is particularly problematic. To address this barrier, the Labour and Welfare Act is required to provide adequate resources and priorities for this work. All new applications that are sufficiently documented are now being examined within three weeks. The average duration of proceedings for certificate E-301 was eight weeks at the turn of the year. Among the border barriers mentioned in the report, which have been solved for Norway during the group’s work, are among others: additional requirements for work carried out in order to aggregate periods of work and insurance from another country in the case of an application for unemployment assistance. In the past, Norway had required EEA citizens to have worked in Norway for at least eight weeks before being able to transfer earned entitlement to unemployment benefits in respect of applications for daily allowances. This rule was lifted in the autumn of 2011 and thus the border barrier has been resolved for Norway. Another example is the contribution to cross-border recruitment interviews. Mobility-promoting social benefits may be provided to cover travel expenses to a new place of work or to a job interview and could previously be provided only for trips in Norway or to and from the Norwegian border. With effect from 1 January 2012, it is open to the State of employment and welfare to provide such benefits for travel throughout the EEA territory. The border barrier has thus been resolved for Norway. Finally, I would like to take an example of a frontier barrier that is included in the report, but which I believe should be removed from the list, and that is the determination of the feather quota. Men who work in Norway but who have a spouse/partner who does not live or work in Norway do not have an independent right to a family allowance or parental pension. The Norwegian scheme implies that if father works in Norway while mother works in another Nordic country or EEA country before birth, father is not entitled to a parental allowance. On the Norwegian side, there is no wish to change these rules, because it involves a major change in our policies. We need to be aware that the Nordic countries all have their own peculiarities, embedded in their own political decisions and solutions, best suited to their own inhabitants. I therefore believe that, after a thorough process in each department, it is necessary to consider depreciating some frontier barriers. Not all can, or should, be defined as real frontier barriers. Some may even be wanted border barriers, such as: the rules laid down to prevent the export of social security benefits. For several of the border barriers referred to in the report, only Norway may be able to make changes to laws and regulations; for others, we should be able to contribute to a solution together with several of the other countries. A complete reduction of border barriers is neither realistic nor desirable, because the Nordic countries have different laws and regulations. We also have different cultures in many areas. Our idiosyncratic welfare policy solutions cannot be considered as real obstacles to the borders. In further work on the review of special border barriers in that report, consideration by the relevant Councils of Ministers in the field of employment and social affairs will be important, and we need to come back to the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e229	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e232	The Council of State concluded with what can be seen as the level of ambition of the government in this work — a complete reduction of border barriers is not desirable. She also said that we have to depreciate a number of border barriers because it is not desirable for them to be met by Norway. It is essential that our neighbours, including in this cooperation, agree that these should not be considered as border barriers. There has been a recent debate in the other Nordic parliaments on this issue. In Denmark, the Danish Minister for Cooperation said that border barriers do not belong in Nordic cooperation. There is no doubt that they should be removed one by one. Is that also the level of ambition of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e243	As I said in my introduction, it is not desirable to remove all Norwegian border barriers. Border barriers are there to prevent, inter alia: exports of social security benefits. I think that's right. In addition, it is also desirable to maintain a number of other border barriers, based on the political decisions taken in Norway. But then I agree that we are going to work to remove as many border barriers as possible where there are more practical consequences that are being taken into account. I think we have to recognise that there are different basic political views in the Nordic governments and in the majority of the Nordic parliaments. It will also characterise some of the attitudes and responses we have to give in relation to the individual barriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e250	I agree with the Council of State that there are some border barriers that should not be removed. In particular, the export of social security benefits is important because it can provide estimates in relation to the EEA and cause an unfortunate distortion in relation to unwanted labour migration. Much is wanted, but the export of social security benefits may not be the best tool we have. So I agree. But there's other things I'm kind of jumping on. The 2008 round is an excellent circular, but how much does it actually work in practice? Here are a few examples: it seems to me that the introduction of the Data Storage Directive in different countries has not at all been given equal implementation of the EEA Directive, and the introduction of new rules on core capital in banks has given rise to strong distortions of competition between different banks in Nordic countries. This is particularly important for Norway, because we have a large proportion of foreign-owned banks. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e259	I agree with the representative Foss that some decisions taken in Norway help us to find different solutions in the Nordic countries. I don't think it would have been possible to get a common Nordic position on the Data Storage Directive. To that the political disagreements were too big. I think that is a good example of why we have different rules in the different Nordic countries. It was a demanding matter. We had – and still have – discussions about this in Norway, and I feel that the debate and interest in the issues related to the Data Storage Directive are different in the Nordic countries. I guess the same applies – without my knowledge of it – to the issue of core capital in Norwegian banks. So these are good examples that frontier barriers can arise because we have different political positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e264	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a good presentation, which showed both challenges and dilemmas on the subject. The Nordic Prime Ministers decided in 2007 to ‘remove by all means the difficulties that residents may encounter in the Nordic context’. So it's anchored in the prime ministers. My question to the Minister for Cooperation is: Does the Minister see any tools — some tools — that are unused in this important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e273	I think there's a lot of mess about how to systematize work and get rid of the barriers. Therefore, as I said in my presentation, I believe that it is important to create an action plan where we both agree on some definitions and create a system of how to follow up the individual barriers. So I think what we've done in Norway now – that in addition to having the barrier forum of which Bjarne Dark-Eidem is a member – and which does an excellent drive job of setting up an office group that can be a partner there – will help to make it easier to both identify and find solutions. Finally, as I said in my presentation, I would like to assess whether it is appropriate to set up similar expert groups to what we have now received in the social security field – and which we are going to follow up – in other areas where there are several border barriers. This approach may be appropriate in the future. So, yes, there are still some unused possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e280	We have become aware of a problem that fathers are not entitled to leave when they have children, unless the mother has worked this right up in Norway. I think it is a pity that the government will not look at that question, because this can also apply to Norwegian men who have worked in Norway for all years, who have had children with a Swedish lady, but have not yet moved to Sweden. So they don't have the right to be home with their children. I would like to ask a few questions: What does the Council of State think if it is the other way around, namely that the Swedish mother works in Norway: Will the Swedish father, who lives in Sweden, get that leave scheme through her work? And what about the homosexuals who have a baby: how can they process their right to be at home with the little child, if it's only to be linked to the mother's income? Would it not be more appropriate to link it to the income of the person on leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e288	The representative Giltun asks me quite detailed questions. In the case of gays and lesbians living in couple relationships, I believe we have ensured good leave legislation in Norway for them as well. Detailed rules on what it is like if a Swedish worker works in Norway, is covered by Norwegian social security legislation and has a spouse living in another country, I cannot answer over the table. But the basic thing in that case is that we don't want to have that kind of export of social security schemes. These schemes are therefore valid throughout the EEA, and that was a fundamental prerequisite for the removal and the like of the rules. I thought the Progress Party was among those who stood in the breeze to support up under it. So, yes, I think the rules are right, but the detailed questions we might get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e295	Border crossings in Norway are a major problem. You close them when it's holidays, and you have a night lock. We can take the crossing over the Bjørn mountain just in connection with the Easter: when you opened it after Easter, there were almost 80 wagon trains and waiting, and someone had waited up to several days, this creates some traffic and other problems for the industry – at the top of the salmon export, which very often goes over here, was not present, because they were aware that this crossing was closed. This makes business lose an incredible amount of money, time and other, so I'll ask the council if she will now guarantee that she will go in and get cleaned up in this, so that business and the flow between the borders can be like it's going to be in a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e302	The question asked by the representative, Mr. Tåldal, is not about a barrier in the way we define it, but the government is aware that there are challenges related to opening hours and building mass in part of our border stations. So that's what we're dealing with, and of course we'll work on it in the future. Where possible, concrete solutions can be found for the border station in question, we must check out with the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for customs matters. But there is a relevant question, and the government is aware of the issue. I will promise that I will take it with me in the further work as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e309	Torgeir Tåldal for line no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e312	I cannot understand that the Council of State says this is not a frontier barrier. When it comes to goods shipped from all over the world, especially to the North from the Baltic and going to Western Europe, which remains standing, it causes quality to deteriorate, and you get less paid when you can't cross the border. After all, it's a job for Norway to keep the border open. Norway also has to do so that car trains from Sweden, Denmark and otherwise get what they need to cross the border and are not stopped there. It's actually worse to get across this border than to get across the border of Russia. It can't be like that in the Nordic region. If the Council of State believes that it is not a frontier barrier, I ask the Council of State to specify and explain to me how to say that it is not a frontier barrier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e317	I believe that what is a frontier barrier is where we have legislation that creates challenges. The question of how long the opening time should be is, to a greater extent, a question of allocation. Then I agree that it may be problematic for business that customs stations should not be passed at the time you have to pass, because it can prevent the movement of goods into Norway. In particular, it is important for the fishing industry that fresh fish enter the market as soon as possible. So I understand that it's a challenge, and I think it needs to be solved through any changes in appropriations. I am also aware that there are some building challenges at some of our border stations where we are working on finding good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e324	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e327	After 60 years of Nordic cooperation in the Nordic Council, many barriers to cross-border work, study and nutrition remain. This year it is the first time that a debate on the free movement and obstacles to frontiers is held in all the Nordic countries' parliaments. The Nordic Prime Ministers, as I mentioned earlier in my reply, decided in June 2007 to ‘remove by all means the difficulties that citizens may encounter in the Nordic context’. In order to speed up this work, a Border Barrier Forum was set up to specifically encourage authorities in the Nordic countries to find solutions to border barriers. If we remove frontier barriers, it is possible to get a socio-economic benefit for the whole of the Nordic region, which will help make the Nordic region a more dynamic and forward-looking region. Much good work has been done, but when some frontier barriers have been removed, unfortunately new ones are coming through the laws and decisions that we are making in our parliaments. The Nordic Council and the Grand Duchy’s delegation have given high priority to removing barriers to labour market mobility. Border Disability Forums and Hallo Norden have identified a number of barriers for individuals and business. On 19 April this year, Minister of Cooperation Rigmor Aasrud presented a Nordic report on border barriers in the labour market and social affairs of the Nordic countries. This is an excellent report that also presents solutions. It does not seem that the government is going to be unemployed in this area. As mentioned above, the Nordic Council and the delegation are giving high priority to the cross-border work, and we are pleased with the good dialogue we have with the government side. But work needs to be intensified. We have to speed up, because we're impatient. There are many people and small businesses who look forward to a simpler everyday life. In advance of the debate here today, the delegation asked the government, in its presentation, to pay particular attention to labour market, business and welfare. I think the minister has done this in a good way. The debate we have here today must not become just beautiful words. We must now make real progress in the matter. That is why I am pleased that all parties have agreed on five proposals that the government is advised to follow up. This cross-political consensus is important, and I am sure that we can now take new steps towards a more borderless Nordic. I therefore take up the proposals distributed in the Chamber, on behalf of Bendiks H. Arnesen, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Per-Kristian Foss, Alf Egil Holmelid, Per Olaf Lundtigen, Trine Skei Grande and myself. It is important that the Nordic authorities find solutions to the problems that arise for individual citizens when the Nordic authorities cannot agree. It's not the individual citizen who needs to figure this out. Border Obstacle Forums have demonstrated their justification through their work. Now it's time to take a step further to help the individual citizen in the Nordic region. The Government must take an initiative to establish a Nordic Ombudsman or the Ombudsman’s office to which the individual citizen may apply. But what does removing five obstacles when ten new ones come to? We must take this with us when new laws are adopted and when EU legislation is to be implemented. I will give tribute to former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget and Minister of Cooperation Heidi Grande Røys. Together, in December 2008, they sent a joint letter to all departments stressing that new legislative proposals should include an assessment as to whether the proposed legislation could create border barriers in the Nordic region – border barriers that can effectively hamper mobility across Nordic borders. The two ministers also pointed out that, in the absence of such an assessment, the relevant Scientific Committees in Stortinget may address the issue when dealing with the proposition. With regard to the implementation of EU acts, the two ministers argue that national legislators do not rarely have a certain ‘room for action’. As stated in the letter: ‘The pursuit of uniform rules in the Nordic region thus becomes the same as the pursuit of uniform implementation of the acts as far as possible.’ In the Ministry of Justice, good practice was set up in 2008 to prevent new border barriers between Nordic countries. I think there is a need to remind all the departments of this letter. Individuals and small businesses face problems in their daily activities when borders between Nordic countries are crossed. I just want to mention a few examples of this, problems that it's possible to solve: Machinery contractors and others who take in machinery and equipment must toll – VAT-clearers – the equipment at border crossing. This means that VAT must be paid before border crossing. Fees are refunded when the assignment is completed, but it often means a liquidity burden on entrepreneurs and smaller business owners. The delegation has heard reports from smaller business owners who each time have to pledge their house to get a loan from the bank to pay the VAT, and who have to resign because the value of the house is too low. The tax authorities do not understand that this can be a problem, because, as they say, you get your money back. It is certainly not easy to change arrangements when the authorities do not see the problems that the rules in question cause. It is therefore appropriate to provide for a system of exemption from customs duties on machinery and equipment if the equipment is to be used for a limited period of time and for specific tasks. The system must be combined with a registration system when entering and leaving the border in order to ensure control and prevent abuse. Professionals in a Nordic country often have problems working in another Nordic country. This may be due to differences in education itself or to the introduction of national authorisation schemes, which create a very flexible system. The delegation has been informed that it is more difficult for a Swedish car mechanic trained in Sweden to become a workshop manager in a Norwegian car workshop than for a car mechanic with education from Germany or Slovakia. The rationale of the competent Norwegian authority is that Swedish mechanistic education is structured in such a way that it is difficult to compare with Norwegian education. We have to accept each other's professional training, so that a Norwegian electrician can install lights in Swedish houses, and a Swedish car mechanic can repair Norwegian cars. People who commute to work in another Nordic country and who are affected by occupational injury or long-term illness may be at risk of having to travel to the labour market for rehabilitation. It's totally unsustainable. Too many people, this is an extra burden in addition to the disease itself. You don't get any healthier sitting in a car or on a train for many hours to get rehabilitation in the working country. But because the rules are like that, you're forced to travel long distances. It is not beneficial for the employee. Therefore, rehabilitation should be carried out as closely as possible to the place of residence. The aim is, in the event of a better solution, to facilitate and speed up the return of the worker to work. The government has chaired the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2012 and therefore has a special responsibility for removing border barriers between Nordic countries. The delegation has the chair of the Nordic Council in 2013, and we will follow up on this work. We have expectations, and we have said that we are impatient. I look forward to a first feedback from the government in the upcoming announcement to the Stortinget on Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e372	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e375	It is a historic day in Stortinget, and it is historic weeks in the Nordic parliaments because we have had – and should have – debates on border barriers in all our Nordic parliaments this month. As the delegation leader said, this has never happened before, despite the fact that most of the Nordic Council's history has been talking about the cross-border problem. I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation and for the fact that, as Minister of Cooperation, she is in favour of the Nordic Council's wish to have such a debate in the parliaments. Let me first express my agreement with those who say that we can't and should remove all the barriers. We are different countries with different opportunities and different challenges. Therefore, the total elimination of all barriers is neither possible nor desirable. I noticed that someone, for example. have been talking about the border barriers to agriculture and agricultural products. Here we are talking about national regulations that take into account the possibilities of food production based on climatic and topographical conditions, and where the assumptions in the Nordic region are very different. In this context, we must not forget that we have a responsibility to keep the food soil in claim and to produce food for our inhabitants where this is possible. No one has earned this opportunity to weaken in parts of the Nordic region. At the same time, we have many border barriers that, in my view, are a nuisance for people and for the possibilities of living and working across our borders. In other words, it is important to be able to exercise a mobility that is both desirable and necessary in the Nordic region. I believe that a number of such barriers have become so because of the unintended effects of national decisions, and that they must therefore also be removed in a reasonably simple way. There is probably also a lot of will and not least action to be done here. I think that there is also a need for a more significant focus on what new EU requirements and rules mean in order to create new border barriers and for our close neighbourhood here in the Nordic region. I would like to refer to one who said that when it was possible for the Swedes to switch from left-hand drive to right-hand drive without the major incidents, it must also be possible to quickly remove unnecessary barriers that are just a nuisance to our Nordic residents. I believe that the creation of the Border Obstacle Forum in 2007 was a very important step forward in this work, and I want to commend the members of the Forum for the work they have done so far in producing facts on this major topic. The Nordic Trade Union Confederation and the Nordic Association have, in a very good opinion, addressed three barriers to the Nordic labour market which they consider to hinder growth and reduce the possibility of well-being for all. Here the organisations point out that many tens of thousands of people commute across the border between the Nordic countries every day, and that many move from one country to another because of work, study and love, as they write. They also say that increased cross-border mobility of labour contributes positively to cooperation between countries. I think they're quite right about this. I believe these organisations in this brief opinion are at the heart of the challenges, and that what needs to be given the highest priority in the area of removal of border barriers is in the labour market. Finally, let me thank the presidency, which has facilitated this important debate in a flexible way. I hope that it will be followed up further, and that in the future we will have more such debates to focus on this important topic for the Nordic citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e403	The important thing for Nordic cooperation is that the Nordic region has to put issues on the agenda that make Nordic cooperation relevant. The Nordics have to put issues on the agenda that show what challenges our citizens face in their everyday lives. We need to challenge concrete measures on how to solve these, making everyday life easier both for our citizens and for our business. Only in this way, in my opinion, does Nordic cooperation become relevant, and only in this way can we gain an understanding of the value of Nordic cooperation in the population. In this way, it is commendable that we have now had an equal debate at about the same time and with the same focus in all the Nordic parliaments on how to remove one of the main obstacles to painless Nordic cooperation, namely the border barriers. This year, Norway holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Norway must be a clear driving force in this work, make clear demands to other Nordic countries on the importance of this work, and not least Norway must be the best student in the class. In order to be anchored in Nordic cooperation, it means that Nordic cooperation needs to be further focused and concentrated on work which quickly provides a clear added effect for our citizens, and that other more diffuse work must be reduced to the benefit of this. Cross-border work is thus a clear example of what should be the main focus of Nordic cooperation. It affects a large number of inhabitants. Many inhabitants are affected by this daily situation, and border barriers, if they persist, can significantly weaken the competitiveness of the region. Similarly, a reduction can strengthen the competitiveness of the Nordic region in relation to other regions of the world. The reduction of border barriers will contribute to a more flexible Nordic workforce, increased trade and, above all, the reduction of unnecessary and costly bureaucracy. There are an infinite number of frontier barriers that business people have to deal with every day, without doing anything about them. The border service may provide information on how these can be resolved, but they are constantly creating challenges for those who have not been in them before. It is desirable that the border service be further strengthened so that our citizens and our businesses can receive the guidance they need. In this debate so far, I have noticed that several speakers, including from the government, have stressed that it is not desirable to remove all border barriers. Yes, let us then have a debate – in Stortinget, but not least in the Nordic Council – on that topic. What concrete barriers are what we don't want to remove? Because here I think many of the Nordic countries will have a lot of opinions in such a debate, and that there will be disagreement on that topic. Border Obstacle Forums work well in my opinion, but there are opportunities for improvement of this as well. I support the establishment of an ombudsman regime, which is in a way an improvement to this barrier-free regime that we have had so far. Citizens must have places to turn, so that they can get help to solve their challenges, but it is equally important that we have clear driving forces at work. The time has now come for a boundless Nordic. The time has come to remove the barriers that create barriers for our Nordic fellow citizens. The legitimacy and future of the Nordic work rests on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e427	Border barriers are one of the top issues on the Nordic agenda for many years. Both in the Council of Ministers, through the Border Obstacle Forum and in the Nordic Council, considerable attention has been paid to formal and practical restrictions on the ability of Nordic citizens to move freely, live, work and establish a family in the Nordic region. Moreover, the Nordic countries and Europe are more closely integrated than ever. At the same time, there are still more obstacles in practical life than we should think. Often it is more a result of lack of attention or of rigid practice than of evil will or of political choice. Similarly, there are some more — new and very thorough — reports, among others. from the Border Obstacle Forum, and the Committees of Officials have illustrated that from a political point of view, we must contribute to the follow-up of our beautiful words of Nordic cooperation in the law and in practice. This debate is an important contribution in this way. The establishment of the Border Barrier Forum in 2007 was a prime minister initiative. It was good that we raised it on such a high level. It would have been a strength for this debate if the Prime Minister had also participated, but I understand that there are other and more important tasks in the domestic political environment. It may say something about Nordic cooperation not always on the agenda. On the right hand side of this debate, we have noted in particular the demand of the President of the Border Obstacle Forum, and the President of the Council and the former Nordic Parliamentary President, from March this year. The letter underlines the importance of coordination in legislative preparatory work both at national level and in the implementation of EU/EEA legislation. A much more thorough work needs to be done than is currently done in order to identify and address border barriers arising from national law decisions or the implementation of EEA legislation. The 2009 report of the Border Obstacle Forum reveals major weaknesses in how this is done today. And with respect to reporting, I have the impression that the political debate/contact between governments on the implementation of the data storage directive was not top-notch, but that it was the internal debate in the government that dominated the implementation of the directive and not the Nordic equality. We have some proposals from the Right in the direction that we would recommend to the government to consider – and with ‘recommendation’ follows a mandatory response to the Stortinget, so in a year we will be told the answer to the recommendations. Under the rules in force, the primary aim is to seek support for studies from the country where you are a national. Today, however, there are a number of national constraints relating to living or working time, preventing Nordic citizens from receiving such support. Our proposal is to recommend to the government, in cooperation with other Nordic countries, the harmonisation of study aid rules, which are currently limited by national requirements. This means that we need to work together on this, that it is not just a unilateral Norwegian responsibility, but a desire to do so in all the Nordic countries. Last week, at the Swedish Border Obstacle Seminar last week, we were described how the lack of knowledge in the administration contributes to creating obstacles for young people who will take part in high school in another Nordic country. Information is completely absent, the administration can't do anything about it, and the question from the association Hallo Norden has been a throwing ball between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Directorate of Education to end as – simply – unanswered. The proposal is intended to recommend to the government to provide better and more accessible information on what actually exists in Nordic cooperation in this area. Last but not least, we see how special rules and administrative restrictions relating to the processing and delivery of tax cards and so-called d-numbers pose a significant problem for Nordic citizens who want to work in Norway. This is a matter which has been up in the Storting in the past, but where developments unfortunately seem to be going in the wrong direction, with a sharp decrease in the number of tax offices where this is carried out. It is true that tax offices now — the 41 who do — can treat better, but the distance from tax offices has increased for many Nordic citizens. For large jobs with many immigrants, considerable work can be done to facilitate the so-called alternative presence, i.e. the tax office going out, rather than people coming to the tax office. For this reason, we recommend to the government to facilitate faster procedures throughout the year – not just outside the seasons – and facilitate access to the tax offices of Nordic workers applying for Norwegian d-numbers to pay wages with normal tax rates in Norway. On this basis, I address the proposals that I have made on behalf of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e448	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e451	I am pleased with this historic debate here in Stortinget today. SV is concerned about strengthening Nordic cooperation. The five Nordic countries and the three autonomous regions may have developed one of the densest cooperative constellations in the world, but there is a lot to learn from further cooperation. We are relatively small countries, and we face many of the same challenges. Thus, there is a lot to get to work more closely together. While it is important to further develop political cooperation, it is also important to facilitate cooperation in the fields of culture, knowledge development and business. Especially in these areas, both in civil society and in business, it is important to address barriers that place unnecessary obstacles and unnecessary stumbling blocks in the way of civil society and business cooperation. Clearly, there are differences between the Nordic countries, not least in agriculture. It is quite obvious that there are areas where it is not possible or desirable to remove all obstacles. I've probably said before that I'm grown up on a garden in the West that's relatively steep, and I don't see how to have equivalent conditions of competition in relation to the flatlands in Denmark. So it's quite obvious that there are some areas where it's not desirable to remove barriers because they're part of the political choices we're making because in some areas we have different challenges, even though we have many common challenges. But what we need to address is the challenges that most people and business perceive as totally incomprehensible obstacles, and that do not always have a sufficiently good political foundation, but that have only become such for historical reasons or because – as was previously mentioned here today – they who are responsible for the regulation do not understand the practical consequences of them for people the most. I have had the pleasure of working in the research and innovation working group that has recently been set up in the Nordic Council, and I see that in innovation, the Nordic countries have a lot to learn from each other. There is perhaps one of the greatest potentials we have in the future, for example. in the field of green innovation. But in innovation cooperation, one of the things we could work together on could be common infrastructure to do development work. Just in cooperation on common infrastructure, we get rid of such things as we've been dealing with here today, that craftsmen from Norway can't work in Sweden and vice versa. Here is a good example of the fact that approving vocational training between countries, which is one of the things we address here today, can actually have a significant impact on cooperation around, for example: innovation. Otherwise, it is also within the work we do in the research and innovation working group, quite clearly very much to be found on the research page itself. It is perhaps within research, that is, within the Topping Research Initiative, that some of the most successful has been done when it comes to Nordic cooperation and that needs to be carried on. But without it being taken up as a proposal here today, there are also, within research, some inequalities that there is reason to look forward to. For example, Norway has opened the way for other countries to search for Norwegian research tools, but the vice versa is not the case in all countries. There are, of course, things that are not optimal compared to further collaboration in the research field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e462	First of all, I would like to thank you for a very balanced introduction to an important and demanding theme from the Council of State Aasrud. It's rare I take so strongly. Norway is a different country that many of us are very proud of. It is characterised by low unemployment, and it is characterised by a strong growth in real income for workers with a strong position in the labour market. However, Nordic cooperation is becoming more demanding when we are in the situation that Norway is a maritime country and Denmark, Sweden and Finland are Union countries in a Union that is developing more and more towards a United States of Europe, thus being states of such a supranational Union. The international political courage of the past 25 years has been the freest movement possible: the freest movement of capital, which has led to a very extensive speculation, which ended in the first phase of the financial crisis we are now in, and the freest possible movement of labour, we see a very large increase in short-term employment or temporary workers. It is a development that is very strong in many Union countries, which is also pressing in Norway, and which is a major policy issue. The financial crisis has led to the role of national states in a reindeer. It was the nation states through their democratic elections and their economic and political strength that managed to mitigate the negative consequences of the financial crisis. That is why I want to underline the role of the nation state, the social, progressive nation state, as we have managed to build it up in Norway. In the North, there are more jealous relationships between people than there are for people and countries farther south. Nevertheless, there are clear differences in political democratic elections. We have e.g. stronger obligations to ownership of land in Norway than what we have around us — a great advantage, from the point of view of the Centre Party. We have national control of natural resources, the fall-back of power plants – a very important matter that has been handled in a good way by our Parliament and by our people. We have long-term management of the natural resources of fish and forests, with binding laws, which ensure the decent, sound operation of these renewable natural resources. But within the fact that you're different, it's the long-term line of the Center Party that you want to strengthen Nordic cooperation. We want to strengthen Nordic cooperation in the context of the fact that I have now described, namely different forms of association with the European Union. As the Council of State was concerned, border barriers must be specifically monitored and assessed on a case-by-case basis through a democratic process, on the basis of an acceptance for different political values. But the attitude is present within the framework described by the Council of State in a very good way, in my opinion. It is obvious that it is easy and important to work for the same technical standard on equipment that is essential in everyday life. It is seaworthy that we should establish a Nordic Ombudsman to look at different administrative practices within what should be equal, as is the text. One should work for simplified customs clearance of work machines on fixed-term work assignments within the different countries, while customs clearance is such that one should not cheat in the system. There are also obligations relating to the simplification of those who come within it. It is important to assess the recognition of vocational training in each country. It is important to assess workers who live in one country and work in another and who are then affected by occupational injury, so that they can be rehabilitated near the place of residence. What we are talking about is a balance, a balance in Nordic cooperation, while recognising the democratic characteristics of the nation states. The progress party said the time had come for a borderless Nordic. The centre party does not agree with that, as we all know. A national State involves borders, involves differences based on the democratic situation in which it is situated. So, in many areas, the strange situation in Norway is a great advantage. This is something that we should focus on when ensuring the democratic power of the weak groups, ensuring the long-term management of natural resources, but in other important areas concrete laws, regulations and rules need to be changed, in order to ensure a better link between the inhabitants of the different countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e488	Much good and important work is being done in many areas of Nordic cooperation. Even I'm in the Nutrition Committee. There we have a wide range of issues – from energy, research and innovation to space policy cooperation. This may not be very well known among most people, but many I meet are concerned with Nordic issues and especially in two areas. There are border barriers and transportation. I have previously talked a lot about the importance of closer and better cooperation in transport, as the Helsinki Agreement states, but we will get back to that on a later occasion. Today, border barriers are on the agenda, and this has been a high priority in Nordic cooperation over the last decade. Johan Lindblad of the Nordic Council of Ministers in Copenhagen said so in a meeting at the Border Service of Morocco on 2 May last year: The Nordic Governments are very keen on resolving border barriers. The political interest in this has become stronger and stronger, and it has now been realised that countries cannot afford these obstacles in the future. Lindblad is quite right, and this was made clear at a conference on the theme that was held in Stockholm last November. A study was presented to show that we can significantly stimulate economic growth in the Nordic region by reducing barriers. The main challenges are labour market, trade and investment. This is well described in many documents, and I do not get any further into these areas in this post. Let me stress that there are many obstacles that we have solved, many that work on, and there is a lot of good work done on this. As others have said, everything cannot be solved, countries have different political views on a number of issues, different laws and rules in several areas, and that is the way it will always be. But some things should, in my view, be simple. Some examples: the case of Swedish Sofia Berndtsson. In 2008, 24 years old, she moved to Norway to play handball for Storhamar. Now she wants to study, but does not have the right to study loans either from Norway or Sweden. The Norwegian loan fund will not give her a student loan, because she has not worked 100 pst. in the last two years. She has worked for 60 pst. Position in a kindergarten and taxed to Norway, but this is not enough to meet the student loan requirement, says Lånekassa. Nor can the Swedish loan fund provide her with study support, as they require her to have lived for two consecutive years in the country during the last five years. We have to be able to solve these things. Another issue that seems to be completely locked down is the issue of a common mortgage scheme for soft drinks and beer boxes – a good environmental issue, which is being worked on a great deal. With the technology we have today, this should be easy to solve, but as I understand it, the organisational obstacles are in the way of getting this done. Such things seem quite incomprehensible to several of us. Another area I want to mention, which others have been involved in, is education. Rigmor Andersen Eide was also involved in this. Some examples: If you are trained as a car repairman in Sweden, you cannot get a similar job in Norway. But if you come from Germany, it's okay. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get I thought maybe Sweden was a bit bigger in the car industry than Norway. Another example is that an electrician from Iceland cannot get a similar job in Norway if he has not worked for two years in Iceland. The Socialist Group in the Nordic Council has now made a proposal asking for a review of these issues and for proposals for solutions. Then we're just going to hope that this case gets a better fate than the mortgage settlement case. As state councillor Aasrud said in his speech, the head of the Border Barrier Forum, Ole Norrback, has given some advice on how we can continue to work. He says, among other things:We need to make clear decisions on matters, set a deadline for reporting each decision, give clear policy guidelines to those who draw up decision-making bases and who are responsible for follow-up. The annual feedback needs to become clearer on the results achieved and explain any reasons why the results have not been achieved. We need to make clear administrative rules in order to compare and coordinate the implementation of the EU directive and give clear signals that new unnecessary border barriers do not occur. This is good advice that we have to take with us. Finally, I will give tribute to the Council of State Aasrud for the work that is now being done. It is good that we are now working on an action plan, and I think these are important points in the mandate. It is necessary to define what a frontier barrier is, to focus more on the problem, to assess better ways of organising work, and to better anchor it in the sectors. I look forward to the work group's proposals, which I hope will be ready for the session in Oslo in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e514	Border barriers are so many. It concerns the cross-border rights, which include: not to be carried over. I want to go back a little bit to what I brought up with the government council in the line change, which is what's going on at the border stations. Many border stations in Norway — and some of them are particularly serious — are unable to stay open 24 hours a day, and are also closed on public holidays. This creates major problems for industry in general and has been pointed out for several years by the fisheries industry, among other things. in the Lofoten and the Vesterål. You lose a lot of money because you stay on the border with fish that you don't get customs declared fast enough, and you don't get to the continent at the time you have to – despite Norway being a fishing nation, and we live well with it. So we export 38 million meals every day, and then at least we have to organize to get what we're going to get out. I have also been contacted by Swedish politicians, especially after the episode in Easter when Bjørnfjell was closed, and there were 54 carriage trains on the Norwegian side and 22 on the Swedish side. This created traffic problems, and it created problems for those who had to wait. Those with fish from the Lofoten and the Vesterål – where there was the most pressure – were not among them, because they were aware that Norway had closed off the declaration at the border at that time. This is a big problem, and we're almost ridiculed outwards. It's important for the industry that we have open borders, and we're talking about very small amounts to clean up here. On top of that: we are a Schengen country, we must have border control and be part of it. The customs duties at the border also have a monitoring potential in terms of taking what may cross the border illegally. Once the border is closed, it's of course easier to get over with illegal things. There is also another problem – a little to the proposal – that goes on VAT on machinery. Here I also have an example: Over Bjørnfjell, on the other hand, there is a building boom on the Swedish side, where one among other things. builds up an apartment hotel. It is organised for snowmobiles and other things that cannot be accessed in Norway, which means that you have a huge pressure on the tourism side. The companies that are on the Norwegian side, who could have been in and tendered, cannot afford to participate. I myself have been contacted by a mechanic who had intended to bring a truck and a excavator to a three-day job up there. He was stopped at the border. He went into finn.no and found out that this was worth $5 million. NOK, and then you add 25 pst. on the table in order to take the machines over. It is clear that a small enterprise does not have capital to do so. So here's something that's wrong, that you have to do something about. We can look at the other side of the boundary, what to do there. Even I hunt a little in Sweden, and there you have managed to avoid stopping for the declaration of weapons. You can do this online and print it before you leave. So you're good at doing a lot of things, but when it comes to nutrition, you don't know that. We also see that there are different rules regarding the border crossing of drivers. Not all Swedes are authorised to drive in Norway, but the Norwegians can drive into Sweden. In order to create a transport plan between countries, it is necessary to ensure that there are equal rules for all. That is why I believe that, among other things: transport is important. In fact, the Helsinki Agreement states that it should be a Minister of Transport – and this is a breach, because today we do not have it. There's also something we should be looking at. With a transport minister, you could possibly go in and look at border barriers, where it is not open and working, and you could get focus on it – possibly with a border ombudsman. It would be positive to tackle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e533	It was a thorough and interesting presentation by the Minister of Cooperation, where she made some of the challenges of frontier barriers visible and made it clear. After the Danish Parliament, as the first Parliament, held a similar debate last Friday, all the other Nordic countries are now following up. After many years in the Nordic Council, I hope and believe that this can be a good vitamin injection for the cooperation that we all want so strongly. Despite the extensive work done to identify and address Nordic border barriers in recent years, there are still some themes that are more frequent – not to say estrangements – in this area. This concerns issues related to education, taxation and industry, and not least social and labour market issues. It is gratifying that this problem, which is potentially at risk of hitting groups that are already weaker at national level, is now receiving attention, as we do, for example. have reviewed the expert group report published as late as last week. This is a thorough report that is well at the heart of current issues related to work and social benefits, both at national and EU/EEA level. I assume that the findings and solutions are actively used in the further work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. This applies not least to the reduction of barriers to the free movement of persons with disabilities. The expert group’s report points to a number of practical and formal obstacles that continue to contribute to putting considerable restrictions on the individual’s ability to move freely in the Nordic region, with the same possibilities for life-exploitation as functional health. From an international perspective, all Nordic countries have a good offer for people with disabilities, but at Nordic level there is still something missing. Several of these obstacles have been known for years and are pointed out by Border Obstacle Forums and others, and it is time to find solutions. This applies to various issues such as the use of a assistance dog when travelling, the right to a personal assistant when moving across borders, the ability to bring with him an appropriate vehicle or the movement of persons at an institution. Each issue may not affect many, but it is important and can be very restrictive for the individual. Some questions, such as the possibility of moving between institutions in the Nordic countries, are also at the heart of the possibility of freedom of choice for individuals and families and, ultimately, of personal dignity. This is precisely why it should also be possible to find good solutions to these kinds of issues. The expert group’s report points to a possible future revision of today’s Nordic Convention on Social Services as a solution to address these issues. It's an opportunity I hope the Nordic governments will consider. As I said, I hope that the findings and solutions outlined in the expert report are now actively used in the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e552	One of the assignments that I remember best from my time as president of the Nordic Council was the mission to go far into the Finnish forests to meet the Nordic Prime Ministers and convince them that we needed greater political power behind the Nordic border-blocking work. I then told about former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter from Denmark, who, on behalf of the Nordic Prime Ministers, had a special task of going to the ministers of the different Nordic countries and getting them to do something about completely concrete border obstacles. I remember as a minister that I got a letter from Poul Schlüter with a list – a short but important list – of things that I had to do with. It wasn't enough; after a few months, Poul Schlüter came to my office in the Ministry of Health and asked what I had done with it – he had this on behalf of the Nordic Prime Ministers, including the Prime Minister I served at the time. I am convinced that a political pressure on this level is necessary if border barriers are to be addressed, because a Council of State is reasonably short. Now some government councils have been sitting for a very long time right now, but the average is a government council fairly short. Prioritisation of the work on frontier barriers does not necessarily give rise to the short-term political outreach, which I do have some suspicion of being concerned about. That's why it's necessary that there's a continuous pressure from the highest team to get this done, because this is about people's everyday lives, and it's important for us as elected and government members. Then this Border Obstacle Forum was established, commissioned by the prime ministers, so the trip into the Finnish forests had some benefits. I believe that there is still a great deal to be desired in terms of the political pressure on this, but I am very pleased with the political seriousness behind this, and the strong commitment that is now expressed in all the Nordic parliaments. There is something I have never experienced before that you have had one and the same theme on the agenda as eaten like this during a limited period of time. This shows that the Nordic Council wants to do something about it. The reason for this is not to want to remove all possible barriers to borders, because border barriers can be politically justified and have good grounds for doing so. My experience as the Council of State was that border barriers always had a justification, bureaucratic and technical – that's what we have to have here – but that wasn't always a good reason, and that wasn't always a political justification. These are the obstacles that we have to overcome, those that are, for example, the most important. There are different rules with regard to heights of stairs, door widths and standard for bathrooms in Nordic countries, which cost society more than 1.4 billion. kr. Such unnecessary barriers are too expensive, even in the Nordic communities as well as they are. Differences in national building rules act as barrier barriers in the Nordic region and limit house producers who have import and export activities. There's no reason it should be like that. Unwarranted border barriers create unnecessary looting and sequestration for individuals, such as: If you are a trained car repairman in Sweden, you cannot get a similar job in Norway, but if you come from Germany, you will be fine. Why in the world should it be like this? That is not politically justified, and that is something that should be done. I also think that there is reason to say that in the situation we are now in, where the Nordic countries that are members of the EU and who have a mature relationship with it, and we who are not members of the EU, but EEA countries, should cooperate much more strongly in the implementation of EU directives. There are too many examples of different implementations creating new barriers and making this barrier work a sisyphos work – if you haven't solved a problem before, ten new ones have been created. That is why I want to make myself a strong spokesman for the continuation of what has started in Nordic cooperation, both in the Council of Ministers and in the Council, by putting common EU interests on the agenda. There are enough examples of where there are no common interests, but where there are common interests, we should work together to avoid new frontier barriers imposed on us from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e572	Today’s debate on how the Nordic countries can best facilitate economic growth – and thus more well-being – by reducing border barriers is an important debate. There is also – as many have been – an event in itself that the Nordic parliaments are debating this issue almost at the same time. In its good report, the Council of State outlined several areas in which the Nordic countries should cooperate more and be better coordinated in order to build up different border barriers. Several others have also been involved in concrete barriers that we have to build down. I will therefore not spend any more time on this. The Council of State referred to the work of the Action Plan on Frontier Barriers and furthered the Nordic legislative cooperation. These are key areas of action in order to clarify how we can approach the challenges in a holistic way. I fully support the outlined progress and balanced presentation of the Council of State. The final report of the expert group set up by the Nordic Council of Ministers was, as we all know, recently presented. There it is sketched approx. 35 different border barriers in the labour and social field. This work will, of course, be useful in the further work on the action plan. It goes without saying that a very thorough and comprehensive effort is needed to find the right solutions to the barriers outlined in this fresh report. The vast majority of these solutions will have major administrative and economic implications. For each country this will certainly lead to a type of dietary benefit assessment. By this I mean: will the individual proposals for solutions to each barrier pay off in the long term for each country – and therefore for the whole Nordic region? Populistically speaking, each country will ask itself: What’s in it for me? I am, however, initially optimistic about being built up and getting rid of several of the border barriers in question. Nevertheless, we must have some realism in our ambitions and goals. Although we in the Nordic region are the same in many areas, we are – as others have said before me – also different, not least in view of our different welfare systems, which are the result of the governance of different political parties by the respective countries. It is practised, among other things: different duties and rights in the labour market. Individual countries have partly different safety nets, through, for example: social security and social security schemes. Some countries also have schemes that are specifically adapted to the objectives of each country, for example: different arrangements to promote gender equality. One of the cross-border barriers that has been pointed out is the papacy issue, the father quota, for which we have a political majority in Norway. This was also the subject of the Council of State. I'll still spend some time on this. It may well be that fathers from a Nordic country other than Norway who have their wife and children in their country of origin feel unfair that they are not allowed to withdraw their father’s quota when working in Norway. But I think it would be wrong for Norway to finance a paper mission, which is intended to promote equality in Norway, for residents of another Nordic country, where they have neither the same system nor the same political objective. However, if the other Nordic countries introduce a paper issue similar to that in Norway, I believe it would be natural for the fathers who work in Norway but who live in one of the other Nordic countries to receive this welfare benefit in Norway as well. The rest of my speaking time, I want to apply to some of the challenges with open borders. Open borders are important to stimulate growth and well-being. We in the North are also dependent on open borders in the rest of Europe. The Schengen Agreement is essential, including: to provide sufficient labour. But we also see a backside of the Schengen Medal. We are experiencing an increase in the arrival of poor people coming from regions with great distress. I understand that they are applying here, because we have a high standard of living and good welfare arrangements. We also see an increase in organized crime. This poses major challenges for all Nordic countries. My call and my wish are that we in the Nordic Council will be able to focus even more on the challenges this presents us. Together, we can do more with regard to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e600	Norway is in a unique situation. We are lucky to have low unemployment and many job vacancies – not only jobs that require highly skilled labour, but also in very many areas, including jobs that do not require more than higher education. Border barriers and border problems have been the topic for a long time, and much has been solved. Foreign workers work well, especially Nordic workers. There are small language problems, they're used to the same way of working, and they come from roughly the same culture. But there may be major problems when they get sick, when they get laid off, or when they get laid off. It is a long wait to get sick money, which I think should go completely automatically. It has been a very long wait to get the daily allowance and the E301 form. I was very happy when I heard that the waiting period was down for three weeks, and I would like to thank you for taking this problem seriously. I have asked various government councils three times questions in this matter and have done most. I'm very happy that this seems to have been taken care of. Waiting times create social problems and burden social systems unnecessarily. A new problem has arisen. I get many enquiries as a result of restrictions on how the permit regulations in Norway are practised. As a result, many people do not have the right to a daily allowance when they leave. This greatly affects foreign workers working in the construction, hotel and service sectors, but also in the health sector. It's unclear what is considered seasonal work. It can also be seen that different employees from the same company are treated differently by Nav. Permitted persons have the right to a daily allowance in the country in which they work, but if they are cancelled, the country in which they live is responsible for the payment. Perhaps the reason for the tightening up of the regulations is exactly what the minister said instead — you don’t want to export social security schemes. But this also affects those who work and live in the same country, it also affects the Nordics. I am therefore asking the government to review the entire rules on leave and to ensure a fair system that provides workers – regardless of the country from which they come – with information and predictability as to their rights before taking a job, not on the day of their leave. Another problem is the employer’s fee. Swedish workers who take a job in Norway are not allowed to work alongside Sweden, even if they do not have a full job. The reason why Norwegian employers require this is that they have to pay Swedish employers’ fees, which are much more expensive. This prevents Swedish workers from working what they have the opportunity to do in their home country, while having a job in Norway. I see it as a major barrier and believe that it is something that can easily be removed. Rehabilitation has been recorded. Bilateral agreements on rehabilitation issues are now under way, and the Progress Party believes that it should be possible to take rehabilitation in the home country if appropriate. However, we would like to have this thoroughly investigated, look up to the IA agreement and the requirements we set for the follow-up of the sick person, so that he will return to work quickly and also participate partly in the work during the healthcare and rehabilitation period, which we see may be difficult in cases where the sick person is staying in the home country. So it was the spring quota, which was also taken up by Tove-Lise Torve. The Progress Party is not to export a lot of social security schemes, but we want fair arrangements, and we want equality. This is a question of equality. It is gender discrimination if Swedish women are to be able to earn up on the family quota that Swedish men are to take out, and Norwegian men who work in Norway are not to be allowed to take out their father's quota in Sweden. This is about gender discrimination. If you don't want to export that kind of social security, it's going to apply to everyone, and then it has to be made clear, even so that those in the situation are informed about it before they get into it. I'm not going to say that there's only one way to solve it, but the solution that can be used is for fathers and mothers to process their rights separately, linked to their wages and their employment. In the case of applications for disability benefit, it is also problematic if a person has worked in, for example: 20 years in Sweden and 10 years in Iceland, or if it is in Norway, and returns to their home country — in this case Iceland — where they are granted 30 pst. disability benefit, and then the other country, where she worked earlier, does not want to grant disability benefit because they think she can work in special cases. There are some problems with our social security systems, and I think it is especially important to go through everything we have of social security systems, given that we now have to deal with Europe as a whole, not just the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e627	This is marked by the fact that there is an incredibly important debate we have gathered about today, and it goes like a red thread that politicians have to take control of the cross-border work. Border barriers weaken growth and make it difficult for Nordic citizens to commute between countries – we have many examples of this. To solve the obstacles, more political will and clear orders are needed for bureaucracy. Political will may have been for a long time, but there has been a lack of action, and there are no politicians other than us who can carry this out. Who else is going to do it? We want to, but we won't. Both the Border Obstacle Forum and the Nordic Council are focusing on these issues, so there is no excuse that we cannot start now and have even more pressure in it. The Nordic Trade Union Confederation has pointed out, among other things, that the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Border Obstacle Forum do a good job, not least focusing attention on border barriers, but are somewhat weakened in terms of solutions – we have many examples of this. I'll quote Ole Norrback, the leader of the Border Barrier Forum: ‘Border barriers are created at a faster pace than we can solve them’. If that's the case, we're at least going to have to go even more than we've done. Everyone agrees that if we remove frontier barriers, it is possible to gain a socio-economic advantage for the whole of the Nordic region – and it must be in everyone’s interest – that will help make the Nordic region a more forward-looking region. Many thousands of people commute across borders between the Nordic countries every day. Many move from one country to another because of work, studies — and love, as was said earlier. The increased cross-border mobility of labour contributes positively to cooperation between countries. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about, among other things. a barrier that the undersigned has been very concerned about, and about which I have received many enquiries. I'll try my broken Swedish – the stenographers will get this letter afterwards, don't be afraid. I will refer to an e-mail that I received from a Swedish person, and he writes as follows: «Subject: Swedish car in Norway as commuter. Hey, writing when I saw your name in a similar case. I am a lone commuter to residence Sweden where I have an independent home together with my partner. According to both Swedish and Norwegian tax rates, I live in Sweden. I only tax my income from jobs in Norway in Norway, other income and wealth are valued in Sweden. However, I find it difficult to get my commuting between jobs in Kongsberg and housing in Gothenburg when I comply with Swedish and Norwegian customs rules: According to Swedish rules, I have to have a Swedish car in the EU as a resident in Sweden. According to Norwegian rules, I have to have a Norwegian car in Norway. That is, I have to have a car on each side of the border. There is an opportunity in the Norwegian regulation for the two customs authorities to agree: The interim regulation says: «If a person is deemed to have a permanent residence in more than one country under the laws of the Nordic countries, the dispute is resolved by a consultation between the customs authorities of the countries concerned. The customs region shall carry out the consultation.’;» According to the Customs Service, however, consultation with Sweden is not used of practice in my case. With reference to the similar case, what happens to change the situation? With Kind Greetings...» When I address this issue also from the pulpit, it's actually because it's not just this case. I became aware of a similar case from the municipality of Hattfjelldal, one of the nearest municipalities to where I came from. So you can't solve it -- that's what this person is. refers to. I mean, we can't have it like that in the future. What are we competing for in the districts? We're actually competing for labour. If we can solve things using each other in the North, we can't let rigid rules break out like in this case. I don't know what's going to happen to this guy, if he quits the job and has to move back again, but we can't have it like that. That is why I think this is an important debate, so I believe that we can jointly resolve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e676	This has so far been a very good debate, which I hope will speed up the work of removing frontier barriers. I am pleased that all the parties have gathered on five concrete proposals that the government is asked to consider. In addition to the five proposals, there were today on our table proposals from the Right, which I would like to comment on. As regards proposal No: 6, from the Right, this is both extensive and, I think, very expensive to implement, because the EEA countries become part of this. The range of this must then be, as I understand it, quite enormous. That's why it's hard to decide to ask the government to consider something that we really know the answer to already. I hope the Council of State might say a little about this in a closing post later. I would ask the government parties so far to oppose this proposal from the Right, because it is as extensive as it is. As regards the Right-wing Proposal, No. 7, I think this is an important proposal that we must be able to put behind everyone. As regards proposal No: 8, I ask if the proposal is necessary. In the past, there were probably more than three months of proceedings, and now it is down for three weeks. I feel that it is difficult to get down further than that, and I think that three weeks of treatment must be acceptable. So I ask that Right assess that proposal, whether it is necessary at all to promote it, or whether they can draw it. I hope the Council of State can say a little about these things in its final article. I think it is good that in the debate as many clear examples of border barriers as people feel create problems for mobility across borders and opportunities for work and study. I think the last post, from Tor-Arne Stroem, that referred to a letter from a Swedish commuter, tells a lot about what we're really facing. We have all received some of these enquiries over the years. In my view, this applies to the quality of life, to the economy and to housing, and to the creation of value in the Nordic countries. I am sure that the Council of State will take with it the examples and recordings that have been made in the debate, in the further work to remove more unnecessary border barriers in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e689	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e692	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for her presentation, which I thought was very good and adequate, and which merges into the range of other good statements from the others in the government. With regard to the debate on frontier barriers, it appears that there are very few policy lines. There is a common Nordic desire to build up as many obstacles as possible. In the Nordic Council, there is unison agreement that this is an area we need to focus on, and it is therefore amazing that all the Nordic parliaments are able to set up a debate on this particular topic almost simultaneously. This gives a clear signal to Nordic citizens that we want to address this to an even greater extent than before. It is also good in Parliament because governments see that parliamentarians are impatient and that they have the support of actively working on this. The background for today's debate is simple: we want good mobility between countries. This stimulates a good labour market, while the relationship between the Nordic countries has always been good. This is what we want to keep going. The Minister for Cooperation pointed out in his presentation several areas where border barriers exist between countries. However, I would like to draw up an area that in some cases leads to frontier barriers: tradition. In the different Nordic countries, there are different traditions that also prevail in rules. Such rules may lead to frontier barriers. Therefore, this dimension must also be included in the assessments made to remove obstacles. In such cases, the government must be a good partner for industries in order to facilitate the removal of such barriers. This I think will be followed up in the work on, among other things. defining what frontier barriers are. I've been to the canteen here at Stortinget and I've been drinking coffee with colleagues where border barriers have been a theme. Of course, it has been discussed informally – and this has been a while since. What hit me was that someone pulls their shoulders and says yes, that's how it is, it's hard to do something about – we've discussed this many times before. So it's kind of an adjective. Therefore, it is now very good that the Minister of Cooperation says so clearly that at least the government does not have such an attitude, rather the opposite, I would say. It is a proactive approach to working towards the introduction of new legislation, which must also be assessed in the context of a barrier-free approach. One shall systematically review the laws, regulations and regulations in force in order to look at the possibilities for the removal of frontier barriers. In short, I think the government statement shows that the next time I drink coffee and cross-border barriers is a theme, it is I who with a shoulder pull can say that yes, these are things that are now solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e705	‘But we can’t see that boundary under water’ is one of the immortal lines of Heide-Steen Jr., and he may have thought that it was a competitive advantage for Russian submarines as long as they didn’t go down. Of course, Nordic cooperation does not go on the ground, but it hinders exchanges – and cross-border exchanges of labour. We have everything from the big obstacles that Per-Kristian Foss had to do with the exchange of lines here in the case of banks, where we now actually interpret a common regulatory framework in such a way that Norwegian banks appear weaker than they should, despite having stricter regulation than their Nordic colleagues – it is so serious issues that it will get focus in any case – and down to the small, irritating obstacles for individuals. I myself live right by the border. This is about work, it's about school, as you've been in the debate, and it's about anger for individuals, as the Højbråt so well described it. It is that it does not always get so much attention, but it deserves a lot of attention, because it is clear that in border regions this is an important part of creating growth and development – it is about exchanging both ways. It was good that the representative Sønsterud brought it up with transportation. It is clear that we are not a member of the EU, so there is often a white spot on the map on the other side of the border. Planning transport projects and exchanges should at least know what is on the other side of the border. Transportation must always have focus. I also think that the introduction of new rules with impact assessments is important. The D number I've had with the Minister of Finance before. It is a matter of personally meeting in a tax office to get a D-number. I heard a story today about a driver from Sunne who was going to start at a transport company in Eidskog. So he has to use one day to travel to Lillestrøm to get that D-number in person. So here's the right suggestion very much apart. It also goes the other way. If a Northman who lives in Flisa, my hometown, travels to Sysselbeck, who is five to six miles away, takes a job and moves, he must also, when moving back, go to Hamar or Lillestrøm to confirm his identity in order to return to Norway. That, I believe, is an undesirable obstacle. I had hoped that all the parties could support the proposals put forward by the Right, because it was about focusing on the small obstacles and getting the obstacles that actually anger people every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e718	There is an exciting debate that is now taking place in all the Nordic countries — almost parallel, and I think it is great to be part of it. Thank you to the Minister for Cooperation for a good start to this debate. I think she shows many of the challenges we face, including possible solutions. Border barriers may well be part of what Nordic cooperation should be able to do. There are many fields. The debate also shows that it is comprehensive and exciting. It's about people's everyday lives. One of the obstacles that we social democrats in the Nordic countries have talked a lot about is borderline barriers to vocational training, i.e. proposal No. 4, recommending the government to find a Nordic solution for the right of professionals to work in their professions in the Nordic countries on the basis of their national vocational training. Because not all Nordic countries approve the education of other Nordic countries, even on the grounds of the law and that other things are not in conformity. An opportunity outlined is to introduce an additional course so that a person can quickly put in place what is required. There is also something recommended by the Nordic Border Obstacle Forum. I want to give you a few examples. An Icelandic electrician may not be able to obtain authorisation in Norway if he has not worked for two years in his home country. The question is, is education so different? Isn't it socially expensive if we put such restrictions in a market that's going to be one? And we need the skills. Border barriers also exist in the area of health and authorisation. One example I want to go forward is naprapater. Naprapat is an authorised title in Sweden, but not in Norway. It may have consequences for patient safety in Norway. A person who is deprived of his or her authorisation due to poor work in Sweden can freely work here in Norway, which does not require the same authorisation. The proposal we adopted at the last autumn session of the Nordic Council on a common Nordic register of health professionals is therefore important to put in place. Without it, you can't catch up to these situations, because there is a need for an authorisation that can be lost if you do a bad job and fail your profession. Without the register in place, it has been shown to be free. If we don't have a similar practice with regard to health authorisations, we can see that it could compromise patient safety. The mobility of labour in the Nordic countries has challenges, and we need each other's labour force. It's easy to move around – language, culture and society are quite similar. Then we must not make rigid arrangements that prevent us from using each other's knowledge and competence. The challenges I outline, which are outlined here, can be solved by cooperation on education and authorisation requirements. I think a debate like this can show us these challenges and put them on the political agenda. Then we'll solve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e737	The conclusion of this debate, with a good number of speakers, is that this is a problem that we agree to solve. I have to say, however, that I am surprised at the focus that many speakers have had on the fact that there must be quite a large number of exceptions here, due to strange policies. If all countries were to adopt such an attitude, we would never be able to get a borderless Nordic, we would always get new and significant border barriers. About a year ago, the evening post had an interview with the Swedish Minister of Trade. There she went through a number of trade policy barriers that she thought Norway had against Sweden. In an exemplary way, she pointed to the madness of many of these obstacles. I could imagine that the Minister of Cooperation used some time to explain what the Norwegian authorities have done in view of the points pointed out by the Swedish Minister of Trade in that article. Finally, I would like to say that the Progress Party supports the three proposals that have been put forward by the Right in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e746	I just want to comment on Bendiks H. Arnesen's comments on Right three proposals. I am a little surprised that the Vice-President of the delegation to the Nordic Council introduces a new scheme, namely that all border barriers to be controlled should not cost any money. It's a new principle. Proposal No. 6 may cost some money, but it requires that all Nordic youth come to Norway to study — if it is not a mutual benefit. By removing border barriers in this area, we can benefit Norwegian citizens in other countries and Nordic citizens also in Norway. I am surprised that asking their government is so careful to consider a proposal that may cost some money, but that can bring benefits to young citizens. With regard to the comments on proposal No. 8, I think they're due to a lack of knowledge about the scheme. I myself sent a written question to the finance minister who was answered last week. It is quite rightly explained that the procedure has fallen, but there is still a high travel distance to most tax offices where this can be resolved. It has begun to set up a system that I think makes sense. The scheme is that rather than going to the tax office, the tax office may come to you, for example. to South Varanger, a few days a week to get away from where there are quite large quantities of other workers. Similar schemes can be introduced elsewhere. So I'm asking you to do more of what you've started in the red-green government, but even that's what you're being held back from. With such an attitude to remove frontier barriers, I don't think anything is being done. Nothing will be done – that is the place of the government party. I'm sorry, but I record that you won't even ask your own government to consider removing border barriers in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e755	Words such as ‘historic’ and ‘unique’ have been used about the debate that is taking place here in Norway today and in the other Nordic countries either before or after us. The theme creates commitment and shows impatience in the case of unfair frontier barriers. I have a few comments on the three proposals on the Right. I understand the concerns of Bendiks H. Arnesen for the proposal No. 6 might be too expensive, and the question of proposal no. 8 is necessary. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party chooses to support the proposals from the Right. These are recommendations to the government to assess, and it must be unproblematic, I believe, to get an assessment of these obstacles from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e764	The Nordic countries have few inhabitants, and better cooperation in the health sector is important. In particular, this might apply to those who have rare diseases. The welfare committee has had a case in which they have encouraged to form a centre of expertise in order to exchange experience and provide faster diagnosis and better treatment for patients with rare diseases. This is a matter that is urgent, because it concerns people every day who do not get the health care they need. Another thing is transport systems and user-driven personal assistance, which was mentioned here. There are not only border barriers between countries, there are border barriers between the Norwegian municipalities. In Oslo, there are also barriers between the different parts of the city: moving from one city to another, losing the right to a user-controlled personal assistant and having to apply again. So it's probably a problem that Norway has to solve nationally before you can expect it to be solved through the Nordic countries. I hope that happens. When it comes to authorizations, which Sonja Mandt brought up here, I think it's also important. The naprapates, mentioned above, have been authorised since 1994 in Sweden. There is also public education in Finland. There are over 900 naprapaths in Sweden and close to 400 in Norway now. They treat several thousand patients every day, and they do not obtain authorisation or cooperate with the public health services or with the Nav offices in Norway. This prevents Swedes who have the opportunity to work in the public health system in Sweden from taking up a job in the public health system in Norway. I believe that an application for authorisation has been submitted in Norway, and I also hope that the other Nordic countries will approve the courses, which will extend the treatment offer within that disease group many people suffer from in our Nordic countries, just muscle and skeletal diseases. Then there is the enforcement of penalties. I have raised a matter in the Nordic Council, but I still have not received a response from the different governments. The question was sent on 18 January; it was three months ago, the deadline for answering was six weeks. It concerns people who have been deprived of the right to keep animals and who move to another country and are allowed to keep animals there. I believe that we should be able to coordinate in the Nordic region in the same way as we do when we lose the certificate, for example. It is not possible to drive in other countries either because of drunk driving. If you lose the right to keep animals because of gross abuse or neglect, you should not be able to have that right in the other Nordic countries either. I'm excited about the answer when it comes. I would like to remind you that there are a lot of foreign workers coming to Norway right now. The committee was talking to Skatt west last week, and they could tell that there were 2,500 new applications for tax cards from foreigners only in February. It is a major challenge both to care for our social security systems and to ensure equal treatment for those who come here to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e779	I have come to realize that the debate is starting to go to the end and I want to thank you for a lot of good input. The debate here has shown that there is a great deal of commitment to Nordic issues and in particular to border barriers. I'm just going to comment very briefly on some of the suggestions that have come up. With regard to the challenges of value added tax through the introduction of different types of machinery and other things, Sweden is now working on how to simplify the scheme. From the Norwegian side, the work is closely followed and similar assessments are also made in Norway. But as was said here, it is a work that is demanding, because you have to make sure that the control systems are good. There have also been many questions related to Bjørnfjell here today, and I have now checked it up and been told that there have been meetings between the department, industry, county council and agency with a view to getting extended opening hours in the holidays next year. There are other issues that have also been mentioned. I think many of the frontier barriers that have been in focus today are about social security and social security. It is a Nordic Convention on Social Security which is now renegotiated and which aims to sign in a meeting of the Nordic Social Ministers in June 2012. There is also a Convention on Assistance, where a draft was drawn up in 2006, as it is, in the light of the report we now have, there is reason to look at it again and to ensure that it continues. Otherwise I just want to mention a few other points. I was asked to comment on the suggestions that were made by Per-Christian Foss. Bendiks H. Arnesen commented on them, but I just want to look at the wording of proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox There is no wording in which to consider: ‘It is recommended that the government harmonise the rules.’ It is a proposal that I am unable to see the consequences. [[...]] The rules must then be able to be what they are like in each country. I would recommend that you at least spend some time investigating this before you decide to recommend it. Finally, I just want to say that the work on border barriers is exciting and demanding. It starts to become quite a number of different bodies working with border barriers, and I believe that the initiative we are taking now, both for the preparation of an action plan and for looking at the organisation, is an important work. I think it's important that we also take it into account in the further work, so that there aren't so many instances that we finally go a little wild in everyone who's going to drive inside that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e795	Just a brief comment: Of course, I do not intend to stop working with frontier barriers because it costs money. What we're going for today costs money, we shouldn't be in doubt about that, but I guess we all have the sense that we're going to do that. As regards proposal No: 6 and the other proposals, it is not recommended to consider, it says that it is recommended to do so. So if the Right believes that it's "appraisers" to stand there, then it has to be corrected. As it says in all three proposals now, it says that the government is advised to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e802	Just a brief comment on the state council's comment that she checked out about Bjørnberg, that you should look at opening hours in the holidays. With all due respect, it's good to be able to get it open in the holidays, but it's closed there every night 365 days a year. The industry is not just dependent on keeping it open during the holidays, so I ask the Council of State to include it in the government. We have recorded that the debate on border barriers in the Nordic region is not important enough for the Prime Minister himself to come here, he does have other more important tasks, obviously. I find it regrettable that there is no more pressure on the part of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is not often in this Chamber, it has never happened that a Prime Minister has been so small in this Chamber as what we have experienced in this period. In any case, I would like to ask the Council of State to take it into the government that it does not just help to keep things open during the holidays – business is actually at work 365 days a year. Then it's us politicians who have to put the framework conditions, so that business gets to do what they're going to do, and pay taxes and taxes to society that we can use in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e809	Proposal No. 6 is a proposal for a recommendation. I have full confidence that the government is able to investigate. If there is something I trust in regarding this government, it is that they are at least able to spend time investigating. I note that under a previously concluded Nordic agreement – between the Nordic countries, of course – the right to study in each other’s countries has been recognised. I thought it would include all the people and not just those who could afford to do it without getting a scholarship. I assumed that study support was part of the Nordic system, as I have learned that social democracy, at least in the old days, thought. If this is a right to be reserved for those who can finance their studies without public support, I have to say that I have perceived the policy of the government somewhat differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e816	I am of those who have worked a lot to get international cooperation in the Nordic region on research and education. Among other things, I have work with research schools across universities in the Nordic countries, which the Nordic Council is helping to finance. But taking such a proposal without any more justification, I thought I was a little demanding. As far as I know, Sweden now decides to introduce school money at universities – something we don't have in Norway. Does this mean that the Nordics will be able to study in Sweden without paying school money? There are some of the complications that I feel that no one has answered over the table. It's not a bad will, but it's not so stupid to know what a decision is – not even in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e821	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e837	Norwegian business is becoming increasingly internationalised. Foreign enterprises invest in Norway and Norwegian enterprises invest abroad — not least in emerging economies and in developing countries. Global shifts in power and changes in patterns of trade and investment also bring about a significant change in the risk and competitiveness of Norwegian business in the coming years. It's positive for the Norwegian economy that we're investing out. However, there is no concealment that investment in emerging economies has a significant economic risk — greater than elsewhere. Investment in such countries is also more risky than traditional trade, as there are long-term investments. They have to cope with political shifts and other societal changes, which may come in a hurry in some places. The long-term profile of investments means that gains are only collected over a long period of time. Of course, the political risk is greatest when projects are in the harvest phase and it appears to be profitable. In this context, so-called bilateral investment agreements may represent a security network that protects the economy of investments throughout their lifetime. This, of course, makes it easier to run an investment risk. The situation for Norwegian enterprises at the moment is that they are worse off with regard to this type of safety net than other Nordic countries — and most other European countries — all of which have a better system than we have for our businesses. I have understood the foreign activities of the government, and not least the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, so that they would like Norwegian companies to invest out – and not least in emerging economies – because of all the positive effects created by the investment. This is not just about the positive effects on Norwegian enterprises — employment, skills building and increased tax revenues for those countries where this is happening. Today, there is considerable uncertainty, and too little predictability, about the legal framework for investment protection in many developing countries. Therefore, many companies choose to invest via corporate, financial, overseas or other means. The direct conclusion of bilateral investment agreements with central developing countries could increase predictability and increase Norwegian direct investment in this type of country, thus reducing the need for heavy-duty detours. It is a fact that several developing countries have contacted the Norwegian authorities in order to conclude this type of investment agreement, but it is not possible to do so. It is clear that this weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian industrial establishments. In the last ten years, direct investment by Norwegian enterprises, other than the EU and the United States, has doubled. We only have 16 investment agreements – much fewer than all comparable countries. Sweden has four times as many. The EFTA country Switzerland has well over 100. Developments are moving towards more use of this type of protection agreements — including as elements of trade agreements, and also between industrialised countries. An agreement containing the acceptance of non-discriminatory treatment of investments, full safeguards against arbitrary exercise of powers and compensation in the event of expropriation as well as free access to operational capital transfers and dispute resolution bodies could attract investments for developing countries, even if institutions, legislation and the economy would otherwise be a bit in the loop, as is often the case. In 2008, Norway got a so-called model agreement after it had been silent in this area for a long time, but the perception among Norwegian companies is clear; this agreement has weaknesses – too many weaknesses. In the case of expropriation, where the principles of compensation for losses and effective and adequate compensation are unclear, are poorly designed. Requirements for the discharge of national remedies before international arbitration can be used also give too weak access to enforcement of investors’ rights in the event of breach of the contract and there should be a greater and faster possibility of arbitration. The scope of the dispute resolution mechanism, which relates only to breaches of the contract itself and not of the investment contract, also provides investors with reduced opportunities to reach their demands in a conflict situation — and that is the conflict situation in question. Investment from foreign enterprises is an important driver of economic and social development in the emerging economies, and of course it is important to increase wealth and reduce poverty in this type of country. Experience has shown that such investments contribute to higher revenues for local employees, to more modern production methods, and to the introduction of new technologies – not only in the company concerned, but they often spread to other local enterprises. Good examples have an infectious effect, not only in our country, but worldwide. Bilateral investment agreements therefore provide for increased security and security of investment in developing countries, but there should be no instrument to influence developments in these countries; there should be no instrument to influence regulation of business rights and obligations. Of course, every country is free. However, the agreements are likely to discriminate against the recipient countries in complying with the agreements, and are of course seen as a positive signal of willingness to invest abroad. And from a country like Norway, these are important signals. It is therefore important that investment agreements can become a natural part of the free trade agreements concluded by Norway and that such agreements are also concluded when there is a clear need for this type of safety net for Norwegian investments. We need these agreements, including: in the BRIC countries. We need them in the new economies of Asia, such as Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam and Korea – Turkey is a current country – and in Africa, of course, with South Africa at the head, but also in very many other countries. The EU now seems to give priority to this type of investment agreement, and I think that is a very important signal. The EU has transferred its competence to negotiate this type of agreement from Member States to EU level. This means that EU trade policy will in future include the protection of foreign direct investment. The Commission has been given a negotiating mandate to negotiate with, inter alia: Canada, India and Singapore, and during the summit between China and the EU in February of this year, it agreed to start negotiations on this type of investment agreement. I do not think that Norway should have industrial policy conditions that are worse than what the EU has or will get through its new regime. Agreements must be in place which confer adequate and effective rights in relation to the risks involved. Equivalence in terms of conditions of competition for Norwegian companies is, of course, absolutely central, so that no one gives a weaker legal position than the agreements of the other country give. Then there has been a debate over some time about how this type of investment agreement stands in terms of our constitutional provisions, and that the Constitution can be an obstacle to developing and concluding such agreements. It is difficult to see that this may be a problem as long as the agreements are limited to compensation and international law testing, but it would be interesting to hear the position of the Council of State also on this issue, which, as far as I know, has been very thoroughly investigated by the Legal Faculty of Oslo, without finding this relationship problematic. I believe that this matter is simply about whether one has the will and the necessary power to take action to change the situation in order to better facilitate the efforts of Norwegian business in emerging economies, in developing countries, with the positive ring-effects that it will bring to business at home, and with the ring-effects that it will bring to those countries with which we cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e877	The interpellant addresses the situation of Norwegian enterprises investing in emerging economies in countries where there will often be a lack of predictability of the legal framework and/or a significant political risk associated with the investment. The government is committed to promoting Norwegian investment abroad. This is central to the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises, and we know that Norwegian enterprises abroad are contributing positively to social and economic development in the type of country that is the theme of the interpellation. It is therefore important for the government to contribute to Norwegian companies meeting transparent and predictable framework conditions. We do so in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, and through free trade agreements concluded with individual countries or customs unions in cooperation with EFTA, or by Norway alone. We also carry out political visits and are door-to-doors in markets where the board of directors makes regulatory contact necessary to ensure companies fit in. Commission schemes and cooperation groups are other examples of important contributions to contacts on general framework conditions and individual cases for Norwegian enterprises. The Norwegian embassies and local representation are important. Innovation Norway currently has offices in over 30 countries. These are mandated to assist Norwegian enterprises internationally. In the case of bilateral investment protection agreements, also called BITs, which are the main theme of the inter-pellant, there has been a difficult case since the mid-1990s, and several governments of different denominations have tried to find a solution. The reason why this has been difficult is that the investor’s right to, and the need for, protection and the right of States to regulate on their territory must be balanced. An investment protection agreement is intended to protect foreign investment against undue interference from the host country. This is particularly true in countries where political risks are high. Traditionally, these agreements have been concluded between capital-exporting and capital-importing countries, or, if you like, agreements between developed countries and developing countries. For capital-exporting countries, the intention has been to protect their investors, while capital-importing countries have wanted to attract investment. The picture is now somewhat more nuanced — most countries are both exporting capital and importing capital, and the agreements have become more truly reciprocal. These are bilateral agreements, and they vary somewhat in form and content, but most are based on models developed in the OECD in the 1960s, and there are some common features that go back. The agreements are concluded between countries, but they grant direct rights to individuals and undertakings. They typically contain provisions that give a foreign investor the right to compensation in the event of expropriation and nationalisation, the right to fair, fair and non-discriminatory treatment, and not least the right to promote its case for an international arbitration tribunal if the investor considers the investment protection agreement to be broken. This is the last thing that has been difficult mainly in the Norwegian context. Is it true that an international arbitration tribunal, consisting of lawyers elected ad hoc, should be able to judge Norwegian laws and regulations as contrary to the Treaty and to award compensation to foreign investors on the basis of this, with binding effect and without the possibility of appeal? This was considered so problematic that in the mid-1990s it was decided to wait for further negotiations on investment protection agreements until a solution was found. Questions were raised as to whether there was at all an opportunity to enter into agreements with such content without conflicting with the Constitution § 88 that the Supreme Court ruled in the last instance. This was during the negotiations on a multilateral investment agreement in the OECD, the so-called MAI agreement, and it was assumed that a good solution had to be found in that context. But the MAI negotiations did not go completely on rails and were concluded without reaching agreement. Since then, several aspects of the traditional investment protection agreements have been highlighted as unfortunate, such as: the expropriation provision. Several attempts have been made over the years to find a solution, and the biggest effort was made when the Stoltenberg II government set up a State Secretary's Committee to establish a new model agreement for future bilateral investment agreements. The committee, assisted by an official group, worked on the draft for two years and was sent to the hearing in 2008. The main purpose of the work was to strike a proper balance between investor rights and the action rooms of the countries. The result was a model agreement that deviated from traditional BIT by giving the host Member State some room for action. However, the hearing revealed that no one was satisfied. In general, the industry side considered that work on the model agreement had gone too far in ensuring the host country’s access to regulation at the expense of the investor’s need for protection. Other organisations that are generally more sceptical about trade and investment were strongly negative to the draft model agreement and to the conclusion of investment agreements at all. In 2009 it was decided not to go further with the work on a general schedule for investment protection agreements, but to assess the need for, and the design of, provisions for the protection of trade agreements with India, Ukraine, Russia and China. The interpellant suggests that BITs are an important tool to ensure that Norwegian companies invest in countries with high political risks. In the work on the proposal for a new model agreement, we reviewed a number of studies that have been carried out to determine their impact. These studies are not unambiguous, but there is reason to argue that the agreements do not have as much importance as the followers refer to the promotion of investment. It was also a vision that emerged during the consultation round. Several companies underlined that the existence of a bilateral investment protection agreement was not so important when assessing potential countries to invest in. However, it is easy to understand that Norwegian companies that have invested abroad, and especially in countries where the political risk is high, want to secure their investments as best they can. In this way, BITs can be a suitable instrument. But as responsible politicians, we also need to look at the other side of the issue, namely what consequences it can have for Norway that foreign investors use such agreements against us, and what consequences it can have for the political space in developing countries and in emerging economies. Norway was very early to see the danger signals of this type of agreement and what negative effects they could have on the host country. Later, a number of other countries have also gained a more nuanced view of these agreements. Countries such as South Africa and Australia have decided not to include investor-state dispute resolution in their agreements, and a number of other countries make similar assessments. In the EU, after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Commission has now been mandated to negotiate investment protection agreements. It is too early to say what the new EU agreements will look like, but there is also a discussion about where the right balance point between investor protection and the right of States to regulate is to be found. The Government will not exclude the conclusion of investment protection agreements by Norway in the future, but there should be agreements that take into account the right of States to act on their own territory and opportunities for the development of good standards for the environment, workers’ rights and social rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e921	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I choose to interpret him positively. I agree with him that this is not easy. Had it been, it would have been long ago, regardless of governments. But I also think that he may be problematical about things that are clearly not problematic in other countries. As I mentioned in my article, all comparable countries, including the EU, have gone in a different direction. They have concluded several more agreements. Now the Council of State says that they too are about to see the problems – if they see it a little differently, I am more in doubt about it. It seems to me, for example. The EU has moved this up to a higher level to increase its pace. I think it's absolutely right to be careful with regulations on the territory of other countries, which intervene – that's not the point either. But it is quite obvious that it is quite possible to do this when you have done it elsewhere. I'm also a little surprised that the presentation of these studies that have been done shows that this is not very important. I think I'd like to see it a little bit better described. Then it is not that I believe with this interpellation that nothing is done for Norwegian business abroad. There is a lot of work on free trade agreements, the WTO and door opening, which the Council of State itself is doing to a relatively large extent, but here we are talking about the juxtaposition and the security of the values of each company. It is quite obvious that when this is brought into the board for a final decision – if we are going to go into that country, we are going to go into this project – one will look at the risk to one's own economy. That's the way it is everywhere, and I also want to stress that not least our own, and by that I mean the state's own companies, very often actually come into this situation. Norwegian Hydro is a good example of a company that invests out. That is the taxpayers' money. They are at least as important as the equity of private enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e936	If this had been easy, it would have been easy. But this is something that governments of all colors have opposed from the mid-1990s – both the Brundtland government, the Jagland government, the Center government, then a Stoltenberg government, a government in which the Right has been involved, and then again a Stoltenberg government. This has been discussed by many food ministers, and no simple solution has been found that balances all these considerations. For the right, too, it must be a dilemma to build structures that, in worst cases, overtake the Norwegian judicial system and the Norwegian Supreme Court. This is a two-way agreement. It does not only ensure Norwegian investors against unfair interference in other countries, it shall also safeguard the rights of foreign investors in Norway. But how far those rights go in terms of our right to self-determination and the sovereignty of our legal system is a difficult dilemma. We're trying to have a pragmatic approach to this -- not a dogmatic, either on the purely investment protection side or on the purely commercial skeptical side. We are trying to find good solutions that ensure investors' reasonable requirements for protection, while respecting the right of both Norwegian and cooperating countries to decide within their own borders. We think that is fully possible with the agreements that we negotiate, or with the processes that we have in progress. Then, of course, we should also follow developments in the EU carefully, because the EU is struggling with exactly the same balances. So what the EU is doing will also be something we can learn from, draw experiences from and take into account in our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e941	The interpellant addresses the situation of Norwegian enterprises investing in emerging economies in countries where there will often be a lack of certainty in the legal framework and, in fact, a monthly high risk of investment. The Minister stressed that the government is busy promoting Norwegian investment abroad when this is also central to the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises, and when we also know that Norwegian enterprises abroad contributed very positively to the social and economic development of the type of country that is the theme of this interpellation. It is important for us red-green to help Norwegian companies meet open and far-sighted framework conditions. Let's do that. in the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and through free trade agreements. I would also like to highlight the excellent efforts that Innovation Norway is making internationally. Bilateral agreements on investment protection, also known as BITs, are its main theme. As many have said here, it has been a very difficult matter since the mid-1990s, and several governments have tried to arrive at a balanced solution. The reason why it has been difficult is the balance between investors' rights and the need for protection and the state's right to regulate on their own territory. Traditionally, these were often agreements between developed countries and developing countries. Today, most countries are both exporting capital and importing, and the agreements are likely to be more truly reciprocal. The interpellant suggests that BITs are an important tool to ensure that Norwegian companies are still investing in countries with high political risks. The Minister pointed out that in the work on the proposal for a new model agreement, a series of studies were carried out to find out what effect it actually has. Studiana was not clear, but there is reason to argue that the agreements do not have as much meaning as the followers have previously intended when it comes to making investments. Yes, in fact, several companies stress that the existence of a bilateral investment protection agreement did not have a significant impact when assessing potential countries to invest in. This I thought was interesting. However, it can be understood that Norwegian companies will secure their investments abroad, and in this way, BITs may be a good instrument. But what consequences can it have for Norway that foreign investors benefit from such agreements against us, and what consequences can it have for the political space in developing countries and in transitional economies? I would also like to draw up the NGOs, which are generally negative to the conclusion of investment agreements. Yes, many also thought that the model agreement that was proposed went too far in limiting their room for action for the benefit of investors. This shows that the world is not in black and white, and it is not easy to find an easy grip here. I would like to stress that the traditional investment protection agreements, BITs, aim to provide investor protection when the investment is committed. These agreements therefore do not regulate the ability to invest in the host country. It is also worth noting that most of the newer investment agreements contain rules that ensure investor market access. I think it is good that the interpellant takes up the topic, but I am of the opinion that it may be wise to expect what the EU's new agreement will look like, and it is important that we do not exclude that Norway will in the future conclude balanced – I repeat balanced – investment protection agreements. Therefore, I am very pleased with the Minister's reply here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e962	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue, which may not be so often raised in the debates. The more important it is that it is addressed here today, and that through this interpellation, a number of points of view are clarified and clarified on this topic. It is a fact that Norwegian companies are increasingly investing abroad, and this is positive. In the same way, foreign companies invest in Norway, as well as in the purchase of enterprises or parts of them. This is a natural development, and something we're going to be both satisfied with and proud of. This creates competition, which in most cases makes us better, and thus we can stand even stronger against the competition we have with the rest of the world on similar products. It's also a fact that we, i.e. Norway, also increasingly investing in countries in which, for several reasons, it was not natural for us to invest in. This is initially relatively poor countries, and countries where democracy may not have come as far as Western countries. However, there is a lot of positive in these countries, and therefore it is interesting for many companies to invest here. However, often this long-term investment is where there is also an uncertainty as to how the end result will be. These are new arenas, and these must mature. Many developing countries also want more contact with, among others. Norway in order to obtain investment in its country, in terms of financial locations, but also more specifically by establishing farms/factories, etc., to create new jobs with the positive effects on the country. But for several Norwegian kronor, i.e. Investments are to be made in these countries, it must be almost as secure for Norwegian investors as for investors in our neighbouring countries and the EU. Of course, Norwegian companies want their investments to be no worse than those of others. Competition is important, but it must be fair and equal as far as possible. The progress party is aware that there are some agreements, but according to some of the Norwegian companies that have invested, or might think so, the agreements are too poor. The Progress Party believes that with better agreements, investments will also increase, and thus more long-term. Investing will result in better products and the risk of investing in installations such as buildings and factory equipment, etc. As a result, local employees will become more active in the enterprise and thus build up their skills, which in turn can help their own country's well-being and development to increase at a faster pace than now. In conclusion, in order for Norwegian enterprises and investors to be able to increase their involvement in developing countries, better regulation and, in particular, assistance and thus better protection is a unisoned desire from industry. If they do, this will benefit everyone, not least the developing countries themselves, in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e977	Globalization has given better lives for very many people. Solid institutions and a good legal framework provide the predictability that industry needs to invest in emerging economies. Bilateral investment agreements may lift entire continents out of poverty. Norwegian businesses have always seen their own borders. We have been willing to participate in international trade and have earned this. The fact that we invest in other countries, some still at the development stage, is a natural continuation of this. Now we hear about terms like BRIC, MIST and CIVETS. What these concepts show is that emerging economies are going to become a more important part of the world around us in the future. Norway has so far concluded far fewer bilateral investment agreements than our neighbouring countries and the EU. Norway is thus at risk of being put on the sideline. We shouldn't be there. One of the main prerequisites for healthy and sustained global economic growth is the free flow of international capital flows. A most efficient global capital allocation is the guarantor of triggering the enormous global potential for wealth development. Bilateral investment agreements are the oil of the machinery that generates broad economic growth for all. Access to responsible and long-term international capital is essential in many countries in order to create well-founded local growth. The liberalisation of flows of money between countries has led to access to new capital for developing countries. Thus, investments have increased and provided safe jobs for people who had previously lived at a minimum. The size now has to be treated, for example: the management of the SPU, the state pension fund abroad, and I noted during the hearing that the organisations that put it there were even more excited about SPU investing in developing countries than what is signaled in the notification. This shows that there is broad support for the importance of investment, but at the same time there must be security for the money invested abroad. Strong institutions, private property protection and a solid legal state are some of the main keys to economic progress. Research shows that countries have succeeded in creating open and solid institutions that also create inclusive and sustainable economic growth. Open and solid institutions allow all citizens to participate in the value creation. Bilateral agreements on investor protection are precisely about the protection of private property and a sound judiciary. In this way, bilateral agreements will strengthen the social institutions, which are the key to growth. Bilateral investment agreements create the institutional framework that allows for a widely distributed economic growth. It surprises me, therefore, that the government is behind this development. Norway’s well-being is based on a competitive business that creates values. We are a country with a small and open economy and have built our prosperity on trade and international relations. The government's inaction in this matter of bilateral investment agreements is not worthy of our history. Cross-border trade is becoming increasingly important. Then I don't think about the Minister of Agriculture's trip to Sweden, but about our significant international trade in large emerging economies, such as China and Brazil. We don't have much time. While the government dwells on negotiations on the new bilateral investment agreements, the many good projects that could lift people out of poverty remain in the hands of initiative-rich entrepreneurs. I hope that the pace can be set in the work on new agreements, so that Norwegian business can become more competitive, and that several countries in the world can access Norwegian capital, as a basis for economic growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e1003	I want to thank the interpellant for a very important and interesting question. Cross-border investment is important in order to create development and growth. It is generally applicable, but not least in developing countries and emerging economies. The importance of investment for economic growth in developing countries has become increasingly understood. There has been a period when in the development debate there has been a focus on helping the poorest. Gradually, there has been more and more understanding of creating a viable economy. Raising the soundness of the economy is also an important commitment to raising the very poorest. Thus, the understanding now available that Norwegian business, which has a high technological level and has a long international tradition, is also driving investment in emerging economies – both to strengthen itself and at the same time to strengthen the development of emerging economies and developing countries – is very positive. Therefore, it is fully understandable that investors are concerned about the protection of their investments. But here, as the minister points out, there are a lot of cross-cutting concerns that we have to be observant and include in the assessments. We need to balance the concerns of participations with the concerns of national self-government and national democracy. We cannot deprive emerging economies – or ourselves – of the right to pursue an independent environmental policy and an independent tax policy. That's what's actually the case here. We can get international lawyers, who have no anchoring in any nation state, who are going to try to set limits on how much breeding pain we are going to have in Norway, to take a single example. There are some balances that it's important that we take over. We're also going to think a little bit about the power situation in the international community. It's not always the case that investors are small and the states are big. We have some cases where the opposite is the case – how small developing countries with a poorly developed tax collection apparatus and other things have to stick to large, international and global groups that have quite strong forces – both economic and legal – to push through their demands. There is a lot of concern here, whether we really should do what is best for development – both in the emerging economies and in our own country. Therefore, I am pleased that the Minister says that we should follow closely in the debates that are taking place internationally, and then we should move on from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e1022	The only argument on the part of the Council of State that is important, and which can be attributed to weight here, is this with the review of Norwegian law, which I was inside in my main post. It has to do with the relationship to the Basic Law. When the current model agreement was drawn up in 2006, a few professors were asked by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to look at the relationship with the Constitution and the Constitutional Act, Section 26, as regards the issuing of competences reserved for Norwegian courts. When these professors said, Alvik was the one, that given certain assumptions – and I also mentioned that in my post – it was not problematic to enter into new investment agreements and expand the model. The prerequisites are to limit agreements to compensation and international law testing. Now, one of these two gentlemen, Professor Alvik, in a new report, has given a new assessment, where he primarily assesses the current model agreement and its shortcomings – I pointed out to some of them in my introduction post – but also a new relationship with the Constitution. This was a work that was done last summer. When the Council of State refers to following developments – following developments also means seeing if something new emerges – I believe that there is a development here, along two lines: one is the report to Alvik, and as far as he goes into the relationship with the Constitution once again, the other is the development in relation to the world around us. The Council of State also says that there is a development, and that we need to keep track of what other countries do. If the government wants to be more active in this regard, I think you can do Norwegian business a great service – even bigger than by referring to, as it is done here today, that Innovation Norway is doing a good job, and that we are doing a good job through international agreements, etc. That's right, but very often it boils down to the legal balance eventually. And if we can get to it in a better way than today, and at the same time taking into account the Constitution, I think the government should be more active with that. Otherwise, thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e1038	Let me first start by thanking the interpellant for addressing an important and demanding theme. I think it's useful to have it discussed and illuminated in this room, because it's a matter that has a lot of pages, and that requires discussion to find good solutions. And as always when there are conflicting considerations, it is not always the solution to choose one or the other, but to try to find a golden medium-way that respects both self-determination and Norwegian political and judicial decision-making authorities, and also to facilitate a good investment climate in Norway for foreign enterprises, but also in other countries for Norwegian enterprises. It is quite right, as the interpellant said in his first post, that we, on the part of the government, very actively want to support under Norwegian companies' investments and the development of trade cooperation with other countries. We want businesses to look beyond our own continent as well, and to be part of the amazing economic development that is taking place in the emerging economies. That's also why we negotiate trade agreements with many of these countries. In some of these negotiations, investment issues are also a topic, and we will take care of the concerns of the inter-pellant and the participants in the debate, where we balance investors' demands and needs to be protected by the democratic rules that apply in the countries in which we invest. It is this difficult balancing process that we are constantly trying to go, and having a continuous debate on it, and not least how important the frameworks for trade and investment are, are useful. Because I also think it is a reminder to those who are concerned with poverty reduction and development in poor countries that we will never succeed in creating the prosperity that we dream of everyone taking part in, unless business plays an active role, unless we invest in business development and contribute to good trade relations. There's a lot of examples of that. A successful investment in a poor country from a Norwegian company sometimes contributes more tax revenue for that country than what we provide in aid. It shows several examples. That is why it is important to support that development, and we should do so in a good and balanced way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e1047	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e1053	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e1061	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of Bendiks H. Arnesen, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Per-Kristian Foss, Alf Egil Holmelid, Per Olaf Lundteigen and Trine Skei Grande proposals No. 6-8, from Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right Proposals Nos. 1–5, from Rigmor Andersen Eide, Bendiks H. Arnesen, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Per-Kristian Foss, Alf Egil Holmelid, Per Olaf Lundteigen and Trine Skei Grande and the proposals No. 6-8, from the Right, is in its form transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the government assess the involvement of a Nordic Ombudsman under the direction of the Nordic Council of Ministers to which Nordic citizens may address when facing problems caused by different administrative practices in the Nordic countries.’ [[limitation barriers]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the government assess new legislative proposals according to whether they create border barriers in the Nordic region.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is advised to consider establishing a simplified customs clearance of work machines for short and time-limited tasks in the country. The system should provide for exemptions from customs duties on machinery and equipment when imported, but should be combined with a registration system at the border crossing in order to ensure the control requirements of the authorities.’;» [[VAT declaration]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is advised to consider finding a Nordic solution for the right of professionals in Nordic countries to work in their professions in all Nordic countries on the basis of their national vocational training.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the government consider finding a Nordic solution for people living in a Nordic country and working in another country who are affected by occupational injury or long-term illness, so that they can have rehabilitation nearest to their home, thereby avoiding long and burdensome travel to the working country responsible for rehabilitation under the current rules.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the Government, in cooperation with the governments of the other Nordic countries, harmonise study aid rules, which are currently limited by national requirements for citizenship and residence, with a view to increasing the possibility for nationals of the countries to study freely in the Nordic region.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is advised to provide better and more accessible information on the right of Nordic citizens to complete all or part of higher education in another Nordic country.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the government facilitate accelerated procedures and easier access to tax offices for Nordic workers applying for Norwegian d-numbers for remuneration with normal tax rates in Norway.’ The President will propose that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will then propose that the statement by the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church on the work on removing border barriers in the Nordic region be annexed to the minutes. It has been unanimously adopted. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-24.ana.ud2343e1248	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
