ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e55	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 57 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 has been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 2 to 5 at the end of the day’s meeting. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e71	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e80	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. The President can tell us that the reason we're doing this is that the law is to be sanctioned today – and then we did it before the King in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e96	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e105	We will discuss the Framework Area 20 under the Financial Administration, where we will look at the Ministry of Finance and the State budget's 90 entries, and the chapters on the State pension fund abroad. The last thing, with the 90s, is a little bit interesting, because there's a lot of money here that's not covered by the rule of action, that's used through different companies, but we can leave that debate today. The Ministry of Finance says that their priority in 2013 will be to work with the management of State pension funds, work with financial market legislation, increased compliance and efforts against tax evasion and other financial crime, work on sustainable development and climate, and a new common system for reporting employment and income relationships by employers, etc. These are areas which the Financial Committee is behind and which it supports. But for the Progress Party, I would say that although these are important things, the government must – as far as possible – consider the competitive situation of Norwegian business and Norwegian banks when making regulatory changes. Just as when combating economic crime, you must not create such a rigid system that even honest souls are almost criminalized. But I trust that it will be taken into account by the Minister of Finance. There is not much polemics about different positions here, much of this has been discussed in other professional committees already, but from the Progress Party I would like to mention a few things that I think are a little odd, if not otherwise. One is that in this area, money is allocated to both buy and sell climate allowances. It is a little strange that the government is going to buy 19 million allowances and sell 35 million allowances, and a State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance concludes that Norway has to buy allowances. I cannot see any point in that, as we are net sellers. There must be other reasons why one chooses to do this. Of course, the government can argue for that. I think it's very true, especially what the left says, that if you want to cut the CO2 emissions as fast as possible, actually, making the quotas is a better tool than selling quotas – if you want to speed up emission cuts. The opposition is promoting proposals to invest capital in a non-resident fund, i.e. dedicating a small proportion of the oil fund to investing in financial markets in poor countries. I think that is a good proposal that will help to strengthen the development of businesses in the poor countries. I would also like the government parties to assess it more strongly. It is a paradox that last year the government closed down the Research Fund, this year the Cultural Memory Fund, and it is said that the way to finance important actions is not in line with the fund model, which is therefore dependent on debt securities, but at the same time one chooses to set up a climate action fund based on exactly the same premises – which is therefore not good enough for cultural memories and research. It doesn't seem reasonable, unless you try to trick the environmental movement into thinking that you're betting a lot, but actually get away using little. I should like to hear the Minister of Finance explain why fund solutions work on something, but are totally inappropriate for other things. As far as Chapter 2800 is concerned, if the State pension fund abroad, item 50, transfers to the fund, which is where the money goes, it is a curious thing that the government has said that initially all revenue from the oil sector should enter the fund, but so a NOx fund has been set up, which means that oil money goes directly into the Norwegian economy without going through the oil fund. It is, in fact, a violation of the rule of action, and the rule of action has been introduced by this government itself. So it would have been interesting if the finance minister could also comment on it. The Progress Party proposes the establishment of two State companies, one for road investment and the other for railway investment. This is in line with the recommendations of Sigbjørn Johnsen – before he became Minister of Finance, correctly. It's very happy to see that the opposition is starting to think like this. The left has a similar fund, and also the Christian People's Party. It is important to adopt a wider and better overall approach to the development of key infrastructure in Norway. So this government supports doing so in terms of power, in terms of electricity grids, and in terms of oil investment. I also think that important infrastructure, such as road and rail, should be looked at within the same framework – not to trick the budgetary system, but to actually do it better and get more money back. Therefore, we propose this and hope that it can be a reality in a few years – we know that others also look at it the same way. In doing so, I will address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone and those to which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e131	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e134	We discussed for 15 hours in the financial debate, so I really didn't intend to say much during this matter, but I would like to comment on a little change we have made in the setting, and as we have been some about the way in. That's true of what's in the Inner East. 12 S on student support for the first year of high-quality learning in non-Western countries. Last year, the government opened up the Loan Fund to support the first year of Bachelor’s degree in selected high-quality universities in the BRIC countries – Brazil, Russia, India and China. A natural consequence of this is that support for the first year of Bachelor’s degree in high-quality teaching places in other non-Western countries is opened. We see this as important for both industrial and social policy reasons. The countries we are taking with us this year are South Korea, Argentina, Chile, Mexico and Japan. Difor increases my cap. 2410, item 90 with 658,000 kroner. Otherwise, I will show you our comments in the financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e139	Let me also start by referring to the financial debate and the right hand posts there. We only have a few comments on a few points in this setting. The first is that the Right – like in previous years – wants to maintain research funds and proposes the creation of a maintenance fund for infrastructure. The main reason for this is the consensus that was at the time the rule of action was introduced, namely that oil money and the growth in the use of oil money should be used to build up under the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, through investment in research, competence, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax reductions. When we see that the government is increasingly evading that commitment, we believe it is necessary to strengthen the bond through fund structures, and we want to designate it within the State pension fund abroad. Secondly, the Right also proposes the creation of a mobile tax office. The background to this is, in particular, to facilitate the situation of rural jobs, the tourism industry and other companies in need of seasonal labour, where we know that many of those in Norway who work for a shorter period of time need a lot of time to get their cases sorted out in relation to the tax authorities. We want a mobile tax office that can travel out to where there is a lot of seasonal labour, instead of the labour force taking time to travel to the tax office. The third is that this year too, the Right wants a strengthening of the Financial Supervisory Authority in addition to the government's proposals. We believe it is important that we have a competent and strong financial supervision in the troubled times that have been in the financial market. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the government is increasing the investment in foreign students, but it must be allowed to say that it is not particularly impressive to put extra 658 000 kroner in an entire year. It's probably about ten foreign students. This does not give rise to great promise in view of the internationalisation of education. The right-hand side suggests 20 million. In order to increase internationalisation and allow several Norwegian students to study abroad, both in the countries to which the representative Eldegard referred, and in the BRIC countries – Brazil, Russia, India and China. We believe that, in a long-term perspective, it is necessary to strengthen internationalisation in the education and research sector, but then there is a need for a significantly greater commitment than the government makes in this regard, even if it is a small step in the right direction. With this I address our proposal No. 8 and proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e150	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e153	There will be no repetition of the financial debate on my part either, just a few remarks. First, we are very pleased that the opposition has gathered to propose an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad in poor countries and through it also strengthens sustainable businesses in these countries. Here we combine good investment with development in the poorest countries. I was going to think that there was something the red-greens also had a vision for, but I am all the more happy that the opposition is standing together in this. Otherwise, it has been mentioned that there are slightly different opinions relating to the structure of the fund and whether funds are a good way to spend money on different actions within the budget. We should like to see a strengthened cultural memory fund, and we are also proposing this in a proposal we are going to vote on later today. Both infrastructure funds, climate funds and research funds have been mentioned, so I just refer to our comments and suggestions in the various committees related to it. Finally, I note that the Ludvig Holberg Memorial Fund – which was established in 2003 – is now to be closed down. But at least it says in the proposition: "The goal of the vows is unchanged." I expect that some of it means that you still have to figure out why Jeppe drinks, and I think you still need to figure that out. With this I mention our proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e164	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e167	This week I have been involved in both the debate on the budget of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the budget of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Common to both debates is that many of the government parties' representatives have highlighted the forthcoming fund for environmental and climate action in industry as very positive and important. You can do that, but this fund is based on predictability and a return that, according to the same parties, is so bad that last year the Research Fund was closed and is proposed to wind up the Cultural Memory Fund, which was also the subject of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen. It is generally difficult to understand what the government parties think about and with funds in the government budget. The left has repeatedly challenged the government at this point; at the latest, Trine Skei Grande, who challenged the Prime Minister in the finance debate. To this the Prime Minister replied: «I think we should have a pragmatic relationship with funds... the reason that many, among others. in the research communities themselves were sceptical about the Research Fund, they saw how much money could be spent depending on how the interest rate went, and when the interest rate went down, less of the Research Fund could be used.’ The whole point of a fund is that it's the return to be used, and that it goes down with low interest rates cannot come as a surprise. It is therefore still illogical to establish a new fund and to add new capital to a total of 10 billion. kr to an existing fund – the renewable fund – while the Culture Memory Fund is liquidated. It simply lacks – as the Left sees it – a consistent and consistent line. The left considers the fund to be a suitable instrument. We are therefore proposing to continue and strengthen the Cultural Memory Fund by 200 million. kr, and we propose to strengthen the renewable fund by a further 5 billion. kr in order to trigger additional investments. The left wants all transport growth in and between the largest cities in South Norway to take place in the future by rail and public transport. If we are to achieve this, it is essential that the double track from Oslo to Halden, Skien and Lillehammer and railway construction around the largest cities is the first stage in a modern rail network between the parts of Norway. In order to realise the major infrastructure projects, new ways of planning, financing and implementing them are needed. By organizing the expansion correctly, we can get more out per invested krona. It provides economic savings, better progress and greater probability of completion within the timeframe. The left therefore proposes the establishment of a project organisation in the form of a state development company with overall responsibility for the planning and completion of the intercity project. This company should be given the opportunity to borrow and/or issue debt securities guaranteed by the State, as appropriate. The development company should have binding milestones for the completion of different planning processes and development and should be provided with the necessary resources to meet the deadlines. That's how we can complete the intercity by 2025. Furthermore, the Left proposes indexing the study support from 2005, setting up 2 000 additional study places, introducing 11 months of study support and introducing study support for so-called freshman years in the United States. The left also proposes to increase the Husbank's loan framework by 2 billion. kr in order to give more people with low income the opportunity to buy owner-occupied dwellings. Furthermore, the Left believes that good framework conditions are important for all parts of business, combined with targeted efforts to ensure undergrowth of unborn businesses and to develop more and better knowledge-based businesses. Public sector instruments need to be more effective in stimulating conversion and innovation. The left therefore proposes to increase the nationwide innovation loan scheme by 250 million. kr. The left is particularly concerned with investing in the environment and climate-friendly business. An important instrument in such a commitment is the Left’s proposal to establish a new state investment company, Climate Change, which aims to invest in climate technologies, climate entrepreneurs and environmentally friendly conversion. In the long term, the Left believes that climate change should also take over Investinor’s portfolio and investment strategy in the fields of energy and the environment and the management of the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway. This will allow for enhanced and coordinated efforts in the field of environmental and climate technologies. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e196	The representative Borghild Tenden then addressed the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e213	A discussion about the capital can be very much about. I would like to limit my contribution to a discussion of some of the main themes of the Capital Communication – where new measures were launched – and not to address, for example, in this context. hospital structure, museum cabinets or well-known discussions such as beg-debate, sex-purchase law or police coverage. The starting point for the capital notification is that Norway needs a well-functioning and strong capital and capital region. This means that we do not see it as a problem that the capital is growing in terms of population, diversity, jobs and much more – it, on the other hand, provides an opportunity for the whole country to have a metropolitan area that can give the whole of Norway a stronger and better place in Europe and in global society. So we don't need a policy to reduce growth in the capital city area, but to facilitate what the Communication calls sustainable development, with a better environment, less social differences, better inclusion and building the knowledge society. The large growth in the capital is expressed by the fact that last year Oslo had more than 14,000 inhabitants. It is estimated that the growth will continue with 14 000 to 15 000 a year in the future. Then Oslo will have about 900,000 inhabitants in 2030 and will become a million city not long after 2035. The special feature of Oslo's development is that we have a younger population – there are 7 people aged 16–66 per person aged over 67, compared with 4.7 in the country otherwise – we have received a level of education in Oslo and the Oslo region that is near the highest in the world, and we have great creativity in setting up new businesses, with 10,400 start-ups in 2011. We also have a distinctive feature that, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, by 2040, over half of the citizens of Oslo will have a migrant background, compared to 30 pst. today. And not to forget the growth in Akershus, which also needs to be seen as part of a continuous metropolitan area: There, the population grew by 11,000 people last year, and you will approach 800,000 around 2030. That is, Oslo and Akershus, with today's development, will be able to get 2 million inhabitants by 2040. In total, we are already increasing by over 25 000 inhabitants per year, which is equivalent to some Norwegian cities, which are about half of the country's total growth. These figures on growth are also part of the major challenges, namely the need for housing, finding solutions to the problems of integration, the use of our knowledge resources, traffic and the environment. As far as the last point is concerned, I would like to mention that if the transport distribution continues as it is today, by 2030 there will be half a million more cars on the roads every day than in today's situation, according to an Urban Analysis report on transport needs. We already see today that the limit values for air pollution are broken several times during winter around Oslo. The second main challenge lies in the housing situation. If we assume that today there are 1.94 people per dwelling in Oslo, it can be estimated that once Oslo becomes a million city once after 2035, the need for housing will be about 180 000. By comparison, the number of pre-regulated plots for new dwellings today is around 20 000 a year ahead. Adding Akershus’ needs to a capital area of Akershus–Oslo with nearly 2 million inhabitants would allow the need for new dwellings to be up to 300,000 by 2040. Akershus’ advantage is that one lives 11 times less densely than the population of Oslo, when not counting Marka. Then we come to the mandate that was already in place when the Gabrielsen Committee was set up in 1965, the Koren Committee in 1972, the Christiansen Committee in 1992 and the Capital Committee in 1997, namely that everyone has agreed that Oslo–Akershus must be seen as a coherent area in which the tasks have to be resolved in a comprehensive way and where reforms are needed in the division of counties and municipalities in order to achieve it. This was addressed in the capital message, and the government provided four alternative control models. There were two types of regional models, one model with a special body for the Oslo region and one with planned cooperation. But through a new staging message, St.meld. No 12 for 2006–07, and a process into 2008, after 50 years of discussions on reform in the capital city area, and while there has always been a broad consensus on the need for new tools for overall planning, there is still a lack of the Colombian egg that could be the solution. At the same time, the reasons for, and the need to, finding common solutions to the major development problems and challenges have emerged over the course of these 50 years. I can only refer to what I have said about the situation in terms of public transport, the environment, housing, commercial areas, etc. Now the government and we elected peoples in the big, urban government, county councils and municipalities should sit down and find out why all these attempts to find a solution to how to get a new organization in the Oslo area have not come forward in 50 years. What does it take to solve the flock? Probably it's about finding out what's been going on in the different phases, and about being able to specialise some solutions with specific legislation to solve the problems where you haven't been able to cut through. This applies, for example: that Oslo City Council has advantages in combining some municipal/communal tasks, and that there is no need to include what is not cross-border tasks in a new organisation. But, above all, there is agreement to address the need for common planning in terms of areas for housing/industry, and in terms of transport/collective traffic, etc. It's not important to me what you call it, as long as it works. But today it does not work well enough. It shows the precarious housing situation and future needs, it also shows the traffic situation, and it shows the negotiations on, for example: Oslopack 3, where compromises are good, but where there are so many cross-cutting considerations that need to be taken care of in all directions, the willingness to implement a change in the direction of public transport and the environment is not sufficiently clear. It appears, among other things, that in the case of public transport and the environment, a new T-Bahn tunnel through the centre in order to increase public transport capacity. Here, at first it's just added 500 million. kr to an investigation in 2017, while the need to have a completed T-Bahn tunnel through the centre by 2025 is precarious in order to avoid major problems with the closure of public transport. I believe that the most important thing the government can now do to follow up the Capital Message is to take an initiative, engage in a serious, fundamental way to look at what has gone wrong in these processes up to now, and create a new organisation, new tools to solve the challenges of housing and industrial areas and transport in the years to come. A better solution to the housing challenge in the future will also provide the basis for solving the integration problems. Because the most integration problems arise in poor, unattractive residential areas with a one-sided social structure. There has been an effort to do something about this – through the Groruddalen bet, through the Oslo South bet in Søndre Nordstrand, among others. by providing instruments for developing the neighbourhood, developing opportunities to bet on upgrading the environment in housing and urban areas and establishing schemes with environmental guardians, which have been short-lived, but which have started to do so. That initiative was launched together with the capital message. It was agreed between the Municipality of Oslo and the State that this effort would be made until 2017, but we now see that there is a great need to go further, and that much positive has started, such as free core time in kindergarten, where the kids – it turns out when they start school – have become much better in Norwegian, they claim better. But it is clear that such processes take a lot of time – they have to work ‘over a long time’, as it says in the Capital Communication, and therefore I would encourage the government to take the initiative towards the Municipality of Oslo to extend these territorial efforts for another ten years. If I'm going to say a few words in the end about what's the most important thing that the government is now addressing to solve the capital challenges in the future, it's reorganization, ten new years for the area initiatives, and creating a basis for the capital to develop into a well-functioning capital for the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e245	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing the question of the result and follow-up of the capital message. A well-functioning capital is important for those who live in Oslo, but also decisive for the whole country. Oslo is an important city of commerce, services and headquarters for business, for which the whole country benefits. In a modern knowledge society, the capital is important with the weight of universities, colleges, research and cultural institutions. It is good for Norway that we have an interaction between the metropolitan environment in the capital and the many strong regions and communities around the country. Let me first say that I consider that we have come particularly far in following up the actions of the Capital Message, and with good results. Many departments — most of them outside the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs — have contributed to this work, together with regional and local authorities. Oslo should be a good city to live in for everyone. Good neighbourhood is crucial for building a city. The big communities are built by the little ones, even in a big city like Oslo. Area action is therefore an important measure in the capital message. The Municipality of Oslo is responsible for the holistic development of the Groruddalen. The Ministry of the Environment co-ordinates their efforts, but several departments participate. The government has contributed 586 million. SEK and Oslo municipality with 266 million. kr. The Ministry of Transport has, among other things: helped double the number of take-offs and upgrade stations along Grorudbana and Furusetbana, new walk and cycle bridge over E6 and several new walk and cycle road sections. The Ministry of the Environment is involved with urban park funds in each part of the city and with the upgrading of an Akergard in each part of the city. Many completed tour measures now make it possible to cycle along Alnaelva. It gives quality of life. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs supports the territorial lift for two new areas in each part of Groruddalen. Support is provided including: for social events, motor centres and skate halls at Haugenstua, upgrading of Svartjern at Romsås and for youth leadership programmes. Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion participates with funds for free core time in kindergartens. The Ministry of Knowledge provides funds for the Language Promise and the Development Project, i.e. extra resources for schools with more than 25 pst. minority language. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is involved in two public health projects. A mid-term evaluation of the operation in Groruddalen has been carried out in 2011. The conclusion is that the bet is mainly on the right course. The State and the Municipality of Oslo have concluded a Memorandum of Understanding on an Action Programme for Oslo South for the period 2008-2017, on mandatory cooperation to improve growth and living conditions in the district of Søndre Nordstrand. The state is about 16.4 million. kr in exceptional funds for the 2012 action programme. The capital message states that there are major living conditions challenges in the capital. Oslo has a relatively high percentage of immigrants. Qualification and work is the key to inclusion. Immigrants are given priority when taking labour law measures together with young people, the long-term unemployed and people with reduced working capacity. Introduction programmes and training in Norwegian and social skills are important actions aimed at newly arrived immigrants. In the context of the 2007 state budget, the government presented an action plan on poverty. The plan has been followed up by measures and strengthenings in the annual government budgets. Measures are targeted at disadvantaged groups in the labour market, at the inclusion of children and young people and at measures to improve living conditions for those with disabilities. The early-warning scheme for children and young people in larger urban communities is a central system aimed at children, young people and families who have experienced poverty problems. The forward arrangement is strengthened, by 2012 at the latest. The government has also taken initiatives and forms part of planning cooperation between Oslo and Akershus. The aim is to achieve a more coordinated land and transport policy in the Oslo region that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions and local pollution, facilitate increased use of public transport and preserve Marka, green lungs and valuable agricultural land. As Minister of Transport, I had a good and fruitful cooperation with Oslo and Akershus on Oslopackakt 3, which was introduced in 2008. The package shall finance the faster development of transport provision in Oslo and Akershus and ensure a good performance for all road users. Oslopackakt 3 is financed by tolls and licenses from the state, the Municipality of Oslo and the County of Akershus. Revised agreement on Oslopackak 3 from 2012 is based on the objective of the climate agreement that the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas is to be achieved by public transport, bicycles and corridors. Upgrading of road sections for increased road safety, reduced noise and improved conditions for soft road users is particularly important in the Groruddalen bet. The government has provided a range of tools that will improve local air quality, both temporary and longer-term measures – legislative changes and changes in methods and technologies. The railway is an important part of the provision of collective services in the eastern region. This includes: proposed 827 million. kr to new double-track Oslo-Ski, close to one million for train provision in the Austland area, and SEK 2.9 billion. NOK for government purchases of passenger transport. New railway route structure makes everyday life easier for people in Oslo and in the Austland region. There are a lot of commuters going out and out of town, and we have to realize that the growth of commuters, people going to and from work, has to be taken on collectives, bicycles, and walks in the future. If not, Oslo will be choked with car traffic. This is a development we must resolve in layers – the state, the municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Akershu. In terms of population growth, there is no increase in crime in Oslo since 2006. It's positive. It's also positive that the clearance rate is better than 19.4 pst. from 2006 to 24,1 pst. in 2011. The budget for the Oslo police district has increased from 1.4 billion. SEK in 2007 to SEK 2.1 billion. kr in 2012. Special efforts are being made to increase security in areas of centres that have been perceived as unsafe. Last summer, there has also been a special center effort through increased patrols and the use of mobile police posts in the centre. Being safe in everyday life is an important part of the quality of life for people in Oslo. From 2012 onwards, the previous replication project has been put in place as a line work by the Organized Crime Section, recognising that this effort must have a long-term perspective. The increase in the streets of Oslo police district has also been made to better manage the national tasks managed by the police district. This applies, inter alia, to: the bodyguard service, the emergency team, the helicopter service and the planning of the new emergency centre. July 22 has shown us that we need to bet more, and we need to bet more on security, on security, and Oslo is definitely the most exposed city. Action taken on a national basis to strengthen innovation is also important for Oslo. Investinor was created in 2008. The company has an office in Trondheim and has a management capital of 3.7 billion. kr. The company has 28 companies in the portfolio, 9 of which have headquarters in Oslo. The six new nationwide seed funds to be created will give new hope of innovation in Oslo as well as in other parts of the country. There is an interesting development of cultural industries and the knowledge environment, among others. along Akerselva and Grünerløkka. The culture industries in Oslo stand for 45 pst. of the total value creation of the Norwegian cultural industries. The government assumes that a new state enterprise should be left outside Oslo, unless there is a specific foundation. If location outside Oslo is not possible, location in the Groruddalen shall be assessed. This has been followed up in the directions sent to Stadsbyg in January 2012. Nevertheless, all figures show that growth in government jobs is high in Oslo. All the heavy state institutions are here, and most of the growth that comes in government jobs is not followed by individual decisions. Growth comes as a result of organic growth and a budget that has increased — not least with the red-green government, which has seen communities and community services at the high seat, thus also increasing the budget in the vast majority of sectors. The government has given the local economy a big boost. Between 2005 and 2012, there has been a real increase in the total income of the municipal sector of 61 billion. kr. – equivalent to more than 20 pst. Oslo has got its share of this growth. According to our estimates, in 2013, Oslo will have a nominal growth in free revenues of about 5.9 p.p., which is well above the average for the sector. In 2011, the municipality had an operating surplus of 4,5 pst. measured in relation to revenue, which is also far above the average, which was 2,5 pst. The demand for new housing is increasing and is a major challenge for the big cities, and especially for Oslo. But we're on the right track. The building is now speeding. From 2009 to 2011, the number of start-up dwellings in Oslo was close to triple. The forecasting centre estimates in its report of September this year that about 30,000 dwellings will be built on a national basis in 2012. In Oslo, they expect a start-up of 3,600 homes this year, and we have carried a growth in the mortgage to the House Bank of 20 billion. in 2013 to rebuild the crop, which will have to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e298	I would like to thank the Council of State for a fine review of things that have to be done. There's a lot you could comment on there. I want to mention it with innovation – getting value creation out of the great knowledge resources we have in the Oslo area. The capital message was very honest and mentioned that this is happening to a far too little in relation to the research resources we have. The Council of State mentioned the establishment of Investinor, which provides an opportunity for these environments. Land-cover seed funds will also be able to provide an opportunity in the future. We see that these research environments at universities and elsewhere, in particular, have problems with instruments at an early stage – before entering and approaching the market and using some of these mechanisms, TTOs. At the University of Oslo, it's a project called Birkeland Innovation. It has far too little resources to really be able to help more of these innovators in the research communities towards the market and to realize their ideas. It would serve Norway a great deal if more of the instruments were available in other parts of the country, making these environments more valuable. I can also confirm that a lot is happening. Among other things, in train traffic, passengers have experienced – at least now in the first instance – a much higher regularity on the routes during the last few winter trains, after much effort has been made to upgrade signalling systems and others that have been faulty in the past. There is also much happening in the area initiatives in Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand – on which the Council of State was involved. These things are crucial to improving integration — to reduce differences. I just want to repeat what I said in my post: there are many plans going on, and great faith that now something can really happen. But it's just a start, because it's going to have to be very basic processes to achieve a good development in areas that include approximately. 180 000 people. In the case of language training and development, this has not been done in a short time. The projects with free core time in kindergartens and the introduction of extended school day schemes — as the government of the Capital Message said it would be – are something that has started. It must be carried on much more strongly. In the case of extended school day, it's only the first major project, at Mortensrud School, that's inside the state budget for next year. It will be crucial for the development of the concept of free core time to introduce additional measures in these areas to ensure that children are given equal opportunities to learn Norwegian and get started well in Norwegian society. Increased school days in the same areas that have free core time in kindergartens will be an important investment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e309	I agree with the interpellant that the area bet must continue. It takes time to achieve results. The evaluation we did last year shows that we're on the right track, but of course it also shows that there's a bit ahead, and that we never get there that we can say that now everything is in place, now we can borrow back. I think we have to realize that there will be challenging areas that we have to work with continuously. I think what we do in free kernel time is particularly important. We have to start with the kids, and we have to go on with the school – as we do now on Mortensrud, which is within the budget of the year. Language, language training, understanding of languages, communication are crucial for building good neighbourhoods throughout the city. Transportation is another crucial point. We've done a lot. There we have established a cooperation that was not so easy to establish between Oslo and Akershus. This cooperation can build on, and local and regional authorities must also take part in their responsibilities. But the government should be involved as a good partner and drive, where necessary. Intercity is the major, important project to be resolved in the forthcoming national transport plan. It's not possible to imagine if we're not getting built intercity when we see the population growth in this area. The government is working on this, and we'll get back to it when that plan is to be put forward in the spring. I didn't mean to say everything I had thought about building – time was not enough – but it's important for me to say that an important feature of high activity in building construction is finding more construction sites. And then it's also important that municipalities in a press area like Oslo think whole-mindedly, and that we get close along collective years and nodes. So we're going to contribute to good take-offs and frequent take-offs from the same nodes and the collective years. But, as has also been said in Good Construction for a better society – the building message that is networked in Stortinget – one must also have faster planning and construction management in the municipalities. It'll speed up construction. In the new year, we also come up with a communication on housing policy, where we will see the whole of housing policy – from plan to project and social housing policy – in a context. And online social housing policy is also important for Oslo. It is in this city that we find both the best and the worst. That's where we find the greatest differences. So online housing policy I see as a very important area in order to be able to contribute to the balancing between different groups in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e322	«Open, safe and creative capital region» is the title of St.meld. No 31 for 2006–2007 — the Capital Communication — presented in June 2007. Five and a half years later, the question is, Is the capital open, secure and creative? Open? Yes, people from the world come to Oslo to use their skills and workforce. Safe? Yes, for most people, Oslo is a safe city. But the capital also has a degree of gross crime that we don't see anywhere else in Norway. About half of the country's armed assault takes place in Oslo. It creates insecurity. Creating? Yes, education institutions, research and business in the Oslo region are important for the whole of Norway. The Oslo School is both the most diverse and the best in the country, and we have record numbers of newly established enterprises. When I entered the Stortinget in 2009, experienced representatives warned me: Don't talk too much about Oslo, it provokes people! And my experience is that Oslo is a kind of taboo -- something that jokes about, but it's not very much talked about. But Oslo and the Capital Region, we have to talk about, because some of the greatest challenges we have as a nation, have to be solved here. It is about such different things as housing, transport, climate, integration and living conditions – and industrial development, competence and crime. In all these and several areas, what is happening in Oslo is important to Norway. The representative Jan Bøhler deserves a great deal of thanks for having traveled this interpellation. And I think it is alarming that no one from the Right – the party that has run Oslo continuously since 1996 – has signed up for the debate. The main conclusion of the Capital Message is well after more than five years. The Capital Region has some special problems. The shortage in Oslo is positive, but the problems of living conditions are too great. The development of the city needs to be sustainable. The Oslo region is growing rapidly, but it offers both opportunities and challenges. It is important that the Oslo region can compete with other European urban regions. A strong metropolitan region benefits the whole country. Much of what was ready in 2007 has become even clearer now. At that time Oslo was a rapidly growing city. Oslo is now among the fastest growing cities in Europe. We are still a medium-sized city in the European context, but in 2027 we can pass 800,000 inhabitants. When I went to school, I learned that there were 400,000 living here. In recent years Oslo has grown faster than the most offensive population projections of the SSB, and by 2030 they believe that Oslo and Akershus may have grown with as many people as they currently live in Trondheim and Bergen together. Population growth is nice. It shows that people have children, and Oslo is an attractive city to move to. But galloping growth also poses some challenges. Expenditure on the development of schools, kindergartens, hospitals and public transport is growing more than the income of the municipality. Oslo has higher income per capita than the national average, but the distance is reduced. Oslo now has 103 pst. of the national average in income to cover municipal and 100 pst. – the same average as the country – to cover county tasks. To describe Oslo as a rich municipality is unpresist, but the municipality of Oslo has a good starting point for solving its tasks. The Capital Communication covers subjects outside the remit of the Minister of Local Affairs. In particular, as regards the overall planning of transport and housing solutions, there is a strong need in the Oslo region to involve both the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Environmental Protection. We see, for example: the construction of car-based construction sites in some neighbouring municipalities of Oslo. So even though the collective share in Oslo is increasing, car traffic through the city is also increasing because of decisions taken in other municipalities. The state has imposed planning cooperation on the Oslo region, and I could imagine hearing what the Minister for Local Affairs thinks about the development of this cooperation and the need for planning across municipal and county boundaries in the region. Does she realize that the planned cooperation is continuing, or does she envisage other solutions? Finally, I would like to say that I am concerned about Oslo. The city has great resources, but the challenges are also formidable. Oslo is not just a capital. Oslo is also a home — a place to live — for more people than it lives in any other Norwegian state. Among Oslo's inhabitants, we find some of the country's most powerful, but we also find some of the country's most outrageous. Oslo takes responsibility, but needs to have the state on the team. The state should not contribute because it is a pity on Oslo, but because it is important and good for Norway as a whole that Oslo succeeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e350	Let me also thank the interpellant Jan Bøhler for having traveled this interpellation. It is important that we discuss Oslo, and I also see that the representatives of the Labour Party from the Oslo bench have strongly mobilized now – as a kind of start to the election campaign on Oslo. Certainly for me, but I'm not so convinced that it's a struggle that the Workers' Party has the most to earn. There are many good intentions from the representative Jan Bøhler, and there is a lot of boast about today's situation. But I think you're in the middle of a slightly different feeling -- a feeling that may not be as good as it is. The representative Haugli ended up saying he was worried about Oslo, and so am I. There is no doubt that we in Oslo – and elsewhere in Norway for that matter, but especially in Oslo – are saved by the oil money. No one notices the challenges because we can pay ourselves out of them. It's a big, big challenge in itself, and it makes us unable and unable to solve the problems and challenges we're facing, in the correct way that you would do if you had to give a different priority. It's nice to talk about public transport. Yes, let's expand public transport in the Oslo area. Let's get the intercity network in place, let's bet on trains and public transport, and let's build new tunnels under town to get the T-Bahn in place. Very, very good, but what really happens? Everything is allocated over the state budget, and we're discussing one kilometer of road here and one kilometer of road there. That's how we prioritise this country, and that's what we've been doing. That's how we keep going, and so does this government. There are no visions of starting a train company just to build, similar to Avinor building aerodromes. There's never any nonsense about aerodromes, because it's done separately. We could do the exact same thing with trains, and we could do the exact same thing with the road. But it doesn't happen. Or you can make positive incentives, which we have in our alternative state budget in terms of collective cards and tax-funded collective cards, so you get to do something about rush traffic and create big revenues for Router – $2.3 billion. I don't know. I don't know. But the main challenges, of course, are the integration of this city. It's said that diversity is good. Yes, diversity is good. Look at the United States: diversity works, diversity is good. But the pace of this change worries a lot. It also worries most people sitting in the hall here, but they say something completely different. It actually leads to a segregation. The representative Jan Bøhler, who comes from the Groruddalen, knows that ethnic Northmen are moving out of the valley, while non-Western immigrants are moving in. There's thousands that do this. Then you can't talk about integration anymore, but you can talk about segregation. It is clear that integration is going well when most of the population in some parts of the city today has a migrant background. And the predictions for Grorud I have in front of me here. By 2025 it will be 80 pst. Immigrants in the city of Grorud, and it's actually not the neighborhood where there will be most immigrants. Then we talk about segregation – a permanent segregation. Then it is obvious that something goes wrong in this city. And it's not just that it's attractive to live in Oslo. We have to dry to say that in the case of e.g. housing, we are responsible for both the supply and demand side. We're just talking about the supply side, but it's also up to politicians to look at the demand side. It's a market we run. Then we can say that we should limit immigration, so that we can control housing, control public transport and control developments in Oslo City. It's not just good to yell. I see that it's very smart -- in a democratic society it's very smart to do that, because then you get all the voices. But someone actually has to take responsibility. The people who move out of the Grorud Valley don't because they don't like people with a different background, but they just don't know each other. They feel that their traditions and their culture, with which they have grown up, disappear. They feel that traditions for their children in school are disappearing. It's serious. Shall we accept that for our country? Should we just say that the capital is going to be completely different over two generations – 40 years? Or are we going to try to say that there are certain things that apply to Norwegian culture, and that we are going to preserve? "When in Rome, do as the romance." But here we don't say that. We say that when you get to Norway, you can do exactly what you want. You can bring your own cultural traditions, and we're actually going to help you and support you about it, so that we create something called multicultural. I'm not sure what that is. I actually think we should be proud of our own culture and assert it. When you get here, we'll welcome you, but you'll actually find that in our country we have our culture. You'll have to adapt to it, or you'll have to go to a place where your culture of origin is practiced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e373	I want – without any electoral restrictions – to thank Jan Bøhler for the interpellation. I think it's okay to say that no one can doubt Jan Bøhler's commitment to Oslo, even if he comes from the Workers' Party. He must be credited for that. I think Jan Bøhler gave a very good description of the challenges, both the pluses and the minuses, at Oslo anno 2012 across a wide range. I noticed in fact very well the challenges he gave to the Council of State. The question, however, is, Did he get any answers? No, no, no. First, the representative took up Mr Bøhler: what do we do with the Oslo–Akershus county borders? It was a direct challenge to self-government whether there is anything in the relationship between our counties that prevents a good development for the metropolitan region as a whole. There, the representative received no answer – but that is also an answer. So the representative, Mr Bøhler, presented another challenge to the government: Do you still want to have a ten-year area operation when today's area operation ends? I did not realize that there was any attempt on the part of the government to respond to that challenge. There might be a lot of good reasons for that. One can refer to budgets and that nothing can be decided longer than the next financial year, etc., and that it is the responsibility of others. But just as much: I might have thought that when this interpellation travels, it's also to get the government's view of the central challenges one of the main figures of the government parties promotes. But it actually didn't come. Let me mention some areas that, seen from the Christian People's Party, are a challenge and have not been mentioned. Here it's really not about promoting Oslo versus the rest of the country or thinking that you can change it with a pinch, but it's a fact that the income system doesn't favor Oslo, to say the least. It is a fundamental question that deserves to be debated. It wasn't taken up, but I choose to take it up, because one thing is to grant, another thing is to let the capital itself keep more of the taxes you actually have. To present a challenge: how does the Council of State see a capital grant that can compensate more than what was done in its time, when Oslo again lost when the corporate tax was made state-owned? Then it's housing policy. A central former Labour Party commissioner wrote a large article in one of the capital papers a week ago and accused his own party of abdicating. I'm excited about the house report that's coming. What has happened until now is that this increased equity requirement that the government has blessed has led to a halt among many new entrants, not least in Oslo. You can talk about the need for plots – we do – but the truth is that we have several thousand plots that are ready to build, but the builders won't start because at the moment. is not economic for it. Several of them report directly increased equity requirements as one of the reasons. Justice I'm not going to mention, except that it was actually the Oslo police who had to downgrade the helicopter. We know what the consequences are. Then it's transportation. This is at least an example of our success in both Oslo and Akershus. Not least, the drivers have contributed to the success. But I think, and that is my challenge also to a former Minister of Transport, that if the state does not get on the road in a completely different way in the future in terms of both construction and investment in transport and operation, also for the collective part, it should be a heavy thing for the Oslo Municipality to provide that infrastructure alone. In that case, the whole country will lose weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e390	Let me first also thank Jan Bøhler for putting in an important interpellation. It is necessary that we also discuss the development of this region in which we are now. Oslo is Norway's capital. It gives the city tasks. It gives the city responsibility for and obligations to the whole country: responsibility for national cultural values, responsibility for embassy offices and hosting of central authorities. But Oslo is, in addition, a regional centre for between 1 and 2 million inhabitants, and thus an important precursor for the development of the entire eastern region. Then, of course, Oslo is a local community where, according to the SSB, 613 000 people are to live, live and work today. It is an important political task to ensure growth and living conditions, a varied labour market and service and recreation opportunities for Oslo’s own citizens – both state and municipal responsibilities. There's no difference between the three functions, because they interact. Urban development that benefits Oslo’s own inhabitants can also mean innovation for the region and for the country as a whole. For example, a strong industrial and research environment in Oslo not only creates differentiated jobs in the region, but it functions as a motor in the country's overall economic development. The Oslo region is the region that creates most values and is most innovative. It is important that we recognise this, no matter where in the country we may be, and ensure good framework conditions both for entrepreneurs and for well-established businesses. Let me add the following, because we must not create a contrast with districts or other regions: the Oslo and Oslo regions compete with other growth regions in Europe, primarily – with the Gothenburg region, Hamburg and the surrounding region, etc. That is what we must take on board from the industrial development policy that we must have in this region. We must take care of the industry we have in the Oslo area. It is closely linked to the research environments, which Jan Bøhler spoke about, both at the University of Oslo and at Kjeller, Kongsberg and Ås. Today, some of us are working to preserve the old Nycomed. It is an old and venerable company that is now purchased by General Motors and is called GE Healthcare. We from Oslo are in a dialogue with the Ministry of Industry that we should ensure that the entire company disappears to India, because the research department is on its way to India. Biotechnology and the pharmaceutical industry are one of the areas of concern in this region, and we must take care of that. We also need to look at how we are going to help it stay in this region. We know that the region has a special advantage in knowledge-based industries. Oslo is particularly important for the financing of maritime activities and of the oil industry and, most importantly, also internationally in the financial sector. It must be both a national and a municipal task to organise these industries, and that ball should also be played to the Municipality of Oslo, which facilitates urban activities here. Despite the lack of state instruments – and I will again refer to what the interpellant said – Oslo has a high number of entrepreneurs and not least women entrepreneurs. They establish businesses in total from design, flowers, IT, canteen companies to beauty salons. We need to know how to value that. Besides, they'll be fine, most of them. Some of us visited in the spring of 2012 Løvetann Kantine drift, a female founder who runs 20 canteens in different companies, who compete with multinational companies and do it. These are businesses and establishments we need to support. It is a joint responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo and the State to ensure the necessary framework conditions for active and sustainable economic development in the Oslo and Oslo regions. It also says the capital message. Finally, living in the big city is a way of life that gives a variety of opportunities and variations. Here we can live alone and isolated, or we can work together and together with other people. With targeted political governance, the urban community is diverse and gives us the opportunity to choose our own life situation. But it's both a government and a municipal task to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e411	I think this seems to be a good and constructive debate with a lot of good ideas about the challenges in the capital region, perhaps with the exception of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who certainly did not see any need for this debate and, basically, was not particularly interested in these issues, and he believed that there was an election campaign. I have souls from different positions worked on these questions for 20 years, and that interests me equally every time. I fully agree with what Jan Bøhler said in the introduction that the questions we have to discuss relate to the entire metropolitan region. Then my point in this debate will be the relationship between today's Oslo and Akershus counties, which then surrounds the entire capital. Akershu County Municipality has address Schweigaard Gate 4 in Oslo. People from other parts of the country ask the question, why is that? That's very strange. No, it's not weird at all, because Oslo is the center of Akershu County. Akershu County is divided into three. Two of the regions are physically related, perhaps not completely mentally, while the third region in Akershus is not physically related to the rest of the county at all. Akershus County has some remarkable breakdown. Why has it been like that? Mainly because of the merger of Aker and Oslo in 1948, where Aker, a large part of today's Oslo, was an Akershus municipality, which was merged with Oslo, which was quite right. But then we are left with Akershu County, which surrounds the capital. And the question is, is that appropriate? My answer is clearly no. It is an inappropriate breakdown. The boundary between Oslo and Akershus is artificial. Why, then, is it so difficult to change this administrative breakdown? There have been a number of samples from the 1960s to the present day. I want to add that it happens a lot positive. The establishment of Router was a very important step. For many years, we were engaged in Oslo Sporveier in Oslo and Stor-Oslo local traffic, SL in Akershus, with some different ticket systems, very inappropriate. Fortunately, the politicians in Oslo and Akershus were able to establish Ruter. Oslo and Akershus were able to cooperate on the so-called Oslopackak 3. There are many examples of good cooperation, but it doesn't last. The question is, what is the solution? To the representative Syversen: at least I want to say that my solution is to join Oslo and Akershus – the whole of Oslo and Akershus to a Stor-Akershus, Stor-Oslo or what you might call it. The solution is not to start splitting up Akershus, as proposed by the majority of the Capital Committee or the Wilhelmsen Committee in the 1990s. I see the representative Tetzschner on the list of speakers. He was among the majority who proposed such a solution. It's stillborn. To imagine that Oslo should eat some local communities, and, as the majority of the Wilhelmsen Committee suggested, that the other municipalities in Akershus should be given away to Eastfold or Hedmark, is usually politically unimaginable – we do not get that. But there should be zero problems or at least have problems merging today's Oslo and Akershus. For a long time there have been discussions about the municipal and county divisions in Agder. I'm not going to go up that discussion here, but there's a sign that today's division into Agder is inappropriate, just as I think the division into Oslo and Akershus is inappropriate. Why should we do that? Well, to get a more powerful metropolitan region and to get better services for the inhabitants. Everything Oslo is doing, is of interest to Akershus, and everything Akershus is doing is of interest to Oslo. It doesn't matter to the citizens whether the administration has the address of Schweigaard's Gate 4 or the Town Hall Square 1, or what may be the address of Oslo City Hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e430	First, I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for taking up an important interpellation. I think he went through many of the challenges Oslo and the Capital Region are facing. I might not think the answer from the Council of State was as rich in content. At least it's not an understanding of the enormous challenges you're facing. I think it's a good picture of Oslo and Oslo's growth right now that a new classroom will be built this week if we're going to be able to keep up with the challenges we're facing. When we know that many municipalities are struggling for decades to get their schools cleaned up, I think there are a lot of local authorities who had become anxious about a message to build a new classroom this week. That's the growth rate in Oslo right now. Oslo is also a place where many of the nation's challenges also accumulate. We have e.g. a challenge in the areas of drugs and health, where we see that very many of them with drug problems around the country, end up in Oslo and in the helper that Oslo will build. Very many of them do not have a residence address for Oslo. Many of them experience seas – I've heard a lot of stories about – that their own Nav offices and their own municipal administrations are very concerned about pushing them through Oslo's budgets, which is painful for those who experience it, but it also says something about what challenges Oslo is collecting in this field. It is also true that most people living in Oslo feel safe, as Håkon Haugli remarked. Oslo has probably never been as safe through history as it is right now. Nevertheless, many people feel insecure, and many who do not know the city feel a great deal of insecurity because you do not know how to read the streetscape in terms of security/non-security. Much of what young women have felt about some of the waves of assault violence is at least a challenge that we politicians must take seriously. Another thing that we've been busy about in the Left is that very much of the innovation actually happens in this region, without very much of the tool to get this innovation to become a living business is at the disposal. I would have liked an Innovation Norway that had not been so busy with the address, but of innovation, and so on could have taken hold of the good ideas, not the good addresses. Because I have an experience both as a local politician in a small municipality in Trøndelag, as a county representative in Trøndelag and as a city councillor and for a long time as a city councilman in Oslo, I can say that there are two completely different worlds – really, two completely different worlds in dealing with the state. As a local politician and state politician in the Nord-Trøndelag, I felt very much that the state was on track. I felt that when we were going to do something big, it was just inviting to join in on a split, join in on a lift – now we're really going to get something big, and then we also have to have big brother on the team. Then I got into the Oslo policy, and I've never had a greater sense of complacency with the state that you have as a local politician in Oslo. When someone talks about the Oslo power, at least it's not the power of the Oslo citizens, because the Oslo citizens feel incredibly outrageous to the state. It almost never happens that you get to a fissure. Faced with enormous challenges in building infrastructure for public transport, the reward funds do not go to Oslo, because a political agenda is about giving money only to the municipalities that have chosen the right way. We experienced this when we had the Munch debate this week. One of the posts of the opposition in the city was a single long tirade against the governance structure in Oslo – a five-minute tirada. I believe that if we had discussed the anniversary of Olav H. Hauge, we would not have had a five-minute tiration against the rapporteur in Ulvik. That's not the way you talk to local democracy. So I have a challenge to the Council of State that the state should feel more that it is in the party with Oslo, and not always feel that you are fighting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e448	The challenges of the capital are not just a matter for Oslo and the Oslo region. Oslo is Norway's capital and a concern for the whole country. When you come from the outside, it is easy to see that the city has challenges, but also opportunities and great developments. As a Finnish mark, I can sum up the region's link to Oslo as follows: Oslo accepts both our most resource-intensive young people and those of our most struggling young people. This shows that Oslo is not only a capital, but also a home for residents from all over the country. The city has challenges with enough housing for its inhabitants and with the integration of immigrants, made clear at schools with 97-98 pst. non-ethnic students. It's not going to be the integration of that -- it's going to be segregation. Traffic management is another field that is obviously challenging. This city must bet on collective solutions. The Labour Party has an old and proud slogan: city and country, hand in hand. The working party has followed up on this. We have a comprehensive policy – both urban policy, regional policy and district policy. We have incredible natural resources in our country, located all over the country, and we are interdependent in this country. Therefore, the challenges of the capital are also the rest of the country’s challenges. The representative of Syversen took up the economic distribution between the municipalities of the country related to the income system. The revenue system shall contribute to a similar service provision across the country. We've done that. It's hardly perfect, but we can deliver good welfare services across the country. It has just been adjusted after 15 years and must be adjusted approx. every four years. Both Oslo and the rest of the country’s municipal income should then be assessed. I would also like to thank Jan Bøhler for this interpellation, which gives us the opportunity to debate this important issue for Oslo, and which also gives me, as a Finnland representative, the opportunity to state from this pulpit that Oslo is our common city, and that we who do not live in Oslo also have the care and responsibility for the development of the city and its inhabitants so that we can live a good and safe life here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e465	Also, I would like to start my post by saying that it is very profitable for the representative of Bohemia to put this interpellation on the agenda. Now it's like we're still discussing important issues in this room that have to do with Oslo – we've been discussing the development of rape, traffic issues, hospital issues – but what makes this interpellation interesting is that it refers to a crash message, St.meld. No 31 for the 2006-2007 session, with the inviting title: Open, secure and creative Capital Region. When you look at fields after fields, the beautiful words that the government says it should realize give a debate that it is today an opportunity to see if things really have improved. I would like to refer to page 12 of this Communication, which states under the heading ‘Safe Capital’: ‘The government is working to make the capital even safer and to support the Oslo police in their vision [[...]] Further: ‘The government’s objective is to better prevent, clarify, respond more quickly and improve the rehabilitation of the police. This is why the government wants the police to: – Increase security with an accessible and visible police force in all parts of the city. Police shall increase their daily preventive presence in crime-affected areas so as to ensure equal security in all residential areas throughout the city and that young girls do not feel insecure.» If we keep these beautiful words together with what is the actual development, I can refer to the crime statistics for Oslo, produced by the Oslo Police District for the first six months. That's what it says. ‘Oslo police districts have an increasing share of all registered crime throughout the country. In the first half of 2012, 45,690 reviews were registered in the Oslo Police District. This was an increase of 8.2% [[...]] Further: ‘An increase was recorded in the number of reports for the crime types economy by 21.1%, drug law offences by 14.9%, violence by 10.4% and morality by 7.8%.’ As far as the last point is concerned, rape has increased from 96 to 111 reviews only for six months, 15.6 pst. increase, while attempted rape has increased from 16 to 20 reviews, i.e. by 25 pst. So it's like the evolution of crime, which is what we're talking about, is not on the right track, and growth is not under control. And what I was referring to now is not the whole development since the Capital Message was presented in June 2007. What I was now referring to was the increase only in the last six months of 2012. Without going into the special event that the government quarter estimate represents, it is clear that the Gjørv report has also taken into account that there is a large gap between the number of police officers on the payrolls and the response personnel operating in the streets. So we've also had a Minister of Justice who's been sitting and seeing that the very force of enforcement and the presence in the city has gone down, with the effects that we've seen. It's a lot of work to do in the field of crime. In the case of the part that was to deal with the innovative – the innovative – it is also such that the country’s instruments are directed anywhere other than against Oslo. There has just been an evaluation of Innovation Norway that says that Innovation Norway cannot realise what is their aim, namely to secure national value creation, if the instruments are not also addressed where the innovation potential is greatest. So it has been chosen not to do so through the policy that has been pursued. It is almost exception that projects from Oslo and Akershus are supported by Innovation Norway, only 3.8 pst, while 47 pst. of the research activities take place in the city. Oslo is distributed in terms of everyday life. In the case of the celebrations, they are excellent. I would once again like to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for our opportunity now to check out the slogans against the realities, and we must note that it is a long way to go in order to achieve greater consistency between the two.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e506	I'm an ethnic heathmark, but from 1980, I'm an alien. I don't know much about Oslo, and that's why I want to thank Jan Bøhler for giving me some training here today. It's typical for us who live outside Oslo, that we say very clearly that the Oslo people know nothing about us, about District Norway's sorrows and joys, but it's really about the other way too. One point in this context is that Oslo is not Oslo. When we talk about Oslo, we talk about Makt-Oslo, i.e. we talk about the state institutions – government, big business, department, directorate and media not least. We're not talking about the community and the regional community of Oslo. There have already been several speakers. I am convinced that on the outside we should care much more about both the local community of Oslo and the regional community of Oslo, the Oslo region. The situation today is not as Ingalill Olsen says, that there is a city and land hand in hand-approach here. It's more like man-to-man when we talk about Oslo people in Uppland. There's several reasons for that. One reason is quite simply that just like most people are Chinese, the northernmost people are almost most Oslo-region residents. When three out of five kids live in Oslo, it's time to get a little curious about what the Oslo community is. The Oslo community has a powerful attraction. I think some of the major challenges in the Oslo community are linked, among other things. inclusion, that there is a shared city, that it is a city of great diversity, and this is precisely what makes it so attractive. It's a modern and exciting society that's developing here in the Oslo region, and more and more of us Nordics are being very fascinated by this very society. The municipalities of Hadeland understood this a few years ago. Then I was an upland politician. They said they wanted to be part of the Oslo region, and then there were some state politicians who took this as a bit of a threat: now you have to decide. Either you get to be aliens, or you get to say that you're part of the Oslo region, but we don't like that. I was very opposed to that. First of all, I have a lot of sense for anyone who challenges and crosses such administrative boundaries, because I think that's so important. If a few want to make a good social development, it's about to tone down the significance of it. Secondly, they had just discovered something. Something is happening in the Oslo region that is very important that we discover a little outside – Severe Myrli was into it, sail if Myrli isn't as much on the outside as what I am and Uppland is. And it was very exciting and useful and important for their own social development work to become part of the Oslo region. Uppland has now come after in this regional shrinkage discussion, and the intercity discussion, two tracks to Lillehammer, etc. That's exactly what I'm saying. We also want to be part of a larger Oslo region. I hope that is not perceived as a threat to you who live in central Oslo, that we also want to be part of a larger region and join the exciting social development that is taking place here. In that context, I think Sweare Myrli has a very important input about this with structural change. I think precisely the Oslo region is a good example of how very important it is that we have a democratic level between the state and the single municipality. I don't know how big ambitions the Right and Advance Party really have in changing the municipal structure, but I can never imagine that one could get one municipality called the Oslo region, which includes Hedmark and Uppland. I guess one will end up with far more units than just one, and then we just have to have one level. It should be politically directly directed at the large regional level, precisely in order to provide an appropriate unit as a starting point for good social development. Thank you for this debate. This was an attempt at a tribute and a declaration of love from a stranger, who at the same time regrets that until now we have been a little too passive. We're going to activate more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e527	This is an interesting and important interpellation. I hear that the representative, Mr Bøhler, is calling for a new organisation, even for specific legislation, in order to engage in cooperation in the Oslo area. Now I think the Council of State was a little bit more unclear about what she was talking about, it was Oslo, it was the Oslo area, or it was the whole Eastern region, which I think is three different areas. There was the representative Myrli a little clearer, because he just wanted to merge everything, and was quite sure that it was the right solution. I live in a municipality called Ski. It is very rare that the local theme in Ski is the same as it is in Asker or Lillestrøm. We don't even have the same football game. It's kind of a weird combination. It'll be a little bit special just talking about Oslo, because if the housing situation in Oslo is as precarious as Boehler says, I think maybe the solution to this is to look further than just the Oslo city boundaries. I was a little surprised that the Council of State said it was positive that crime has not increased. I'm very pleased about that, but the representative Tetzschner is presenting figures here that show that it actually has increased. There may be different surveys, but I hope that all the parties on the Stortinget agree on one goal, and that is that one should have a strong reduction in crime in Oslo – and in the Oslo area. Then there's Oslopackak 3, which I know as a state politician in Akershus. That's right, as Boehler said, they've been hit by a lot of compromises here. Some road projects in Akershus were very damaging when the Sinsen Cross became much more expensive than expected. Now this package cracks sharply, and then the question is: Will the state finally contribute? Should we get more tolls? We're not very happy about that. Or you have to lower the level of ambition, which is also not a good solution. But the thing I've had as a representative from Follo in the last few years – to which all the parties have been positive – is Follobanen. We are delighted to see this coming to our area, both to make it easier to get to the capital and to make it easier for people to get to us. But then you can ask yourself questions about how the government can put itself in a situation where every train set that goes to and from the capital, both morning and afternoon, is so full that there is almost no room for those who are going to attend. The choice between car and train might have been easier if there was room on the trains. Customers are queued to run trains, but the provider of this service does not deliver the goods. Perhaps because I am a party politician, I believe that there is only one conclusion to this, and that is that the provider of the train services is state owned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e544	I would like to thank you for many good posts that it was very nice to sit and listen to. I would like to comment on a few issues. The first is what the representative Tybring-Gjedde was about, that ethnic Northmen move out of the Groruddalen etc. – the challenge of integration. There I would like to stress that I am taking the integration challenge seriously. I see that it is a fact that some ethnic Northmen do it, and especially families with children, because of insecurity in Norwegian knowledge, and in the case of children getting an equivalent learning environment as elsewhere in the city and country. But it connects, as I see it, and I see it in close proximity, less and less to skin color. You are together in spite of skin color, you are the same Norwegian and you are allowed to be the same Norwegian regardless of any immigrant background. One must be allowed to become Norwegian gradually, and then the most important thing for me is not to distinguish skin color. But we have to build action that works, and 20 hours of free core time in kindergarten has led to 95 pst. – if you look at the districts of Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand – now go to kindergarten, while it was formerly down in 60-70 pst. Those who were missing were those who were exposed when it came to starting school and could not Norwegian. We are now seeing a different development, which is why the project should be continued, reduced to three years, and it must also be introduced in Old Oslo, in Grünerløkka and in the Cases, where there is a lack – and problems can be created. I also talked about extended school days in these areas, how down to 20 pst. participate in the SFO, inter alia: because of the price. With an extended school day, this language development could become much stronger — and growing up together in Norway. It's the safety Norwegian parents need, then they'll be living in, it's not prejudiced against skin color. With regard to the comments about Oslo and Akershus, I think it was very positive that the representatives of Syversen, Aksel Hagen, Sverre Myrli and others were in the room. With regard to Sverre Myrli's solution, I would like to say that I think we should be open to that proposal, but that we must then look at specific legislation, some specific designs of such a new solution that satisfy Oslo's need to solve a number of tasks that are municipal and county councils, in good interaction locally. The new cooperation must also be directed specifically towards land, transport, etc. I agree with what Skei Grande said about the troubles. It's about getting involved in the interaction reform. This should be done by 2014. I also agree with what has been said about innovation instruments in the Oslo region, which I also mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e559	It has been interesting to listen to good and constructive posts. To Steenersen I would like to say that I am speaking in my post about both the Oslo area and the Oslo region. I think it is important to see the whole Oslo region in context, although there are some challenges – as the interpellant says – that Oslo Municipality must solve in Oslo, and that are specific in the city. The representative of the Seven probably listens badly when I had my post, because I said that the area bet must continue. It seemed to me that I was quite clearly told by a government council. We're not always that clear. I was also challenged if I wanted to do something with the state limit. Yes, if Oslo and Akershus want to do so, I will set up at any time, as I have also done with a number of other municipalities that have taken care of it. It's interesting to say that there are those who see solutions here, but as I see it so far, it doesn't have our will in Oslo to think of such a combination so far. It has our strong opposition to it, and I think it is also important to say that when we discuss that issue. When it happened to the economy in Oslo, as the representative Skei Grande took up, Oslo got its economy strengthened when the income system changed because we put more emphasis on the social criterion, they were weighted up. This has benefited Oslo, because Oslo has special challenges in that area, which has also been addressed by us from the pulpit today. Oslo’s economic situation has to be characterised as good – net operating surplus of 4,5 pst. last year, available funds of 6,4 pst. and the net loan debt of 42 pst, which is barely below the average of other municipalities, which is 74 pst. That doesn't mean everything's happy and fun in Oslo. Oslo has major challenges, but from the government's point of view, not least that Oslo has major social challenges, which we are now carrying out because many people are moving here from the country otherwise. When it comes to the national instruments of economic development, I would warn against taking up that debate by challenging the territorial rights of action. Rather, we should be able to increase the national tools. Innovation Norway is based on the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund, which in its time was the District Development Fund. If the name is now used to change the active region, we have to assess whether the name should be changed. For Innovation Norway is primarily based on other objectives. However, we have created national tools, and they also need to be strengthened, so that Oslo and other metropolitan areas can unlock the potential for growth. In the same way as the country needs a progressive and well-functioning capital, Oslo needs a regional balance that provides a distributed growth across the country. We have everything to do with working together on it, and I have never said that Oslo residents do not feel discouraged. I have just said that they feel exactly the same relief as sometimes in the Gudbrand valley or in Finnmark. We have the most in common, and we have the most to get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e574	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e589	Veteran is a honorary name, it's not a diagnosis. The defense veterans bring with them valuable and positive experiences and knowledge from an important and very often risky mission on behalf of the Norwegian state and society. Fortunately, most veterans are doing well, but those who are struggling are often working very hard. There is a strong consensus that the women and men who carry out demanding tasks on behalf of Norway are entitled to our support and our recognition. We are in charge of this matter, but we can disagree on the assessment of instruments, or how far we have actually come. The majority and the government have agreed to want to strengthen this area over several years. This is a theme that engages. It engages us as politicians, it engages the soldiers and their relatives, and it should involve the entire Norwegian community. Last morning I received a support report for the Veteran case with 628 signatures. The commitment that the initiator of this campaign, Arild Lihaug, and other firefighters show – I see many of them sitting in the gallery here today – should inspire us all. Support, recognition and care must take many forms – firstly, a practical form. Adequate and appropriate training and training must be provided. We have to prepare those who are going out, and they have to have good material. The framework conditions that enable the men and women of Defence to perform the tasks assigned to them must be good. Then it must have a symbolic form. Medals, parades, and homecoming ceremonies are important. I have on behalf of the Stortinget the pleasure of participating in all the medal ceremonies and the return parades of the Defence veterans, and I see how it makes me a politician, on behalf of Norway, proud, but I also see what cohesion and what identity it creates. This community is important for the individual and it is important for the defence as an organisation. It was long undervalued in the defense, and it was long undervalued in the public domain. Symbols are important. We're going to show our veterans and be proud of them and the work they've done and do. Then there must be political recognition, awareness of the mission and knowledge of the framework, opportunities and limitations of military power. We owe our soldiers a strong duty to be interested in what they do and to openly discuss and debate their duties and assignments. Then it must provide economic and legal recognition and care, good framework conditions and predictability for the individual soldier and his or her family. We have to recognise the risk in the military profession through allowances that are consistent with the task, and, when someone has sacrificed his own health, make sure that he or she is able to live the best life possible through financial compensation. This last aspect of recognition is not just about economics. It's about how we have arranged our administration, about how the system meets the individual, about how the person who has done his duty should be able to claim his right without experiencing it as a new struggle – a struggle that many say they experience as tougher than the one they fought in the battlefield. How we treat our veterans says a lot about us as a society. I want to pay tribute to the defense of the reinforcement of the work on veterans. It's created a special Swedish defence service that's now made a permanent organization, we have a visible and prominent veteran inspector, there's more attention to decorations and ceremonies, the principle of a 'one door-in-door' at Defense may not have fully put itself into practice, but it's an important principle, and not least Bæria is being developed as a center for the veterans and their closest relatives. But the veterans now have to go far beyond the defence's own ranks and organizations, and that's where it goes, especially in the individual's meeting with the system on the civil side, the government in the form of Nav, the State Pension Fund and the health services. The Government’s action plan In service to Norway came in spring 2011, after having been notified for two years. At the same time, the special compensation scheme for injured veterans was amended. The action plan embraces a wide range of 127 proposed actions and a scope also outside the defence, e.g. police, foreign personnel, etc. When Stortinget asked in June of this year, we were informed that 26 of the measures have been implemented, while a wide range of measures will be implemented by the end of 2012, and I expect the Council of State to say more about the status of follow-up to the plan. I mentioned that several veterans are quoted as saying that the fight against the system is tougher than the battle on the battlefield. It tells me that it's necessary to do something drastic. It is not acceptable, and it is not in line with the intentions expressed by the Storting, or with the decisions we have taken. Damaged veterans still encounter far too little understanding of their situation and their civil and health damage. Competence is lacking and knowledge is lacking. It needs to be improved, and it is necessary to facilitate the systematic enhancement of competence in relevant disciplines, such as: Veterinary association SIOPS, in cooperation with the Regional Resource Centre, does on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention. It is linked to the development of competence in the specialist health service and other parts of the Nav system. This is an offer that the Right proposed to significantly strengthen in its alternative budget. The right also considers that it is appropriate to consider pooling and centralising the competences of veterans in the administration, for example. through a model in line with the former war invalidity office of the old Reichsrügdewerk. It could ensure the implementation of the ‘one-door-in’ principle also in civil management and contribute to the pooling and strengthening of competences and consistent practices in this area. In addition, the professional competence and the decision-making authority must be as comprehensive as possible. It's not like that today. An overall opposition proposed this in the setting of a new long-term plan. Today, the proceedings at the Staten Pensjonkasse wall are too many injured veterans. The State Pension Fund manages a comprehensive set of different compensation and compensation schemes. It's inconclusive, and it's complex, not least for the individual who meets the system, and it's extremely long waiting. The Action Plan sets out the actions related to the State Pension Fund as Action Item 103, which deals with specialist investigation procedures, measures to reduce unacceptable waiting times and in particular: ‘A complete and predictable process shall be established between the Defence and the Working and Welfare Act/SPK for the management of claims’. Unfortunately, it is still neither complete nor predictable. Veterans applying for compensation continue to experience a lengthy procedure. They experience a close-up coffeecake process related to the acquisition of specialist statements, and they experience evidence requirements that do not appear to be in line with the leading Stortinget has given to the government in these kinds of cases. For the individual, the load is going to be huge. They are constantly experiencing new requirements for additional documentation that almost serve as a standard procedure, which helps to make the procedure unnecessary. The outcome of the State Pension Fund proceedings is that more and more cases are being prepared and subsequently brought before the judiciary. It's not a good development. It's not good for the individual, who needs to spend additional resources on this, and it's not good for the defense or for the public authorities. Not least: it gives the impression that the state does not take its responsibility, and that the individual soldier does not get what he or she is entitled to. It travels parallels to one of Norway's truly historic statues, namely the treatment of the war ropes throughout the post-war period. Now we see again people who have offered society the ultimate victim, and then to go down to the bottom of the system. We can't be aware of that. We know that traumatized veterans have chosen to take their own lives after returning from duty. The transition has been too difficult and the safety network has not been good enough. If the news about the suicide rates of veterans last night showed us something, there is a particular need for more knowledge and more research on their situation. The long-term life-cycle survey is therefore an extremely important step in this direction. From the right, we have high expectations for the study and not least for its follow-up. We have come a long way in improving the recognition and care of our veterans, both before, during and after duty. However, the challenges remain, especially in the civil auxiliaries, and in this case – as for the veterans for the rest – it doesn't last to get a good deal on the road, we actually have to get home completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e629	The interpellant addresses an important theme. It is right that the representative, Eriksen Soreide, stresses that there is a broad consensus on the government's veto policy. I am pleased that the Swedish policy is being given so much attention and interest, both in political circles and in professional environments. A number of actions have been undertaken and competence in the field is constantly evolving. In addition, there is a lot of important and interesting research on veterans. The government of Stoltenberg is the first Norwegian government in the post-war period that has taken social responsibility seriously and has taken action to recognise the efforts of the veterans to bring peace and security to other parts of the world. Social responsibility applies before, during and after the soldiers have returned from their foreign assignments. This is central both in St.meld. No 34 for 2008-2009, From Protective to Veterinary, and in the subsequent action plan in 2011, In service for Norway. The Action Plan is signed by six State Councils and has 126 actions to be implemented between 2011 and 2013. This doesn't mean we'll be in target in 2013. Of course, measures for veterans should be developed far beyond this period. Of the 126 measures taken by the action plan, 107 have been implemented or started. 95 of the measures are under defence, the remaining under other departments and sectors. Some measures can be taken relatively quickly, while others are more complex and require longer time to be fully implemented. This applies in particular to competence, research and model development. Therefore, work on some of the measures will continue beyond 2013. The work is well under way. The follow-up and coordination of actions shall be carried out by an inter-ministerial working group composed of the six departments which have developed the plan. This collaboration works well. In addition, a meeting forum has been set up for the Heads of State or Government in the Defence, Labour and Welfare Directorate, the State Pension Fund, Buffetat and the Health Directorate. The aim of this is to discuss common issues related to the follow-up of the veterans. The aim is to provide the veterans who need it the most and optimally coordinated support and help. We are already in the process of simplifying cooperation and increasing the competence of all the relevant departments. This is something that should already be noticeable to many of our veterans. I would like to commend the employee and veteran organisations for their commitment and cooperation both in the design of the action plan and now also in the implementation phase. Their contribution will be important to us in the future as well. This government has done a lot to improve the veterans' meeting with the civil auxiliaries, as the representative Eriksen Soreide calls for. I think we've come a little way. One of the main measures of the action plan has been to give veterans one door to turn to the Defence. It was an important part of the background for us to set up the Swedish Defence Service as a project in 2011. The Veteran Service is managed by a major general named VA. In the defence budget proposal for 2013, we propose that the project be closed, but will once again take the form of a new organization for the veterans. This will be associated with the Defence Staff. It will have as its primary task the implementation and follow-up of the action plan. Although the vast majority of veterans are very good at everyday life, the time after service may be demanding for some, not least mentally. There are, in particular, two main challenges that we need to focus on. Firstly, there is the need for coordinated and coherent services and, secondly, to ensure good competence in the treatment of traumas by health and care professionals. The Minister of Health and Health is responsible for ensuring that this is followed up, and he has assured me that he takes this responsibility very seriously. Personnel who have participated in foreign operations have different needs for work and well-being at home. Fortunately, what the veterans are offering today is far better than it was before. The Working and Welfare Session has implemented a number of improvements in terms of process time, availability and internal coordination. In addition, it has done a great deal to increase the competence of the veterans in relation to their specific challenges and needs. It has also strengthened interaction with external actors, such as the Defence and the State pension fund. The national pension fund manages various compensation and compensation schemes that may provide defence personnel serving abroad with financial compensation in the event of injury or disease. For individuals, compensation from these schemes may be of great importance. The Minister of Labour states that the State pension fund has therefore taken a number of measures to ensure that matters are dealt with quickly and effectively, while ensuring sound treatment and legal certainty for individuals. Although there are several compensation and compensation schemes, one application to the State pension fund is sufficient. Veterinary applications for compensation were then examined in accordance with all relevant legislation, even if only one scheme was sought. The State pension fund, Nav, Defence and Health and Care Services have jointly developed a procedure for the coordinated treatment of claims by veterans. These include: common procedures for obtaining medical documentation. In practice, this means that the same specialist statement is used by both the State pension fund and the Employment and Welfare Act, where possible. When establishing a separate compensation scheme in the Defence Personnel Act from 1 January 2010, the State has assumed an objective responsibility towards military and civil personnel for any physical or mental injury or disease that has arisen as a result of serving in an international operation. As the law does not apply to injuries before 2010, a special compensation scheme for mental stress damage was also established in 1978. This is considered by the government to be a very important contribution to both the recognition and the preservation of the veterans. The specific compensation scheme includes requirements that are far behind in time. Therefore, the government considered it necessary to introduce the scheme with more limited evidence requirements. The fact that the scheme provided a lower maximum substitution limit than the more stringent evidence regimes was met with critical voices from the veterinary organisations. Therefore, a change in summer also introduced an opportunity to get 65 G at 100 pst. acquisitional disability. They must then comply with the ordinary requirement of proof applicable to damages from 2010 onwards in time. In line with the action plan, our elderly and new veterans now have the same possibility of financial compensation for the same damage. This is important. The government has taken responsibility for following up our veterans in the greatest seriousness. The recognition and care of our veterans and their efforts for Norway are very important. The implementation of the action plan is well done, and it is well organised. I expect all actions to be implemented or started by the end of 2013. Veterinary work has a long-term perspective and several of the action plan’s actions will extend beyond the period of the action plan. In my last period as Secretary of Defense, I had the veterans as one of my top priorities. I'm still going to have this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e667	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At the same time, I also ask for answers to some of the specific questions I asked. Let me just stress the importance of how to work in the civil auxiliaries. When it comes to the possibility of the same compensation for the same damage, the question is, how true it is for as long as the counselling requirements are different and – not least – difficult to meet. One can only imagine the following situation: You've been serving abroad 15 years ago. There are no combat logs or evidence of what you've done, what you've been through. When you go to the Nav or the State pension fund, you feel that no one understands what you're talking about, because naturally no one has experienced the same thing as yourself. In addition, no documentation can be provided because the battle log does not exist or because the information has been graduated. If you had gathered all the expertise in this area according to the model of the former War Disability Office, where all the cases went straight in and past all the other case handlers in the Staten pension fund and Nav, who are dealing with completely different things – where the competence to deal with those applications – it would be much easier for the veterans who are struggling to meet the civil auxiliaries. It's also about using the competence of the veterans. I think a lot of the veterans we have today, who have been in different areas of operations over many years, have a competence that could have been used in the civil auxiliaries to help with just these issues. This does not mean that there should be no proof, and that does not mean that everyone will be compensated without proof of a causal relationship – on the contrary. But there are many simple handles that can make this less complicated for the veterans than it appears today. Of course, when the veterans meet a pension fund that demands constantly new evidence, there is an additional burden — especially when it is impossible to document. It feels awfully heavy. If you chose to pool your skills more, you would find that the applicants had competence both in the symptoms, in what area of the operation you had been in, and in what was typical of these veterans. It would make it much, much easier. It's very bad information, it's often creating high and unrealistic expectations, and then the hope is shattered afterwards. However, it is the Council of State which owns the relevant regulations and which is closest to instructing the State pension fund and, where appropriate, setting up a corresponding war disability office to facilitate the situation of the veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e684	It is not difficult to understand that veterans who have worn out, perhaps as far back as 1978, feel particularly heavy when you have to remember, can document something that is difficult to document, and also present their problems within many different doors. That is precisely why I took the matter up and made arrangements that would make it easier to get compensation, even if the cases were far back in time. With regard to the various compensation schemes that now exist, one is for the future, and I think we all agree on that: up to 65 G and with objective liability. It's also possible to get 65 G for damage far back in time, but there's a stronger requirement for evidence. Less evidence makes it possible to replace up to 35 G, and there is also a 6 G cheap substitute scheme. The important thing about these schemes is that you can submit one application and get it assessed against all the schemes – based on application and documentation. I have a great deal of understanding about the problematisation of the documentation, but I think we just have to admit that some documentation has to be there if we are to get the highest compensation and the case is far back in time. There are different areas where the veterans need follow-up. Replacement is very important. Recognition, which the representative Eriksen Soreide had in mind, is incredibly important – the recognition that comes from society at the time of medal distribution, etc. Dealing with everyday life is also an incredibly important matter. The new project at the Elverum in the Baltic Valley, which is a collaboration between health, Nav and Defence, is a model of what it will be like across the country. There they have done so that they meet the soldiers as they return from foreign service and help seek work – if necessary – or other arrangements that are necessary. As a former health minister, of course, I am very concerned about the follow-up to the health care system. There is a good job done, but there is no doubt that it takes time to build skills in such a complex field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e701	Veterans from foreign operations are heroes of our time. They're the war heroes of the 21st century. Since World War II, there have been about 120000 in foreign operations — from the German Brigade via Korea, Congo, Lebanon, the Balkans and elsewhere to Afghanistan. How have these gentlemen and wives felt abroad and after they returned home? Most people look back on the time spent in foreign service as a enriching and developing time, which has given them much. They can and should be proud of the efforts they have made. I feel the initial need to say that we must now be careful so that we do not produce it so that being a foreign service veteran is automatically problematic. But some have worn out, especially after they have come home from work. The big community didn't take this seriously for decades after decades. I have heard examples of soldiers who died in foreign operations, and where there was no support device in the defense and no help for those who returned home. It was shameful how the big community behaved in these matters. Fortunately, a lot has happened in recent years. From 2005 onwards, there has been a shift in the pace of veteran policy. I do not hesitate to call Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen a veteran minister from her first term as Minister of Defence. I think perhaps the Right and Interpellant today could cost themselves one thank you to Minister of Defence Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen for the effort she has made to improve the situation of the veterans. To put it that way, before 2005, there was very little action in the field of veterinary policy. Veterinary organisations have played and play a crucial role in the work that has been done and to be done. Organisations are doing a very important job both by taking care of veterans and also by working towards political authorities, defence and others in order to find better systems and systems for the care of veterans. What, then, did the veterans and their organizations take up with us earlier in order to bring about changes in veteran policy? Well, it was desirable to put in place better compensation schemes because the schemes that existed were too poor. It was taken seriously, and there was a new compensation scheme for those serving in foreign operations from 2010, a new compensation scheme for physical and mental damage. The feedback I have received is that – I think I can almost say in agreement – it is a very good arrangement, with which everyone is satisfied. So was there any question about what we're doing with those who've been out before? Very often this was about people who suffered from mental illness afterwards – after they returned home. At that time, a special compensation scheme was also introduced for those with mental damage, who had served between 1978 and 2009 – because the organisations and the veterans took it up. It made a strong impression – that was probably the summer of 2010 – when veterans and veteran organisations demonstrated and took this up outside of the Stortinget. The specific compensation scheme was initially 35 G. It was noted that it was too bad, it should be 65 G. Then it was fixed, so that it is possible to get 65 G within that arrangement as well. We're not satisfied with the state of things. Much is done, and more must be done. We're not on target. The defense has done a lot. Now it remains that the civil auxiliaries take the Veterans as seriously as the Defense has done: the Nav, the Health Service, the State pension fund and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e722	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for the fact that this very important matter has been re-examined on the agenda. As already mentioned, since the second war, it has been over 100,000 young men and women who have served in international military missions on behalf of the king and the fatherland, on behalf of magnificence and government. These have been set to solve demanding tasks in complex situations and under time pressure, and they have encountered difficult ethical dilemmas. Soldiers on international missions must be bid to kill on behalf of the Norwegian state and in some situations give their own lives to Norway. It's important that society gives veterans the recognition they deserve for the job they've done on behalf of Norway. As mentioned earlier, most of those involved in international operations were strengthened by it, but unfortunately not all. Too many troubles after they have come home and have trouble reverting to a civil life, as the high suicide rates among veterans show. This was also the theme of the NRK yesterday. Veterinary organisations have repeatedly pointed out failures in the management of labour and welfare personnel involved in international operations. The criticism concerns lengthy processing time, too extensive documentation requirements, lack of internal coordination and low competence on the situation of the veterans. We need to get better here. Although there are some developments in recent years that point in the right direction, we still have a very long way to go before we are at a satisfactory level. A few years ago, Nav added 33 so-called losers in the towns of Bodø, Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Kristiansand and Oslo. This was so that people with easier mental disorders could be unloaded through the system to get a simpler way back to work and activity. The feedback that one gets is that this works very well in Bergen, but in other parts of the country, veterans and others have barely heard about the offer at all. So this is something that one should build on, and one might extend the scheme. The Losanes are for everyone, both veterans and others with mental challenges, but one should probably also have its own veteran coordinator in each state, who could help veterans through a bureaucratic system. The Centre for Life Masters in Jölster, owned by the Bergen Diakonisse home Foundation, is a centre that could offer a range of veterans, but that hasn't got money from the 2013 state budget to start up. The Prom proposed 20 million. kr to start of this offer, but was shaken down. I also want to add that there is a very good amount of volunteer work being done around the country. This includes: Kronstad Headquarters in Bergen, Hordaland. A similar city is Camp Nidaros in Trondheim. These guys are doing a very good job. This is where veterans hit veterans, and there's no one who understands veterans as well as veterans themselves. I'm completely overconfident that the volunteer work done here has saved many lives. In any case, it's government and greatness that decides that young women and men should be sent out on international military missions, and then it's our duty to take care of those who get trouble when they come back after even service. Norwegian soldiers who become mentally and physically injured in the service of Norway must be cared for, both medically and economically, in a much better way than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e743	Society has a responsibility for anyone who gets too sick to work or needs help in a transition phase. That is why we have good systems of health benefits, redundancy benefits and – for those who have permanently reduced health – disability benefits. These arrangements shall be general, they shall be for all, and they shall be good. I believe, however, that we have a special and specific responsibility for our veterans. These are the citizens we politicians are sending out to the most dangerous and war-torn areas in the world: the Balkans, Afghanistan, Congo or Lebanon. These are places where we expect them to be shot at or bombed, or experienced a bomb bursting into the fender when they move out. When Norway decided to send soldiers to e.g. Lebanon and Afghanistan, we knew well that maybe not everyone would come back alive. We also knew that many might come back wounded on body or soul. Nevertheless, we voted to send them out because it was Norway’s security, Norway’s alliance obligations or Norway’s contribution to a better world order through the UN. We did this with open eyes. Therefore, I believe that Norway has a special responsibility for those who are coming back injured, even if it would discriminate against others who are ill in society. That's why I don't think we have to be too afraid to make arrangements that go beyond the arrangements of the people's security if we find that it's expedient. I therefore see no argument in principle against a good compensation scheme, or a pension that goes beyond what others would get. Nor do I see any fundamental arguments against us, for example. creates an office capable of dealing with the special challenges facing our veterans. As has already been mentioned, it is all too often that the civil aid system, both in Nav and in healthcare, does not have enough competence to deal with veterans and their unique challenges. We therefore need to pool this competence so that our veterans, who are becoming more and more of them, get the help they need within a reasonable time. Of course, many do the transition home perfectly well, but those who somehow need the support of civil society when they come home need the necessary help. If this matter had not been so serious, I would have put it a little at the top. And if I were to do that, it would have been close by for a work and social politician to think a little bit about not even war zone experience giving enough competence to find the way through the Nav system. Of course, it's about these soldiers, these heroes, have a very large experience bar in the luggage, in some cases also damage, visible or invisible, when they come home. In addition, a bureaucratic and rigid public system for compensation, pensions or measures to return to civil society does not deserve to be wasted. As has also been mentioned by the interpellant, we now need to get a proper overview of the veterans' living conditions. For a while back, we saw that the defense didn't even have an overview of how many people had been in Afghanistan. We need a good number base to capture at all the extent of the problem: how many are unemployed, how many are disabled, etc. This is essential to get in place as soon as possible. This interpellation has been established by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. Its theme extends far into the thematic areas of responsibility of the Labour and Social Committee. It was worthy that it was raised. It has to be cleaned up further in the field of veto policy. I am not saying that much has not already been done – it can also be said from this pulpit, as the representative Myrli requested – but it was deserving that it was raised. It's not about systems or administration, it's about individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e760	I would also like to thank the interpellant for lifting a very important matter. There is no doubt that a unanimous increase in recent years has done a great deal to raise the status of the veterans and the follow-up and recognition of the veterans by a service. The action plan in service of Norway, with its 126 actions, is a very important step forward, and I would like to thank the interpellant for keeping the theme on the agenda. There is not too much debate about Norwegian veterans, it is too little, and injured veterans who have been in foreign service for Norway deserve our deepest respect and support. So let me first say this: let's not just mention Norwegian veterans as victims. These are people with a competence and experience of very few other people who have been developed by taking risks on behalf of Norway. It also deserves respect and recognition far beyond those of the veterans who need follow-up, help and support. Having said that, I had a very nice conversation in meeting representatives from SIOPS yesterday, and as all the other speakers to date have been involved, there are still major challenges our veterans face, and which we have to take the most seriously. I might think the matter in particular in the newspaper yesterday made a particularly strong impression. No matter how happy I am in Norway, it is not possible to get away from the fact that Norway has had a capacity not to be very close enough to follow up and recognise some of the groups that have gone far enough for its country. For example, the history of war sailors has The representative of Myrli was present. It is a strong and gripping story, and shameful – the victims of the North Sea divers and later battles as well. Many of those who have served for Norway abroad have repercussions on what lasts a lifetime. We have known that since before I was born, but it took a very, very long time before you started doing something about it. For that I think there is a lack of recognition of the reality of these people. It can be difficult for the big community to think about what kind of reality our veterans have been part of. This is not a new issue. The gap between the reality of tense areas and sharp operations on the one hand and a civil life that goes on and on in the home country on the other is tough and demanding for the soldier himself, for the family, for friends and for relatives, no matter how well prepared you are, and what measures you have in place for the soldiers when they come home. The gap is still there. Some of the most important things that have happened in this field in recent years, I think, are the soldiers' own stories, which have begun to come into book form, and which describe a reality far from parliamentary language, press releases and debates. Of course, that's the way it has to be. I'm very concerned about this, because the degree of recognition in a society of what our soldiers actually participate in, what they actually do, and what they're actually exposed to, says a lot about how we can all take care of and watch and follow up the soldiers when they get home. Here we have a piece to go to Norway. Some of the cases that have raised the greatest concern related to Norway’s participation, for example: in Afghanistan, has not been linked to combat actions themselves, but to outbreaks and utterances of soldiers such as ‘valhall’ or ‘ licked’. That things are expressed in conflict that does not necessarily sound so neat, should strictly not surprise anyone. But it did, and to be honest, I think that so many people stood up to it in the Norwegian public, showed a naivety that many in Norway still face with what war is. I think that the country's politicians also have a share of responsibility for this. When the first soldiers serving in Afghanistan came home, there was a great deal that was not in place, and at the top of it there was cracking and partly contradictory stories made by politicians about what our soldiers were doing, and why. The realities of the war must be recognised independently of political positions, and regardless of what one might think of one or the other foreign mission. It has, for example, tended to politicise the soldiers’ own choice of being soldiers, both from war opponents and from strong supporters of Norway’s participation in Iraq and Afghanistan, by making the concept of ‘supporting our soldiers’ a politically charged concept. I think that's a little dangerous, because I'm assuming that everyone in this room supports our soldiers. It should be a matter of course, and it should be completely independent of the democratic debate on what Norway should use armed power for, where and when. There is no doubt that much work remains on behalf of the veterans, but I am very pleased and proud that probably no government has taken hold in that way a red-green government has done. But I say that with the greatest humility, because I know that it's a unanimous greatness, with an overall commitment, that's been occupied with this, and that's still it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e779	It's a timely debate, but it's also a debate that spans a very wide range of issues, as the representative Ine M. Eriksen Soreide has brought up here in Stortinget today. The starting point I think must be a recognition that the ambitions of the Storting in sending soldiers on international missions have been far greater than the ability of the Storting to follow up those who have done such a service in retrospect. It has been discussed by Stortinget on several occasions, on the basis of such recognition. Action has been taken, an action plan has been drawn up, and there has been follow-up of this both by changing states councils and by the Stortinge. Just as fully we have this debate here today, and I think it's coming because it's still so that there's a misunderstanding between our ability and will to and ambition to send soldiers out and our ability and will to and ambition to accept them when they get home. It's a long-term work, and it's a work that has been and will grow. The recognition of that, I think, is very important to establish the basis for what you're going to do in the future. As our policy on contributions to international missions has been developed, this is going to be an ever-increasing part of the responsibility that we as magnification must take – and as government and defence minister – by sending out soldiers. I have asked for the word to comment on a special part of this broad issue. The relationship between the use of the ordinary apparatus and the development of special competence and special organisational solutions for the care of the veterans is under consideration. I think that we need to make an assessment of, as the interpellant has stated, whether we have not reached a point where the extent and complexity of the services that the veterans need, for years after they have come home, suggests a different kind of approach than the one I would initially defend in any context, namely that the general apparatus should be what takes care of the veterans as well. I know that we have developed services, counselling services, etc., and the one-door principle and all of this, but I would say, on the basis of the work I have had for my own part in health care and in the administration of the people's fear – the war pension office in the Reichstrøgdeverket was mentioned, for which I was responsible in my time – that I believe that the dimension of this, the complexity of this, suggests that we need to think differently about organisation. It is not special care, special services or special treatment, but it is simply to be taken seriously that there is a particularly complex issue to be addressed. We have to see it from the point of view of the veterans, and when we see the public apparatus from the point of view of the veterans, it doesn't work properly, as it is organized today. Therefore, on a general basis, I would like to support the suggestions and perspectives of interpellantes, namely that we need to rethink towards specialising and tailoring services for veterans in both healthcare, social services and the social security sector. This does not mean that there is no need for specialist competence of a more general nature, which other groups also need, but it is about organizing not only one door, but a hinterland behind the door that is still attached to the veterans. That is my contribution to today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e788	I would also like to thank the representative Eriksen Soreide for a very good interaction. It's also very concrete. What we are talking about today is the result of decisions taken in this Chamber, where we ask the citizens of Norway to make the greatest sacrifice you can make for us as a nation, namely to be willing to sacrifice your life for us in a war situation. I have grown up with a father who was in the first German brigade, and with a life that was clearly divided into two: it was either before or after Dad was in Germany. All indications throughout youth were distributed from that very point of view. Myrli believes that very much is good. Last year, I brought up a case here concerning a verdict in the Supreme Court, where a soldier had been delayed after cold damage. He lost in the Supreme Court about this as a professional injury because it was not acute. Cold damage is something you don't get acute. You can get cold damage, for example. because you have been told to lie still, or you have been told that you do not have time to change socks. But you can get very big physical damage. In this case, the left of the main hall lost: it was not about changing the rules of professional injury to apply to this type of soldier damage. Yesterday we saw about a intelligence soldier. I don't know what you expect to have evidence of intelligence soldiers' experiences. One thing is what you have from Norwegian soldiers who do open, familiar jobs, but here you have to expect intelligence soldiers to document experiences that may not be documented. This means that we have to look at the entire professional injury process in relation to this group. I think Snorre Serigstad Valen made a very good contribution. I might not have expected the SV to be so open, but I think he had very many, good points. One of the good points is that a lot of people have been sent on a mission from this room without us realizing what they are actually being sent to. The soldiers have probably understood what they have been sent to. The last time I had an interpellation on this topic, in October 2010, I referred to a story about soldiers standing in the midst of a bloodbath during the war in Kuwait. They call the Defence Command to inform the Norwegian authorities that Saddam's principle of having a mortgage on mines was in the process of massacring a lot of people. When you call the Defence Commander and say that you are Norwegian soldiers in Kuwait, you are told that we have no one in Kuwait. The attitude to the problems we've had, we can't keep going, because it's a part of adding stones to the burden for those who do a job that we've sent them to do. It's not as good as Myrli's supposed to have. We're getting a lot of calls from veterans. I can refer from an e-mail I received a few days ago, where he says: For my own part, the lawyer has sent nine-ten reminders to the SPK to get a status on how my case stands. No one's answering. We're only told to wait. Sick phone calls are not answered. These are the people who experience that they stick their heads in the wall both in Nav and in all the other systems we have, and are told that very difficult tasks should fit into some squares in terms of Nav and occupational damage. I don't think we have a health care system that is capable of and competent to do this. How many local governments do you think there are who know how many veterans they have among their own citizens who can get into trouble? This is a group that does not like to ask for help either. This is a kind of man who's been sent out to do a job that they might not expect to be like that. So they don't want to ask for help. Therefore, society as a whole should be on the alert when they decide to do so. Therefore, municipalities should know if they have veterans, so that a regular actually knows where to ask for help that day the veteran knocks on the door and says that it is a little difficult to sleep at night, or there are some memories that come out that are difficult to handle. I would like to give the Council of State a good tip: the suggestions that Ms. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide made, she should definitely add to her work list.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e815	As this debate shows, the conduct of our veterans is not a party political matter. It is a national responsibility, a national responsibility that Minister of Defence Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen was the first to take seriously. We've come a long way. It's a completely different arrangement now than it was, from recognition, preparation and care. But it still remains – I had almost said of course – a lot. When important things remain, it is an expression that there are aspects of this work that are complex and demanding. The representative Dagfinn Højbrätten said – and I fully agree – that we must recognise that this is a long-term work, and if we do not recognise it, we will not find the right grips. This requires more than what the interpellant intended to do, some simple grips. There are many decades of neglect we're talking about, from the German Brigade in 1947 and forward through various missions, such as: The representative Sverre Myrli pointed to. It was high time the Stoltenberg government took this seriously after 2005. This, of course, has also received broad cross-political support in this Chamber. It was supposed to be missing, too. It is good that the opposition now sign up for this work. But it is interesting – it must be allowed to say so – to see how many important things Right discover that something should have been done about it, when they are no longer where the primary responsibility for doing it lies. The action plan has highlighted many – 126 actions. Most of the measures have been implemented, either in full or in part, but important aspects remain to be completed: own military service that will remain permanent in the Defence Staff next year one year's follow-up development of a better model, as pointed out, in the Elverum principle of one door. But now let's not be anxious to appear as the veterans' best defender and friend overlook how demanding part of this work can be. The representative of the Højbrätten gave some thought, I think, to the idea that you might not just use the usual apparatus, but you have to specialise in the veterans. It's possible to do it in some areas. But as far as health services are concerned, I wonder if you might not then be at risk of getting too little competence. Many of the problems experienced by veterans who are of a mental nature may be long-term and may also be triggered by complex aspects, which make the initial causal relationship appear. Of course, the follow-up of those who come home with not only good experiences, but with wounds and experiences that can come down to problems is the most important thing. However, preparations are also important because they can prevent. It's about the selection of who's going to travel, giving them the best possible understanding of what they can meet out there when we talk about as sharp assignments as the ones we've been in in Afghanistan. It's also about custody during the mission, and that the family of those who travel must be part of all of this, because it can also help to ensure that those who come home with experiences and wounds that they may not recognize themselves are discovered in time, before it has gone too long and ends with a personal tragedy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e845	Let it be clear that the Right is extremely satisfied with all the good forces that contribute to strengthening Norwegian veterinary policy. I might not have thought that this debate was to any particular extent about the Workers' Party feeling wrong in connection with this interpellation. We thank the representative Svein Roald Hansen's compliment to us that it is good that the opposition now joins in this debate. It was just supposed to be missing. We've been on this ball for quite a while, and the government parties are now in their eighth year. No one expects this policy to appear totally seamless, but I assume that the Workers' Party also receives the same information as all of us, from those affected by this matter. I think the representative Serigstad Valen made a very good and thoughtful contribution to this matter. It illustrated in many ways the challenge we have. The history of Lebanon and the Balkans is one thing, but now we have 7 000-8 000 Afghan veterans who are going to face this challenge in the future. It is quite right, as the representative Serigstad Valen says, that all of these are not victims, but regardless of their background of experience, some lack of preparation and the challenges that have been experienced by those in Afghanistan, we know that this is going to be demanding, in order to use both the Ministry's and Defence's own language. We all – cross-politically – want to give our veterans the recognition they deserve. As the representative Skei Grande was in, they have participated on behalf of the government and the Stortinget, and they have carried out the toughest and most demanding challenges on behalf of the Norwegian community. I share the view of those who have underlined the thought-provoking report from the Dagsrevy yesterday, where a report shows that up to 200 veterans have taken their own life in the period from 1980 until today. This is a brutal number, and we get that as a background for the further debate. In the defense's own communication, I'm not sure that it serves the defence, nor the debate, if you try to draw this information towards doubt and compare these figures to standard population statistics for suicide in the nation, otherwise. It is not certain that with the flawed calculations, investigations and reports that the Defense itself has, that from there one should be better qualified to enter these figures than what the referenced survey in the Daily Review revealed. An important issue in the extension of this extremely important interpellation is related to the rights that the veterans have been given in a commendable way. I believe that many people are not aware of their own rights or complaints, and that the information they receive about this can be perceived as defective. As most people have been involved, the veterans do a very formidable job in information. But as I see it, it's not a real right if it's the case, not knowing it or having the resources to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e862	I'm a veteran and proud of it. I'm a veteran and proud that at the age of 26, I chose to use a year in the Army's uniform to give the people of Lebanon a safer everyday life. I'm veteran and proud that I, along with many thousands of other young Northmen, learned that democratic processes and human rights are not coming free, but must be fought for and defended. I'm a veteran and proud that as a young man, I had the opportunity to see Norway from the outside and got a slightly different perspective on what it means to have a hard time. It's about thanking the interpellant for bringing up the topic we're discussing today. It is a topic which, unfortunately, is no less topical now than the last time we debated it in this Chamber. It's a very topical issue, but unfortunately it's not a new issue. It has been said today that since the Second World War we have had about. 120000 Norwegians out in various foreign operations. The very ones, most of them have come back richer on experiences and impressions. For me, a year in Lebanon in the early 1990s became both important and upbuilding. It shaped me and my life in a positive way. I know that also applies to very many of the others I served with. In fact, a little bit of a message, I would add that these people that we've been out in foreign operations are an important resource for Norway. These are people who have had different perspectives on life, and who have seen Norway from the outside in a way that is far from all bad. Unfortunately, there is a resource we haven't been very good at appreciating. However, and it must be said, with full support from an overall increase, the government has implemented several positive actions in recent years. A big message has been provided on the protection of defence personnel before, during and after international operations, and legislative changes have been made to strengthen the rights of veterans. The feedback on the veterans has been finalised and the action plan has been adopted. The action plan is good in many ways, but unfortunately it has not yet been able to meet the promises attached to it. In the process, we acquire more knowledge that suddenly reveals new needs. There is one side to this case that probably makes some of the lack of reality experienced by many veterans in the meeting with public Norway visible, and – I would add – is a great frustration for those waiting for help. The introduction of an objective liability for personal injury in international operations distinguishes between when one was on duty. For psychological damage suffered before the law came into force on 1 January 2010, a separate compensation scheme has been put in place. This is a small picture that public Norway has had a lack of understanding of the kind of reality experienced by the veterans. That the government believes that we have a greater responsibility for soldiers who are in service after 2010 than for those who were out there before, can't be right, and there's probably a little bit of frustration here. My impression is that the defense has gradually done a better job with this matter, but that the way to understanding in other public offices is long and very steep. We're not going to follow a lot of debates in Stortinget until we can get a suspicion that Nav might not be completely on track when it comes to meeting people with such a complicated and difficult background as any of these veterans have. Perhaps we should then come to the realization that we should gather the good cancers and create an apparatus that better takes care of this. In an earlier debate, I said that the Minister of Health, with his background as Minister of Defence, was well enough to see this picture. Now Stroem-Erichsen is back as Minister of Defence, and I have good hope that her experience in the health and care sector will also give her better basis for making these assessments. With respect for all those who work in care Norway, these can often be difficult assessments. Powering up the skills that we're gradually getting, in a forum that can take care of these difficult things, I think can be the next, right way we honor these people, who have done an important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e885	Recognition requires recognition – recognition of what soldiers have been on, recognition of what it can mean to come home, severely traumatized, from experiences you never forget, and recognition that it can take a long time, it can take many years, before the damage turns out to be visible. I would like to thank you for a very good debate, a rich debate, and a debate that I hope has helped bring the question to injured veterans yet another step forward. There are some of the measures that are of a long-term nature, and there are some of the measures that are of a more short-term nature, with which we can do something — now. It's about the question of evidence requirements and assessment of evidence. It's about starting the work of getting to a post after the pattern of the war disability office. There are things that can be started pretty soon. I used a lot of my post to say what measures I think are positive for the veterans, things that have been good, and things that have been done by a whole political Norway. I therefore think it is rather disappointing that where all parties have largely stayed away from party politics, the Labour Party found out that this was the arena to beat political swings. I don't think the veterans and relatives sitting in this gallery today deserve that. They deserve a total accumulation that takes up their affairs. The question of evidence requirements and assessments of evidence is really about the fact that today it is the individual soldier who bears the responsibility – and to the extent that the consequences – for what is a system of lack of evidence. I fully agree with the Minister of Defence that it is quite clear that there will be evidence requirements, it is quite clear that there will be documentation requirements, but, as the Minister of Defence says, there are therefore stricter evidence requirements for 65 G by 2010. The paradox is that before 2010, for damage that goes back many years in time, it is precisely the documentation requirement that is difficult, because there are no battle logs, or because, as both Trine Skei Grande and others have been involved, the information that the veterans are sitting on, which can help explain their damage and their trauma, is classified. It makes this especially difficult. There are a lot of things that both the defense and the civil auxiliaries can still contribute, but I want to use the last seconds of my post to refer to something the whole community can do to strengthen the case of the veterans. In the United States, there are a lot of war veterans. One company has chosen to focus specifically on how to work in the face of war veterans. It's General Electric. On their websites there is a great article that they are proud to have tens of thousands of war veterans among their employees. It helps to make the veterans look great.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e902	I would also like to thank you for a good debate with many good points. There are many important points that have emerged, and I'll comment on some of them. I think it's important that we listen to the veterans. I actually think we've done more of the last few years than before. I very much agree with Snorre Serigstad Valen, who is talking about these books that have come, with the stories of the soldiers. The most important thing is that, as a society, we understand what their everyday lives are, what experiences they have had, what ethical dilemmas they have had to face, and what assessments they have finally made. These are many who have contributed and have informed our society. We're going to be very happy about that, and I'm pretty sure it'll make it easier to talk to veterans. Many people feel that it's not that easy to talk about the world they're from. Then I have to say that there is no study of suicide, as it may have come to light here – it was referenced to an investigation. There has been no investigation so far into suicide, but there are two important works in progress. It's this living conditions survey, where over 3,000 soldiers, former veterans, are involved, and then it's the Afghanistan survey, with data from 7,200 people. With regard to the recent studies, the Afghanistan study, it will be possible to obtain causes of death, which are an important issue for the ongoing research work, so that we will know more in the future. With regard to the centralisation of competence, this is precisely why we started this project at Elverum. There is, of course, precisely why the Nav Director, the Health and Defence Director – and also the State Councils – were put in the same room, in order to cooperate, to make it easier. I agree that sometimes it takes too much time before it gets into the organisations. But the competence built up in the Baltic Valley is going to go all over the country. It also applies in the health care system. There is a systematic effort to develop skills, to make it easier for a permanent practitioner to contact either the national medical outpatient clinic or the central specialist healthcare service, which has competence and knowledge of veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e913	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e926	I understood the head of the Foreign and Defence Committee – at the end of the previous debate – so that she felt it was inappropriate to conduct policies in this Chamber. Then it is good that I have 30 minutes of speaking time to go through the budget changes that are now to be made in the Ministry of Defence's budget for 2012. The redeployment proposal adds to changes which in total represent an increase in the spending of the Ministry of Defence of just over 230 million. kr in the year’s budget. The annual regrouping proposal is an important tool for ensuring good financial management in the defence sector — a tool for meeting changes that have occurred during the financial year. The objective is to maximise the consistency between the appropriations under each budget chapter and the corresponding items and changes in the budgetary assumptions that have taken place since the adoption of the budget for 2012. a year ago. A single committee agrees with the government principle that the scope of budgetary changes should be kept at the lowest possible level, while at the same time respecting the requirement of realistic budgeting. The amendments for 2012 deal with budgetary changes within some chapters, revenue being formalised, while the government proposes an additional allocation of approximately EUR 20 million. Nineteen million. kr, as a result of the additional costs incurred after the tragic accident of one of the Defense Hercules aircraft during the exercise of Cold Response in winter. Another area I will briefly mention in the course of the year's budget changes is the government's proposal to hold back funds on the capital chapter for investment, funds that will be redeployed to the new chapter on fighting aircraft investment in the coming years. In the context of this concrete change, the Committee has asked the Ministry about the possible consequences of reductions and redeployments in material investments for the rest of the Defence. The Ministry of Defence has replied to the Committee that these redeployments in material investments are not to affect the military's highest priority operational capabilities, do not weaken personnel security, and do not reduce the possibility of reaching the operational ambitions set out in the new long-term plan. And perhaps the most important thing: that the changes will have little impact on the overall operational capability. I found reason to mention this before we go to voting. At the same time, it is a very important issue for future Norwegian defences in terms of investment and, in particular, in relation to the investment in combat aircraft. An overall committee requires the Storting to be kept thoroughly and continuously informed of the possible operational consequences of the changes in material investment. Finally, it is a unanimous committee that supports the Government's proposals for changes to the 2012 defence budget. I'm sure the hall is very sorry that I don't use the rest of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e943	To the delight of the Foreign Affairs Committee and to the dismay of other representatives, the President understood that there should be no debate at all, but of course we are open to it. We see that there are speakers who have signed up, and that is good for the debate and the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e946	I am somewhat uncertain whether it would have brought much more clarity in the matter if the representative Myrli had used his measured 30 minutes. The majority is again presented by the Minister of Defence where, unfortunately, the level of information is out of proportion to the major changes proposed. So it's going to be going to be 3 billion. kr only in this reclassification proposition. By 2020, this proposition has an efficiency of nearly 12 billion. kr. So it is not – as the representative Myrli had in mind – purely budgetary changes that are being made. These are movements which have consequences for the operation of the Norwegian defence. It could be tempting to say ‘what did we say’ with regard to fighting aircraft investments and operations from the Right. We'll probably have plenty of opportunity to get back to this, but the makeup is this regrouping proposition, the start of additional appropriations for the fighter flight purchase. Estimated amount of 9 to 15.5 billion. kr of the total investment has not yet been financed, since the government did not choose to follow the military professional advice of the chief of defence, which provided that 37.5 billion. kr had to be financed outside the Defence Operations Budget. The comprehensive explanation in this brief and, I was going to say, the proposition is that there is a need for later payments, there are delays – it has brought the department quite right in terms of material investment – there is less need, etc. Some of the explanations are rather surprising, not least with regard to the previous inter-political, good arguments for increased and enhanced online defence efforts, etc. We note that it is actually under pressure in this short proposition – the regrouping proposition – that the changes could lead to lower stamina in parts of the structure. Yeah, lower endurance, but where? The purchase of the aircraft – as we have talked about repeatedly in Stortinget – will take place in the Norwegian defence budget, but only now will the consequences of this, what kind of consequences it will have for the other sectors of defence and the operation of the defence. It's definitely so that the calculations for the operation of the defenses won't go up. There may be some excuses for decorating the paper – as has been seen both in the proposal and in the statements made by the rapporteur – but this does not reduce the challenges that the defence will bring about in the future. Finally, I expect the Minister of Defense, when the time comes, to come back to Stortinget with a briefing on the actual flight purchase, to echo yesterday's news that Canada has now started a whole new process of buying new fighter aircraft, like other countries moving away from or down in the F-35 level of ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e961	The President stated that there was no expected debate on this matter. It seems that those who have written the proposition have not expected or wanted to debate either. The starting point when we deal with a regrouping proposition like this is that it deals with budgetary changes. Of course, it contains a part of it. It proposes additional appropriations for expenditure incurred after the tragic accident in which a military transport plane crashed and the crew died. Of course, it gets the unanimous support of the Storting. Nor shall I go into the long range of minor adjustments that must naturally be taken because budgetary assumptions change throughout the year. These are budgetary matters that obviously need to be addressed by the Grand Duchy as an awarding authority, but there are no questions that raise political issues of importance to the main lines of the defence budget. If it were just this, there wouldn't be any need to take the word. When I do, it is because it really calls for attention – and should call on the attention of the Storting – that this proposition introduces extensive budgetary changes to adapt the financing of the new fighter aircraft. There are more than small budgetary adjustments – there are several billion dollars taken out of the investment budget at the end of the year for important defence areas. One moves to billions without explanation other than a cross-referenced table – there is no mention of consequences, no impact assessments. I have to say it has surprised me that the government thought it was sufficient information for the Storting to set up a summarising table that stated how many hundred million dollars were to be taken from different investment programmes for important defence areas. Let me take some of the largest amounts: Land system is taking away 391 million. kr, marine system is deducted from SEK 314 million. kr, air system is deducted from 338 million. kr, Network-based defence is deducted from a total of 772 million. SEK and logistical system are deducted 304 million. kr. So it's proposed to over 2.1 billion. kr is taken from important investment programmes in the Defence without highlighting the consequences to the Stortinget. Several opposition parties, including the Christian People's Party, therefore asked that this be clarified by the ministry before the committee could settle the matter. The response shows that the change in the investment portfolio for 2012 will have a longer-term operational impact, but it is assured that it will not affect the highest priority capacities, does not weaken personnel security and does not reduce the scope for reaching the operational ambitions drawn up in Prop. 73 S for 2011-2012. I consider it appropriate to draw the attention of the Grand Duchy to a majority opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which states that the level of detail of the case - especially in the proposition, but also in the ministry's written answer to our questions - is not at the level that must be expected on a matter of this economic importance. My question to the Council of State is: Is she satisfied – as the responsible Council of State – with the level of information she has put on in view of the Greatness in this matter? Is this the level the Stortinget has the right to expect from this Council of State, or has she taken note of the majority view and will ensure that future propositions contain the necessary mentions of effects and consequences? Is it unreasonable of the Storting to ask for this, to expect it already in the proposition presented by the Ministry? I would also ask the Council of State to come back to Stortinget during the spring 2013 session with a thorough explanation of what the actual implications will be for other important investments and capabilities in the Defence in the years to come. I would like the Council of State to confirm that this will happen. Moreover, this examination of major changes in the Defence Investment Programme at the end of a budgetary year illustrates a little more. It makes it clear that the defence has a very large and complex set of long-term investment programmes, while the real ability of the Storting to gather and review this is limited. It is a problem that has not arisen now, but has been there for many years. But the experience of this regrouping proposition gives us the impression that there is more flexibility and room for manoeuvre than what we have been given the impression in the normal budgetary procedure, and that the Storting gives little insight into this. This is so serious that I have used some of the allocated speaking time to talk about it, and I would like the Council of State to comment on it. I would like to take this opportunity to say that both the Stortinget, the Superintendent of Storting – the Riksrevision – and others who are responsible for following up the Stortinget decision here in the house, need something different than this sylt thin proposition. It has a level that at least I wouldn't be familiar with having submitted to the Storting, it's quite certain. There is no good impression left in this debate. That is why I would like to stress my request to the Minister of Defense to give the Storting an answer as to whether she will add the list higher in the next proposition, and whether she will provide the Storting with an assessment of the effects and consequences, which we have not received a proper assessment of this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e978	My intention is always to give the Storting the information the Storting asks for, and wants to get. That is why we have also done a lot of work to answer the questions asked by Stortinget – and that is of course the case. At the same time, I must say that I am a little surprised by the last article, because I perceive that our budget proposal, that is, the Ministry of Defence's budget proposal, is both comprehensive and detailed. The regrouping proposal is also detailed. There have been two things: the money that is now being regrouped into fighter planes, and what you might do in time to reach the level of 11 billion. kr that the Defence shall withdraw from its own budgets. I want to give an example of this: whether we choose to buy new submarines or to rehabilitate those we have, we can save 3 billion. Depending on when we phase it in. A lot goes on postponements of projects, of course it goes on changes, and of course it goes on cancellations as well. We plan for a long, long time in the future, and sometimes make a change because the frames change. The new long-term plan, for example: has made changes concerning the 2nd Battalion on Shield and the types of equipment and materials to be purchased for the soldiers there. As far as the detail is concerned, I have to say that I'm a little bit surprised, because it's about hundreds of projects that you go through and adjust. But I hear what's needed, and, as I said, my intention is always to give the Storting the information it asks for. But I'm going to assume that the level of detail is also something Stortinget is interested in, whether it's too much or too little detail. Another thing that has come up is the fighter aircraft purchase. We do not consider it serious for the fighter aircraft program that Canada has stopped its procurement process. Canada did not initially have a competition – we have. We have had a very thorough and comprehensive process around the choice of which aircraft we were going to buy. The fact that Canada has been waiting, or has not gone to order, its fighter aircraft – they should have 65, as far as I know – has no influence on the 3,200, or 3, 135, others who are in the fighter aircraft program, where there are also many other countries that are going to buy aircraft. The price of the Norwegian fighter aircraft has not changed significantly on the basis of this, and Canada can still come back and be part of the F-35 programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e989	Dagfinn Højbrätten spent a long time – as he pointed out with a clear voice – raising the majority opinion of the Foreign and Defence Committee. It must then be appropriate to recall that the majority in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence are the parties Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, i.e. the minority in the Grand Duchy. It's the opposition parties that have the majority in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and it doesn't say what the view of the Storting is. The size gets the information that it wants. The government is asking the government for information, and the government is obliged to provide the Storting with the information it has, as well in this case. This is a pattern from the opposition. We saw this in the discussion of the long-term defence sector earlier this year, where the opposition – I think I can use the term – bombarded the Ministry of Defence with hundreds of questions. And then it says that the ministry doesn't give enough answers because the answers don't fit into the reality of the opposition. A number of questions are raised during the budgetary procedure, and it is legal – that is what it should be. The interesting thing is that part of the batches that ask these questions are those that at the same time will cut in terms of departments and public administration. But you're allowed to ask questions. Now we also see in the regrouping proposal that questions are asked to the department, very detailed questions of a level of detail I have never been on in this house before – that is allowed. But again we see that one is dissatisfied with the answers from the department because they don't fit into the reality of the opposition. Finally, the Storting will have the opportunity to discuss the acquisition of fighters for many, many rounds, for many years to come. We're just at the beginning of what's going to be a long and very important acquisition process for Norway and the Norwegian defense. It is supposed to involve the Stortinget, and we have many opportunities to discuss such a big issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1002	It is with a light arrogant tone The Workers' Party is handling Storting's demand for more information. I'm not going to contribute to extending the debate very much, but I just want to remind you of a few other issues we've had in the committee and in this room not long ago, where the problem was exactly the same. When we were asked to authorise the purchase of training aircraft in June 2010, we got a proposition where this was dealt with on one and a half columns – one and a half columns in a proposition. It was only a few days before the government parties expected the option to be released. What the committee had to do was to summon the then Secretary of Defense Grete Faremo to an open hearing. We asked a lot of questions to the department, and we attached the record to the setting. We had to threaten to postpone the whole matter if Stortingen did not get more information. It's obvious that at the moment you buy training planes, you've committed yourself to the project in a completely different way than before. The long-term defence plan, which we discussed in Stortinget as late as June, asked the opposition 291 questions. It must be that the representative Myrli and others think it is completely unnecessary, because they already have the answer. But it's e.g. not without regard to the extent of commuting costs in the defence when, through the long-term plan, with the votes of the government, decisions are to be taken on moving around. When we asked this question, how much commuting costs have been, for example. related to the transfer of FOH to Retan, we got the answer that there will always be commuter costs in the Defence. Let's do it. This is not an answer to the question. Then we had to ask the question one more time, and then we got the answer that it was completely impossible to make tables that were able to show the cost and what was the amount of money spent on commuting – and that is, one can say, worrying about the budgeting procedures in defence overall. So this is an example of why the Stortinget, why the committee, has had to ask questions about things that should have been in the propositions, and which at least it should be easy to give a reasonable answer when the committee asks. So this comes up now, it's not because the committee, or the opposition, doesn't like the answers we get. It's because we either don't get answers, we have to ask for answers several times, or we don't get the information necessary to make decisions in the billions of dollars class, which will affect not only the defence in the future, but the entire budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1011	I choose to interpret the Council of State in the best possible sense when she assures that Stortinget will receive the information that Stortinget is asking for. But this is not just about the fact that the Storting must get answers to the questions asked in the form of letters in committee. It's also about what standard state council intends to deal with in terms of the propositions she promotes for the Storting. That's not how the representative Myrli gives the impression that as long as a majority here is satisfied with a proposition, the Council of State has done its job. It's not that simple. The Council of State – and the Council of State’s office – must deal with an investigation manual and a budgetary regulation which lays down certain essential requirements for the quality of a case submitted to the Stortinget, and not least with a draft budget submitted to the Stortinget. It's no matter what a majority or a minority might think. These are the quality requirements I think you don't meet when you move into billions without proper explanation of what the consequences are. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there's a lot of detail here. In this proposition, there's a lot of numbers, but there's not a single description of the consequences and effects of the movements of numbers you do for the defense and for the activities that the Council of State is responsible for following up. That is what has been called for by a majority of the committee. I expect – and then I will make myself the spokesman for the minority in the Chamber, I understand, but for the majority of the Committee – that we will experience another kind of proposition from the Council of State in the next round, that she gives her office clear instructions that the job done in this context did not meet the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1020	It may almost seem that the chairman of the committee, both in the previous case and in this case, believes that representatives of the government parties should not really take the floor in the Stortinget. Well the opposition is going to do its job, but that's going to be the way! I agree with what the Højbrätt says about the opposition and minority – I even want to call it – the «right» to ask questions. And the government has to answer. The government is obliged to answer the Storing correctly, otherwise the government is out on dangerous roads. But my point was that what was used as an argument – that the majority of the committee believes, and that the majority of the committee wants – does not therefore express what is the view of the majority. I think we can end this debate now. Then I just want to say that if the opposition disagrees with what is being promoted, the opposition should make proposals in the Storting. I record that it is a unanimous attitude that we are now hopefully going to vote on immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1029	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox After it had called the votering, she said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1035	Storting goes to voting on the issues on today's map. There is already a vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox No. No. of vote. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1043	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left the proposals No 4-7, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 8, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 9, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 10, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2013 is authorised under: 1326InterCity AS90Share capital3 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural heritage fund90Fund capital200 000 0001825Changes in energy consumption and energy production95Capital deposits15 000 000 000 0002410State loan fund for education90Increased loans and interest-rate debt, forecast appropriations20 504 785 000241290Loans from the Husbank21 543 000 000 0002421Innovation Norway90Loans from central government to lending activities42 800 000 000 0002425Climate investment91Investing capital500 000 0005999State loan funds90Lån135 946 115 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1221	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2013 is authorised under: Cap.PostFormålKroner286Research fund95Fundamental capital100 000 000 0001350Railway works90Infrastructure fund50 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural heritage fund90Fundamental capital200 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1308	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2013 is authorised under: 1432Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund90Capital Deposits Norsk Cultural Memory Fund1 500 000 0001833CO2 Management95Capital Deposits CLIMIT1 000 000 000 0002410 State Loan Fund for Education90Increased Loan and Interest Debt, Estimated Appropriations20 258 985 0002421Innovation Norway95Equity Capital, Seed Fund500 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1405	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4-7, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2013 is authorised under: 732Regional health enterprises95 Debt-slipped health enterprises1 000 000967 Seed funds90 Capital deposits600 000 0001321 Road funds95 Capital deposits300 000 0000001322 Railway funds95 Capital deposits100 000 0000001323 Storby funds95 Capital deposits100 000 0000001324 Riksvei SF95 Capital deposits11 600 000 0001325 Railway SF95 Capital deposits3 400 000 0002412The Bank95 Equity deposits The Bank of Finland Loans instalments40 000 000 0004533Comprehensive95 Settlement of the common people's fund80 000 0004540National minorities95 Settlement of the Romani people's fund88 000 0005999State loans90Loans651 673 574 000» [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a 100-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. for the construction of continuous double tracks on the Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Skien and Oslo-Lillehammer routes and crossing tracks for long freight trains, and upgrading other sections of railway lines throughout the country.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1634	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government in the 2013 budget to provide an assessment of the effect of fully or partially erasing climate allowances rather than selling them in the market compared to earmarking the benefit of the allowances sale to other emission reduction measures, and to propose either a reduction in allowances or the designation of sales gains to climate action.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1650	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2013 is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner161Industry development90 Capital investment Investment funds u-country10 000 000 000’» [[New]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e1707	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e3893	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-14.ana.ud470e5063	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
