ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e47	The representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Oskar J. Grimstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e55	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Henning Skumsvoll and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on ‘Norwegian hydropower policy’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e60	The representative of Svein Harberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e63	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Elisabeth Aspaker, Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a strategy for increasing internationalisation in education and working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e68	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e71	On behalf of the representatives of Solvency Horne, Vigdis Giltun, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to stop the payment of welfare and social security benefits in the event of child abortion. On behalf of the representatives Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on changes in the Law on the calculation of sickness benefits for freelancers with both employee income and entrepreneurial income.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e78	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e90	The debate in Stortinget following the presentation of important EU and EEA cases last November showed that the commitment to the EEA Agreement is strong in this room and that the EEA Agreement has wide support in Stortinget. Five large numbers and six governments have established this agreement and other central agreements with the EU as the basis for Norwegian policy. In January, the comprehensive research-based review of the experience of the EEA Agreement and other agreements with the EU was included in the report NOU 2012: 2, Outside and within – Norway’s agreements with the EU. This is a comprehensive and thorough document and an important input not only in our societal debate. It also meets with attention in a wide range of European countries and in the EU. I would like to express my appreciation to the research team for the extensive work and, not least, for the way in which analyses and conclusions have been presented in a good and accessible language. The report has two main messages: firstly, it points to the positive effects of the EEA Agreement on parts of Norwegian industry, value creation and society and, secondly, to the weakness of the Treaty on Democracy, Participation and Participation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working well on the follow-up to the evaluations and recommendations of the sample in cooperation with the other departments. The public consultation of the sample report has just been completed. A lot of recordings have been made, and the work on reviewing them has started. The views expressed in the consultation are important in the follow-up to the report. Equal rules and security of non-discrimination are important principles of EEA cooperation. It is an objective of the ongoing government policy to ensure that Norwegian interests can be safeguarded by ensuring this non-discrimination. Increasingly, it will be important for this policy that we become more aware of the scope of the agreement, both in order to influence and contribute where we want, and also in order to set clearer boundaries on what is EEA-relevant, and what is not. The key to the influence and exploitation of the space for action is good organisation and competence on the Norwegian side. We will intensify efforts to ensure that we are politically early enough to promote Norwegian interests as effectively as possible. We want to strengthen coordination in cross-sectoral matters, and we want to look at how we use the space for action in national implementation of the legislation, where it is in our interest. We want a level playing field in administration to ensure better use of existing EU and EEA competences. The government will present to the Stortinget a message focusing on how we can take advantage of the space in our relationship with the EU. We are looking forward to a comprehensive review of this important policy area by the Stortinget on this basis. In this context, let me also acknowledge the so-called Alternative Report, which was presented before Easter. It provides important analyses and proposals, as we take with us in the communication to the Stortinget. We're behind us, and we're in the middle of a difficult time for Europe. We are still in the crisis that hit the world economy in 2008. The crisis is going slowly and through various phases with major economic, social and political consequences. We've seen euro-cooperation put to the test. We have experienced an EU where the agenda has been dominated by crisis packages. There are two issues of particular concern: firstly, increasing unemployment. Secondly, the burden of the crisis and its consequences on people's confidence in democracy, both in individual countries and at European level. We stand in many ways through some crucial road divider in Europe as a result of the economic, political and social crisis. The questions are many. Can we defend our values? Can we continue to strengthen integration in Europe? Can we restore confidence in politics and politicians? And are we able to avoid the minorities having to take the noise? Norway is graced by the worst storms out in Europe. Nevertheless, it is important that we also help to mitigate the crisis, both as a solidarity act and because economic and financial stability in the countries around us also serves Norwegian interests. This is why Norway is making a significant contribution to the IMF’s international efforts, both in Europe and elsewhere. In December, Norway offered the IMF nearly 55 billion. kr in new loans, granted that this was part of a broad international effort, and given the consent of the Storting. The agreement on such an effort is now in place, and the government will shortly submit a proposition to the Stortinget about this. Have we seen the bottom? Does development point up or down? No one will be able to blow the ‘danger’ of Europe’s economy. The situation now seems a little less inconspicuous and somewhat more stable than before Christmas. However, it is still fragile, and the uncertainty is still high. The EU Summit on 1 and 2 March was the first of its kind for a long time when the agenda was not dominated by the crisis alone. But a lot remains. Figures presented at the beginning of May showed record high levels of unemployment in the euro zone. In the labour force, every five Greeks, every seven Portuguese and every ten Italians are now unemployed. But the worst hit is Spain, where every fourth person in the workforce is now out of work. Together with a vulnerable banking sector, strong public sector mitigation needs and a shrinking economy, this gives rise to concerns and concerns in the markets. The situation in Spain illustrates that we are dealing with complex and comprehensive problems. But it's not just about measurable sizes like government debt and interest rate levels. Factors such as trust and expectations are equally important. The fundamental problems facing the EU and many EU countries today can only be solved by steps, by action. Courage and patience must be central. Of the longer-term problems facing Europe as a result of the economic crisis, the increase in youth unemployment is the most serious. In many European countries, unemployment among young people under 25 has doubled or more since the financial crisis occurred four years ago. In Spain, youth unemployment is above 50 pst. and in the EU as a whole over 20 pst. We now also see in Norway the consequences of increasing youth unemployment in Europe. For the first time, we experience an increase in the number of jobseekers from southern Europe. This is in addition to the immigration we have already won from central European countries. Europe cannot afford a generation of young people without jobs and a weakened belief in the future. The Danish Presidency of the European Union has employment as one of its priority areas. It is not enough to clean up government finances to create new jobs. New economic growth must also be created. This calls for a good balance in the formulation of economic policies, where the EU and EU Member States have their monetary and fiscal instruments at their disposal, to be put to the test. Many countries in crisis also need to implement measures in the labour and product markets to improve the functioning of the economy. We have experienced this weekend no less than three choices in Europe. In the French presidential election, the socialist François Hollande, who has signalled a stronger emphasis on young people’s situation and on growth and jobs — and not a one-sided emphasis on savings. In Greece, we have had an election outcome that makes it difficult to establish a government that is capable of governing. The situation is rather unclear, but what is clear is that a self-declared Nynazist party has entered Parliament. It's disturbing. In Serbia, it is also unclear who will win the power of government after the elections of the weekend. Economic problems have also played a significant role in the election outcome. Today, I would also like to say something about a part of Europe that has been a little overshadowed by the news from the crisis in southern Europe, and it is the Baltic and Central European countries that became members of the EU in 2004 and 2007. As still relatively young democracies and market economies, they face a special situation in a Europe of great challenges. On Europe’s day of release, which is today, it is worth recalling the historical trend of these countries, and the importance of this for Norway and Europe. The enlargement of the EU was a courageous decision. It had far-reaching consequences for a part of Europe that has not been historically part of the core of European democracy. The prospect of EU membership and the path to membership itself have served to stabilise and anchor principles of the rule of law, democracy and the market economy. However, the challenges – economic, social and democratic – have been enormous. And the job is not yet finished. The enlargement process itself is still in progress. Since the previous presentation, it has become clear that the EU and the EEA will have a new member in Croatia. Baltic and central European countries are still in the midst of a demanding European integration process. The economic crisis is striking many of them hard, with extensive cuts as a result. My point is that Norway should take joint responsibility for supporting these countries, which are our partners and in many cases allies. We are participants in the same internal market, and although the ten new Member States of the Baltic and Central Europe remain a relatively limited export market for the Norwegian economy, exports between two and threefold from 2005 to 2011, with particularly strong growth from 2010. Growth has actually been faster than growth in our exports to Asia. It's worth noting. Today we sell almost twice as much to these ten countries in the Baltic and Central Europe as we do to China. All indications suggest that this market will continue to increase in importance for the Norwegian export economy. In addition, the EEA funds amount to approximately EUR 1.28 billion. EUR for the period 2004-2009 and approximately EUR 1,79 billion. The euro for the period 2009-2014 had an impact on our bilateral relations with these countries. Agreements with all beneficiary countries for this programme period are now in place, after detailed and detailed work. The last framework agreement was signed with Portugal on 28 March this year. The EEA funds are both a clear and solidarity contribution to economic and social cohesion in Europe. We also make a strong contribution in the environmental sector. In addition, EEA funds are an instrument to promote contact between Norway and the beneficiary countries. The government will submit a message to Stortinget, Meld. Article 20 for the period 2011 to 2012, concerning the EEA funds in this session. It will provide an opportunity to see the importance of EEA funds in a wider political perspective. Tomorrow the state visit to Poland begins. Norway has a closer and ever closer relationship with this country. Yes, Poland is probably the country in Europe that has come to Norway and the Nordics almost since the changes in the early 1990s. Our economic cooperation is growing rapidly. Poland's exports were 5.4 billion. kr in 2005 versus €15.7 bn. kr in 2011. The import was 6.2 billion. SEK in 2005 versus SEK 13.4 billion. kr in 2011. Poland is also the country receiving the most EEA funds – 578 million. EUR for the period 2009-2014, approximately EUR 1 billion. kr per year – providing extensive cooperation with the country. It is probably the country that receives the most money for development purposes by all of Norway’s partners. Poles are currently the largest immigrant group in Norway. We've had a great deal of use and pleasure in this. Poles in Norway contribute to strengthening ties with Poland, and around 1,500 Norwegian students in Poland contribute similarly. We're going to evaluate the effects of these contact surfaces. Poland has so far been successful through the economic crisis. In 2011, it implemented an EU Presidency which is considered to be very successful. The increasing importance of Poland as a heavy player in Europe also makes our bilateral relationship more important. It is of great importance to us that a neighbouring state to which we have so many strong ties is growing as a new centre of strength in European policy. The government will therefore work to strengthen and further develop relations with Poland. Norway also has a close relationship with the Baltic States. The Norwegian economic exposure in the region is significant. Norway is the fourth largest foreign investor in Estonia, the sixth largest in Latvia and the eighth largest in Lithuania. Our political cooperation is closer than with most other European countries, including the United States and Japan. also through Nordic-Baltic cooperation. At local and regional level, too, the bands are tight. In particular, Latvia and Lithuania have experienced a very difficult time during the financial crisis, with a sharp fall in GDP and an increase in unemployment. Estonia, which has become a member of the euro zone, is better off. It is striking to what extent the Baltic countries have been able to cope with major economic challenges. At the same time, they are also examples of how small and open economies are particularly vulnerable to the social consequences of economic crises. This underlines the importance of the contribution the EEA funds can make. Through these means, we also contribute to strengthening fundamental European values such as democracy, the rule of law and tolerance. Combating racism and hateful expressions is important, especially among young people. The Roma and other vulnerable groups need special attention. In Europe, in particular, the Council of Europe provides standards for human rights and justice. In order to strengthen our efforts in these areas, we have therefore just involved the Council of Europe as an active partner in several EEA programmes – which thus benefit directly and indirectly from EEA funds. Many, including at home, are looking at developments in Hungary with great concern. The economic situation is in crisis. The use of a constitutional majority in Parliament by the government for, inter alia: Rewriting the Constitution raises concerns from many teams. The EU has initiated infringement proceedings and has notified possible measures against the country. Heavy voices in civil society, both inside and outside Hungary, respond to the politicisation and unification of society. Not least, the well-founded concern that an extreme right-wing party – Jobbik – has worked up considerable support. Jobs, which have a racist, anti-Semitic and demagogic rhetoric even associated with uniformed groups, are allowed to make life more difficult for minorities such as the Roma and Jews. It does not necessarily have to be a democratic problem for a government with a large majority behind it in Parliament to exercise the power it has gained through open and free elections, as the FidesZ government has done. But democracy is about more than free elections. It is also about fundamental justice, rights and respect for the diversity of society. This requires that those exercising political power do not undermine the platforms of a society and should have, in order to promote opinions and interests other than those of the rulers. Norway is a friend, partner and ally with Hungary. The historical ties are many and strong. Therefore, we should point out that the developments we see in Hungary today give cause for concern, and we should dare to take these concerns up with our Hungarian counterparts. I have also pointed this out to my Hungarian colleague. The construction of well-functioning democracies is a continuing and ongoing project. This applies not least to the relatively young democracies of the Baltic and Central European countries. But the economic crisis has shown that it also applies elsewhere. Well-functioning democratic policies must cope with heavy – and many – threats: governance problems, corruption and the promotion of their own interests at the expense of the community. The consequences – where this is provided – are clear: mismanagement, wasted resources and lost trust. Such problems have the best living conditions in which democracy is narrow, where few engage, few have information and few are heard. Therefore, an active and strong civil society is a crucial component of the further building of democracy in Europe. Through the EEA funds, we have now completed negotiations on NGO funds – i.e. with voluntary, non-governmental organisations – with all beneficiary countries. These funds will represent a very large proportion of total funding for the voluntary sector in these countries. This is particularly true in areas such as the building of democracy and the promotion of human rights. This in turn means that the development of civil society in a large part of Europe over the next few years will be affected by Norwegian funds. We're going to be conscious of this role. It provides a unique opportunity for Norway to make a contribution of lasting value to the further development of democracy in Europe. When the Treaty of Lisbon came into force, one of the objectives was to make the EU a clearer foreign policy player. High Representative Catherine Ashton has a demanding task of putting the EU on international policy at a time when the attention of EU countries is primarily focused on resolving the economic crisis. Collecting the 27 behind common positions is a laborious work with many counterpowers. Ashton's task is to establish the basis for the new EEAS and the working method of a common foreign policy. She has solved that task with great patience and flexibility. From the Norwegian side we value that she and her service have shown an open door to Norway in many areas. Together, we have shown that we can cooperate closely and effectively, as in the Middle East, where Ashton was hosted when Norway headed the last AHLC meeting in Brussels in March, in the development of Arctic policy marked by Ashton's visit to Svalbard in February, and in relation to Myanmar, where we coordinated the message of the reform forces in that country. The world needs a strong European voice that can stand up for values such as human rights, democracy, the rule of law and equality. We also see that the EU has again taken the lead in international climate negotiations. It is in Norway’s interest to have a strong EU in the field of foreign policy, because it is with the European countries that we have the most common interests. We have very similar values and assessments with the EU, and our cooperation in the field of foreign policy is – and should be – close. The interface and cooperation between the EU and Asia are also developing rapidly. In total, the EU and Asia comprise about 60 pst. of the population and economy of the world. Through the so-called Asia-Europe Meeting, ASEM, there is a permanent meeting place between the governments of Asia and Europe, with the EU at the centre of Europe. At the initiative of Norway, it is now clear that other European countries outside the EU can also participate in this cooperation. Norway’s formal agreement will take place at the ASEM meeting in Laos later this year. It will allow us to take care of our interests in an important international meeting place where issues such as climate and environment, finance, energy, the north and democratic development can be discussed. Foreign policy cooperation with the EU also has a parliamentary side. In this context, I would like to commend the Storting for securing Norway's permanent observer status with four representatives in the forum to exercise parliamentary supervision of the EU's foreign, security and defence policy. This is a significant breakthrough and will provide us with more predictability and a useful insight into what is happening in this area in the EU from the harvest. In some contexts, strong, common European markers are important, as in the face of developments in Belarus, where developments are worrying. Over time, the EU has imposed sanctions against Belarus, to which Norway has also joined. The EU and Norway – not least by the involvement of the representatives of the big business – are also working to support the efforts of democracy in Belarus through contacts with civil society. One example is the European Humanities University in Vilnius, which offers higher education to Belarusian students outside the country. Norway supports this university through the Nordic Council of Ministers. EU neighbourhood policy is not just south and east – as is the case with the Arab world, where Europe has both responsibilities and opportunities to make a positive contribution. It also extends to the north, to our neighbourhoods. It is in Norway’s interest for the EU to become more committed in the north. We also have many common interests with the European Union in the field of Northern Region policy. It is desirable that the EU acquire increased knowledge of the northern regions, which contributed to the visit of High Representative Ashton to Svalbard. The EU’s cross-border programme in the north, such as Interreg., is important both for Norway and for our neighbours in the region. Through, inter alia: The EU’s northern dimension is Norway – together with Iceland and Russia – in close dialogue with the EU on Northern Region Policy. On the Norwegian side, we want the EU to be even more committed to regional councils. We therefore support the EU's desire for permanent observer status in the Arctic Council. In the EU, the common fisheries policy is under review. Norway has actively participated with our views on how this policy should be developed. This is important because the EU and Norway manage common stocks, but also because Norway has a fisheries policy that provides good results. The European Commission has proposed several measures that will draw the common fisheries policy closer to Norwegian. A good example of this is the proposal to introduce a draft ban in the EU, i.e. the prohibition of discarding fish that are fished but have no quota. This is a guiding principle in Norwegian fisheries management. We are therefore pleased that this principle has now been proposed throughout the EU. Finally, on this point of foreign policy cooperation with Europe, let me also mention the dialogue on foreign and security policy with our Nordic neighbours. Nordic cooperation in this field is developing despite the membership of different organisations such as the EU and NATO. A few days ago, the Nordic Foreign Ministers were gathered in Stavanger, where we, among other things, discussed how the Nordic countries can coordinate and reconcile their efforts with the countries of the Middle East and North Africa, as a result of the Arab Spring. We were also there able to mark clear Nordic and European positions in relation to worrying developments in countries such as Belarus and Hungary, thus marking a political message that these leaders get. The EU's common energy policy has become much more ambitious. The energy area is an important interaction between Norway and the EU. We are the EU's largest energy supplier after Russia. Now, as in the past, the secure supply of energy is one of the key prerequisites for economic development, both in our country and in the EU. This also makes a positive Norwegian contribution towards a Europe in economic crisis — the predictability that Norway will deliver under agreements. At the same time, we see that climate policy is giving new leadership to energy policy. It's natural, and it's desirable. In addition, major changes are taught when the largest economy in the EU, Germany, has decided to phase out nuclear power. The EU is preparing a roadmap for the energy sector by 2050. The starting point is a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95 pst. below 1990 levels in 2050. The Roadmap is now being discussed in the Council. We have recorded Norwegian views on this road map in several rounds and will continue to follow closely the EU processes in the future. The road map contains five different scenarios for the development towards 2050, all leading to the decarbonisation of energy production. All scenarios represent an increase in renewable energy within the EU. All scenarios also place gas in a key role as the clearly most climate-friendly option among fossil energy sources. In the longer term, the development of CO2 capture and storage, so-called CCS technology, will become more important. Therefore, the clear presence of the EU through energy commissioner Oettinger at the opening of the test centre at Mongstad yesterday, 7 May, was welcome. The EU has also made proposals in recent years concerning aspects relating, on the one hand, to aspects within and on the other, outside the geographical scope of the EEA Agreement. I am thinking in particular of the proposal for a regulation on offshore safety, which the European Commission presented last autumn. Let me make it clear: we share the desire for the highest possible safety in the offshore industry, but it has to be done in a way that contributes to achieving the objectives, and it must not create confusion. Regulation of areas outside the geographical scope of the EEA Agreement will, in our opinion, not be EEA-relevant. Furthermore, in our view, the proposed regulatory framework for offshore safety has a marginal impact on the internal market. With the exception of the objective of protecting against pollution, the purpose of the Regulation is also outside the substantive scope of the EEA Agreement. We therefore assume that there will also be no factual reasons to believe that this Regulation – should the EU end up adopting it – must be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This does not mean that Norway will refrain from improving the safety of offshore petroleum activities in Europe. On the contrary — Norway has over decades developed a well-established system to ensure the safety of its oil industry. This is recognised in the EU and serves as an example in many contexts. Yes, Commissioner Oettinger even told me that the Norwegian system here was the gold standard. Norwegian authorities will continue to cooperate actively with our partners in the EU to contribute to the continued development of EU legislation in this area. As indicated in the so-called Alternative Report, it is important to get on the road early in the development of the new EU regulations and directives. The NOU report also shows that. Our dialogue with the EU on the Offshore Security Regulation is a good example of how the government works to intervene with new legislation, clarify positions and clarify EEA relevance at an early stage. Taking advantage of the space provided by the EEA Agreement is something we work on every day. But we can get better. And we can become more aware of what opportunities we have, especially when it comes to assessing EEA relevance and implementing legislation. We have cases where we have used the action space well, for example. in the case of the case of a fall-back, the Gas Market Directive and a differentiated employer’s fee. A new example of exploitation of the space for action is the Audiovisual Media Services Directive – the so-called AMT Directive. I briefed the Storting in February that the government would include that directive in the EEA Agreement, but with a clear strategy for how we would practice it. This Directive establishes the framework for television broadcasting activities and ensures the unaltered transmission of television broadcasts within the EEA territory. The Directive lays down minimum requirements for the advertising of alcohol, but does not prevent countries from having stricter national provisions. We're going to use this option. The Norwegian ban on alcohol advertising in all media under Norwegian jurisdiction remains in place. In integrating the Directive into the EEA Agreement, we believe that the ban on alcohol advertising in targeted consignments from abroad can also be maintained. Another aspect of this space is the right of reservation, which is enshrined in Article 102 of the EEA Agreement. Politically, the right of reservation is of fundamental importance. EFTA countries have never previously made use of this possibility to oppose the inclusion of EEA-relevant legislation. As Stortinget is well known, we have made it clear to the EU from Norway that we do not want to include the third EU postal directive in the EEA Agreement. The government is standing at this position. We are also firmly committed to the fact that we are ready to follow the procedures of the EEA Agreement in its continuation, and note that the EU now has the matter under consideration. As has been explained on previous occasions, in important areas of work, attention is drawn to the relationship between EEA legislation and Norwegian law. The government emphasises that we can get even better involved in issues relating to working life, especially at the earliest possible stage. The Temporary Agency Directive, which is a central directive in the field of working life, aims to give better rights to hired workers. At the same time, the government is committed to ensuring that it does not undermine the objective of a labour market with a major focus on fixed-term employment. The implementation of the temporary agency directive introduces regulation to ensure equal treatment between hired and direct employees in important areas, while at the same time maintaining the norm in Norwegian working life on permanent, direct employment. It is considered that the current Norwegian rules restricting access to hire of labour can be maintained by the implementation of the Directive. There is still concern about the Posted Workers Directive. In recent years, a leading judge from the European Court of Justice has created a certain degree of uncertainty across the EU/EEA area, relating to access to the conditions of pay and employment of workers sent on behalf of another EEA country, and to the management of such requirements, as well as to the use of collective means of fighting such as strikes. Issues related to the Broadcasting Directive are a key issue for the government in the field of working life. The Ministry of Labour is still in dialogue with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, as regards the rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts. Civilisation law has recently dealt with the relationship between the EEA Agreement and aspects of the Norwegian public service scheme. The verdict in the case has not been given at this stage. The European Commission has recently submitted proposals for two new legislative acts relating to the Broadcasting Directive, respectively a draft directive to ensure the enforcement of the Directive and a regulation on the relationship between fundamental rights in the field of working life and the EU internal market, the Monti II Directive. The proposal for a enforcement directive proposes measures to ensure that posted workers are given the working conditions they require, such as: through improved control measures. Furthermore, it is proposed that the right to collective means of combat should be equated with economic freedoms. These proposals are controversial in the EU. The social partners are far from each other in the view of them, and they are promoted at a time of some considerable disagreement on labour market policy and regulation in the labour markets. Governments in Spain and Italy work, for example: with proposals to simplify new employment. It will therefore be difficult for the European Commission to reach agreement on its proposals. No Norwegian position for the two proposals has yet been defined. In the future, we will follow closely the process of these proposals. The difficult situation on financial markets is also reflected in EEA cooperation. The new financial sector supervisory bodies of the EU have been in operation since 1 January 2011. Norwegian authorities are interested in participating in these bodies. The financial supervision has provisional practical access as an observer. However, the right of supervisory bodies to take decisions directly applicable to individual companies raises legal issues that need to be resolved for Norway, which is not a member of the EU. The government has worked both hard and long with the Deposit Guarantee Directive. As both the finance minister and I have previously explained, we are trying to get a provision into the directive itself that will enable Norway to continue today's system with a guarantee amount of 2 million. kr per depositor per bank. We have not yet had an impact on our vision. Work is demanding and targets some EU Member States in particular at this stage. In its examination of the Directive, the European Parliament has adopted a separate provision which will in practice only have effect for Norway and ensures – if it remains in the final Directive – that Norway can continue its guarantee system. This, I believe, is the result of the fact that both the magnificence and the government have worked well towards the decision-making process of the European Parliament. Environment is another central part of EEA cooperation. The EU ETS is a cornerstone of European efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The revised EU-wide ETS Directive from 1 January 2013 shall also apply in Norway. This Directive is not yet incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This is a very complex matter, and it has taken a long time to agree on the content of the EEA Committee decision. A draft decision was forwarded to the EU at the end of March of this year and the EEA Committee decision is expected by September at the latest. The challenge is that EU legislation must be implemented in Norwegian just in good time before summer if Norway is to be included as an integral part of the EU quota system. In order to achieve this tight timetable, the government has made a proposal for changes to the Climate Quota Act. In addition, Stortinget has been asked to give prior consent to Norwegian participation in the EEA Committee decision. In my recent report, I have been faced with some of the challenges facing Schengen countries together. A common travel area without internal border control shall require all Member States to carry out their external border checks in a proper manner. Both the economic crisis and the political development of Europe's southern neighbourhoods have put this premise under pressure. I think those who have followed the election campaign both in France and in Greece have seen how much it can get on the verge. In order to strengthen Schengen cooperation and prevent future problems, the Council of the European Union has decided to conduct half-yearly debates at ministerial level. These debates shall contribute to the political and strategic strengthening of Schengen cooperation and shall take place in the Joint Body in which Norway participates. These debates will focus on areas where evaluations have identified weaknesses or shortcomings. For Norway, it is positive that the debate on governance of the EEA area is strengthened and takes place in a body in which we are involved. It strengthens our prerequisites for the effective use of the space for action. The European Commission presented in January a proposal for a complete revision of EU data protection legislation. The proposal consists of a Regulation and a Directive which will both be relevant to Norway through the EEA and Schengen Agreements respectively. The purpose of this revision is, in particular, to update the regulatory framework for today’s digital reality. The European Commission's proposals provide greater protection for consumers, including: through a strengthened right to both the deletion and movement of data. The role of national data controllers, both individually and in cooperation, is also extended. Our preliminary assessment is that the proposal will strengthen privacy both in Norway and in Europe. Privacy was also a central issue when the Stortinget last year dealt with the Data Storage Directive. As Stortinget is well known, the Data Storage Directive is not yet incorporated into the EEA Agreement because it is still under assessment in Iceland. The EU is revising the Directive. Work is still at an early stage. From the Norwegian side, we will follow this work carefully. I can also mention that Sweden has now, for its part, implemented and implemented the directive. We are concerned with strict rules on the storage and use of stored data, in line with what we have in our national legislation. An important element of EEA cooperation is our ability to participate in EU programmes. During the autumn of 2011, the European Commission has presented proposals for a series of new programmes to cover the next long-term budget period, i.e.: from 2014 to 2020. The biggest of these is Horizon 2020, on research and innovation. The second largest is Erasmus for All, which brings together all current programmes for education, training, youth and sport. Both programmes include cooperation with third countries and shall support the Europe 2020 strategy, where education and research are two of the five objectives to contribute to growth and employment. Horizon 2020 integrates research and innovation, prioritises societal challenges, strengthens fundamental research and is an important instrument for the development of the European Research Area. Major administrative simplifications are envisaged, and Norway is using both political and other channels to promote Norwegian views on this proposal. When we touch on research and innovation, we are back in many ways where I started this presentation: at the crisis in Europe. Everyone agrees that Europe cannot spare itself out of this crisis. Europe also needs new economic growth and new jobs. Not all the growth we have seen in Europe in the last decades have been sustainable and healthy. The high levels of government debt in many European countries bear witness to this. Another important challenge is to avoid the disparities we now see in employment, with youth unemployment, and where there can be a continuing phenomenon. It is dangerous for both politics and social stability. The challenge will be to build an innovation culture that can generate the growth Europe needs and combine it with a responsible budgetary policy. At the same time, growth must benefit vulnerable groups; there must be fair distribution mechanisms. We cannot live in the long run with the youth unemployment we see in Europe today. We risk that Europe’s most important capital – the social and human – is simply confused. This requires holistic approaches and long-term solutions in a common European framework. The EU 2020 strategy is such an approach and has great implications for a Norwegian business that sends about two thirds of its exports to the European market. Finally, what is happening in Europe — now as before — affects Norway for both good and bad. We are part of the European value base, the political system and the economic market. Therefore, Norway contributes as constructively as we can, and as solidarity as we can, to meeting the economic, political and social challenges facing the EU and many European countries. Ultimately, these challenges are also ours. It requires a continued active European policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e248	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e264	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e273	During the last harvest budgetary procedure, the Progress Party would cut 2 billion. kr in the sickness pay scheme. Hardly was the Christmas holiday over before the same party proposed a strong extension of the health pay scheme, so that patients with severe diagnosis who have used up their one-year sick pay period can get sick pay for another 14 weeks when they have the prospect of getting well. Furthermore, they propose the introduction of a time-accounting system for sick persons, in order to increase flexibility in the withdrawal of sick days and, finally, propose that a derogation be made from the waiting period of 26 weeks before new health insurance can be granted. These are the proposals we are considering today. Common to them is that in sum they will increase the cost of health pay by billions. We have gradually become accustomed to opportunism and the lack of coherence in the policy of the Progress Party. I don't want to use unparliamentary expressions when I'm going to describe the politics of other parties. One thing is that the Progress Party pushes seriously ill cancer patients in an attempt to win political gains. Worse still, the Progress Party allows itself to accuse the majority of the population, all other parties with the exception of the Left, of producing cancer patients as abusers of the sick pay scheme. I perceive such behavior as an insult to anyone who tries to act with a minimum of political propriety. Without my particular concern for possible civil cooperation in the run-up to the roll-up elections in 2013, such accusations can hardly arouse particularly warm feelings among potential partners. Norway has the world's most shy sick pay system, with full pay under sickness for a whole year. Patients with severe illness who are still in treatment after one year and who are not in work then switch to redundancy benefits, which is a slightly lower benefit, usually two thirds of previous income. Of course, any loss of income is tactile, but the redundancy money is at the level of other social security benefits in this country. I have not yet registered any pressing political desire to increase the social security costs further. On the contrary, we have put considerable effort into reducing them. I remember that sick leave has fallen significantly in recent years, with a saving effect of 3 billion. kr, which can therefore be released for other good purposes. An important reason for reducing sick leave is undoubtedly the good cooperation between the authorities and social partners on the IA agreement. It is worth noting that both the NHO and the LO are warning us not to go into this proposal, because they fear that there will be further debate and pressure on the whole medical system and the IA agreement. There is also reason to note that the bulk of the population, all except the Progress Party and the Left, now say that they will protect the health pay system as an important welfare asset. Now, of course, it remains to be seen how far this consensus goes, but I assume that we will release new attacks on the health pay system, at least until over the 2013 elections. However, I make a natural exception for the Advance Party. I might wonder if the Progress Party itself understands the consequences of what they are proposing. In this case, they therefore propose extending sick pay to patients who, after completion of treatment, have a reasonable chance of recovery and thus return to their professional life – as if it were more important to ensure the income of those who are able to recover than those who are not. And in this case, will someone – Nav – consider who there is hope for, and who there is no hope for? Quite apart from the fact that such sorting itself would be a monstrous thing, it is also hopeless to consider which serious diagnosis could qualify for extended sick pay and which does not. Should, for example: a cancer is ranked in front of a life-threatening depression? During the hearing, the Cancer Association informed that there are an estimated 50,000 people per year who end up in the 52-week sick pay period. There is now this Advancement Party that will discriminate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e294	Being seriously ill over a longer period is probably one of the most difficult people in our society can experience. One thing is the disease itself, which will be frightening enough for most people, but it should be completely dependent on others – on health professionals in the practical and medical community, and on financial support schemes, because you cannot work for a period of time – will, of course, be a new and very challenging situation for many. That is why I am pleased that we have a capable, publicly paid healthcare system that, at least in most contexts, provides good and professional help in time. I am also pleased that we have income insurance schemes that are good, which avoid worrying about economic ruin for themselves and the family, as well as all the other concerns that have been raised during a period of illness. The right does not share all of Gullvåg's recent assessments, but the right wants us to continue to have good, predictable and secure income protection schemes for those who are ill. There is no disagreement in this room either, I think. The sick pay scheme, the redundancy scheme and the disability schemes form the basis for our welfare society. I am also pleased that those who get sick have an extra protection against dismissal during the period they receive sick pay. I therefore understand the background to the promotion of this proposal. There are many, perhaps especially cancer, who, despite illness beyond one year, may come back to work, and getting their income reduced will always be difficult. But I would remind you, as has also been mentioned by Gullvåg, that we may have the world's best health pay scheme. Everything has its price, and everything has its limit. We need not only good arrangements, but also sustainable arrangements, and for schemes to be sustainable, it must pay off to work. Even if 100 pst. the degree of compensation can be a reasonable solution over a certain period of time, it cannot last forever. I would assume that the vast majority of those who have been diagnosed for over a year will consider them to be suffering from a serious illness. I can therefore see nothing but that the scheme, as proposed, will be very difficult to define and administer. The proposal could therefore, in practice, significantly extend the sick pay scheme. I would like to remind you that the arrangements for redundancy payments, and in the worst cases disability benefits, also provide reasonable income protection in the event that the disease lasts beyond a full year. The right is not alien to the fact that a time-accounting scheme, with a more flexible calculation of the sick pay period, could have been reasonable. But such a system, as the Department writes, will be very difficult to manage. It seems likely to us. Therefore, the right will not be able to support a conversion as proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e309	It was interesting to hear the case rapporteur. It is rare to be deceived by a case rapporteur from Stortinget's pulpit in that way. It would be thought that the Progress Party went in to remove the sick pay scheme, but the Progress Party is actually proposing to improve and further develop the health pay system for the most seriously ill! That's what this case is about. I record that it is said from the interlocutor – including from the case rapporteur – that LO and NHO have been listened to in relation to the IA work with regard to its potential consequences. In this case, the party of progress has listened to the cancers. We have had more dialogue with the people who are being pushed out of work, who because of the public health system are not being completed within 52 weeks. When we see research done by both Fafo, Telemarksforschung and the University of Westfold, which states that one in four is struggling financially because of this, and many of them are also falling into dissatisfaction, the Progress Party takes those people and that research seriously. That is why we want to improve the health pay system for those who are most seriously ill. I have to say that I'm being listed when it's claimed from this pulpit that you're pushing cancer patients in front of you. Here we have had a close dialogue with the Cancer Association. Is it to understand, then, that the Cancer Association is pushing its members in front of it – in a game? I can never imagine that. I think you've addressed this on honest and honest premises, because you see that it's a problem, and that it's a challenge in society. We record, as I said, that many cancers are not treated within 52 weeks. We have seen a lot of headlines in the media that you wait a long time to get the treatment you need, and that you don't get enough time for rehabilitation. Many would have liked them to have gained a little more economic security, a little more tranquillity, to carry out treatment and rehabilitation with a view to either returning to work in full or in part. This is a good starting point for the Advancement Party. In the case of a time account, I record that many people are trying a little on the job. And then you find out, because of the damage or relapse of the disease, that this isn't going so well, you might have to stop. But then you haven't earned any new rights to get sick pay. So it's also going to be a brake pad to try it out again in the workplace. I'm told something when you get the reason that this can't be done, that it becomes bureaucratic and hard to manage. No, the problem is that we don't have an ICT system in Nav that can handle it. But it is not that the Nav ICT system is going to set the agenda for which policies can be pursued in this country? It is we in this Chamber who are going to take care of the policy to be pursued in this country, and then we are going to make sure that our operational well-being service has the ICT system that is required and that is needed for policy to be implemented. Pushing it in front of me almost makes me uncomfortable. The Progress Party is fully aware of the consequences of such a proposal. But I must finally say that I am stunned – and it is interesting to register – that all other parties, including both the SV and the Workers' Party, write in their note: ‘However, the majority believe that the benefits in the work clearance system also provide good compensation for lost income and further indicate that the NHO considers it to be, quote: ‘... a problem that many people get sick for one year because they come out better financially than going over to other schemes that might be more appropriate.’» Is it so to understand that the majority really believes that a cancer patient who has not been treated should be forced into other schemes? I demand an answer: yes or no. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e336	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e339	The starting point for today’s proposal is some of the most desperate moments in people’s lives – you’re sick and perhaps also despair of an economic situation, because you’re going down in income, because you’ve spent your sick pay period. So far, SV agrees with the proposers that this is probably difficult for very many people. The problems with the proposals of the Progress Party are many. One is that they actually cut sick pay in the budgets, but greatly expand the scheme with individual proposals. The two things are not at all related. The second is the issue of how to define this scheme. When the Progress Party says they want to give this to the most serious sick, it's actually not true. What they want is a system that will work for those who can get better. I see that the Left also promotes a proposal on those who can come back to professional activity and a normal life. But I think it's just as hard to get little money if you don't have that prospect, if you don't know how it works, if the health care system can't say that you're going to get better just being treated a little bit more. I guess it's just as hard to go into income if you're actually still living in an uncertainty. What should this be? There's been a discussion of psychiatry. I know many people who have been very seriously mentally ill for many years and who have become healthy. But unfortunately, many of those I know who are mentally ill have not survived their disease – not because the medical, physical side of it has resulted in death, but because the disease has led to tragic consequences for them. How should such an assessment be made in relation to a sickness benefit system? I am unable with my best will to understand how this delimitation is to be done. I have been in Stortinget for quite a long time, and this proposal has been in various forms under different governments, even under the last Bondevik government. We were up in the same place then. I felt that they were also concerned about seeing if they could find any solutions to this that didn't beat terribly unfairly for different patient groups, and you haven't made it clear. That's why I'm, like more people here, among other things. Sylvi Graham, concerned that we have a system of income protection at different stages of a disease. That system is currently going down in performance, if you've been sick over time. That it's a problem for many, I'm sure. But I can't understand that it's going to be easier for those who know that they might get better than for those who might know that they never do. Then there is also a proposal to have a time account. Well, that's the proposal I think you have to look further at when you get an ICT system in place in Nav that can handle this. Because there are some aspects of the proposal that I think are quite reasonable. But there are also a number of demarcations that need to be clarified, so that no mechanisms are put in place to discriminate against people. I do not feel that the Cancer Association is pushing patients in front of me. But I experience that when I discuss this with the Cancer Association, they see much more clearly than the Progress Party the dilemmas with a delineation in this system. The second is the dilemmas we have in this Chamber when it comes to the economic impact of the proposals we adopt. This is bad and hard to talk about when it comes to sick people. There are many people who need better benefits than they do today. There are many who have become ill, who come into difficult economic situations. In that case, I believe that the money we are going to spend in such a field must be spent on those who are in financial difficulties – not extending general arrangements on such a broad but unfair basis, as this proposal represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e360	I would like to make a few comments on the proposal of the Advance Party to extend the disease reporting period for persons with severe diagnosis. Let me start by saying that we have a very good sick pay scheme in Norway. We're going to be proud of it, because it's a system that gives security to the sick. At the same time, like several of those who have spoken earlier in the matter, I have sympathy and understanding for the initiative and commitment of the Cancer Association in this matter. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, who I believe has made a very good diagnosis of the political working methods and policies of the Progress Party. The representative, Andersen, has a very good point when she mentions that here the proposals of the Progress Party do not reach the most seriously ill. Robert Eriksson said he wants an improvement «for those who are most seriously ill». No, it's for those who have the prospect of coming back. For those who do not have the prospect of getting well or returning to work, this scheme does not apply. The party promoting this proposal will present major demarcation problems with regard to the diagnosis to be introduced into such a system. The Progress Party shall submit a proposal which could lead to persistent discrimination between persons who have prospects for improvement and those who do not. The Progress Party presents a proposal that both the NHO and the LO – in a letter to the Committee – have accepted. With regard to the boundaries of the different welfare systems, there will always be difficult demarcations. These can always be solved by extending the scheme. But it is not that the proposals of the Progress Party will solve this problem – it will just move the problem to new groups. I register Left's proposal with some wonder. But I'm glad that the government parties get support from both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party to call about a diagnosis-neutral health pay scheme. Then I register that the representative Graham has obviously gone on a course to talk nicely about the Progress Party. But I perceive that the Right, based on the content of the statements by the representative Graham – and the Right during the vote – is at least as critical of the proposals of the Progress Party as those of the government parties are.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e388	The Christian People’s Party understands that patients who have suffered a serious illness may face financial challenges when the period of sickness is over. These people are in a difficult situation, and it is up to us, as politicians, to make arrangements that can contribute to fair and good solutions for them. There are good arguments to change the legislation to make it better. Nevertheless, we find it challenging to give the right to only one group. What about those who cannot go back to work – we have heard several articles referring to different disease groups. After 12 months, they're going to be on redundancy pay, which is 67 pst. of their original salary. This proposal, which is now on the table, will result in considerable differences – according to which serious diagnosis has been made. For the Christian People's Party, it is central that we always have the individual in focus when our policies are to be pursued. We politicians are responsible for providing people with adequate help in vulnerable situations. The proposal presented here by the Progress Party will not necessarily ensure good arrangements for the individual patient, but could create large differences between individuals depending on the severity of the diagnosis. The determination of the severity of the diagnosis to be included and which should not be covered may lead to a high degree of discretion — thus giving rise to very unfair and unfair outcomes. This, in turn, may result in a patient with a serious diagnosis being granted extended sick pay, while another patient with another serious diagnosis will not be granted this because the person who is going to decide this is weighing different factors. It believes the Christian People's Party is very unfortunate, because serious sick patients who are not granted can get an unnecessary burden. It is also worth mentioning that the sick pay system we have in Norway today, compared with other countries, is very good. Should the proposal not be based on judgement, but on a list of diseases to be covered, it is unlikely to be complementary. This may result in a patient with a serious illness not being granted an extended sick pay period, while another will receive it — something that will be very unfair and unfair. In addition, there will in many cases be different gradings within each diagnosis depending on how serious it actually is, which would make it difficult to determine which cases should – and should not – be included. It may discriminate between different patient groups. The proposers do not want a general extension of access to sick pay, but a limited access to extending the sick pay period by 14 weeks when it is clear that treatment has not been completed, and that completed treatment will provide the patient with better opportunities to recover — and thus will be able to return to their work and normal life. The possibility of the seriously ill patient returning to his or her working life will in some cases be very difficult to predict. The scheme could then be a kind of false guarantee – which would be unreasonable to give to a seriously ill patient. The central thing is that serious sick people should not wait for the necessary treatment. They must be secured with the treatment they need when they need it. The Christian People's Party will also note that the Progress Party's proposal for the introduction of a time-accounting scheme – which has also been mentioned in the past – where the sick pay period will be proportional to the grading of the sick pay will most likely be very difficult to administer. We have heard several representatives comment on an increasing bureaucracy, which I am getting to vote badly with the arguments we usually hear when it comes to limiting bureaucracy. The point is that the scheme proposed here is difficult to implement in practice. For whatever scheme you choose, whether it's discretionary or it's due to an exact listing, it can never be a satisfactory system that guarantees that it will capture the patients who really need it. The risk of discrimination is high, which is very unfortunate. The Christian People's Party will always strive for good arrangements for the individual in vulnerable situations, but then it is important that the arrangements strive to be fair and fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e405	The Left believes, unlike most others here, that the Progress Party has promoted a good and important representative proposal where the starting point is to facilitate that cancer patients in particular can obtain a slightly greater flexibility in the health pay system, so that they can actually either return to work fairly quickly, without going about work clearance payments, or have a greater degree of flexibility during the process of processing through a time-accounting system. In short, a proposal in line with the Left's slogan on putting people first. There are several things left over in the setting of this case. For example, one thing is: that the majority writes that the proposal for a representative is in the opposite direction to the intentions of the IA Agreement. This is with respect to notifying a strange interpretation. The whole proposal is exactly the opposite, namely to get the sick back as quickly as possible without having to go about through other schemes and a lot of bureaucracy. The second left is that the majority refers to the NHO formulation that it is ‘a problem that many people get sick for one year because they come out better financially than going over to other schemes that might be more appropriate’, as part of the rejection of the proposal. It makes a lot of sense in what the NHO writes, but when the Left suggested something of the same in its alternative state budget for 2012, there were no limits to how unsocial and right-wing the proposal was. The third left, and as the members of the Progress Party also write in their comments, is the suspicion on the part of the Council of State and the majority. Unfortunately, we all know one or more people who have been affected by cancer. Common to those I know, and who I thought also applied to most others, is that cancer patients are busy with one thing: get healthy and get back to work as quickly as possible. But then we know that cancer treatment often takes time, and there may be too much time between, for example. operation and other treatments, such as cell poison and radiation. The question then is whether it makes sense for the patient to go ill during the period between surgery and treatment, even if he is actually completely functionally healthy, or if he should work while waiting. Today's system stimulates illness all the time, as opposed to what the majority writes. With a time-accounting system, we could have used the working capacity to the maximum. The left will therefore vote in favour of minority motion No. 2 to determine the timing of sick pay for cancer patients. I am curious to note that no party other than the Advance Party will even investigate this. In the case of minority proposals No. 1) on the right to extend the sickness benefit scheme up to 14 days for persons with severe diagnosis but who are obviously able to return to work after the end of treatment, the Left also has the right to do so. When the Left does not immediately vote for it, it is because we believe that this needs to be investigated a little more; what diseases, in addition to cancer, what the total costs will be in both the short and long term – yes, there may even be socio-economic gains – and how to ensure equal treatment of the same pathologies, etc. The left therefore proposes that the government also investigate this issue and submit the case during 2012. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e423	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e426	The case concerns three proposals for changes to the sickness pay scheme. It is proposed to extend the sick pay period by 14 weeks for patients with cancer and other serious diagnoses when it is clear that the treatment has not been completed and that such completed treatment will provide the patient with better opportunities to recover and return to work. Furthermore, it is proposed to introduce a time-accounting scheme for cancer patients where the duration of sick pay depends on the health care rate. Finally, it is proposed to introduce derogations from the requirement to be full-time for 26 weeks in order to earn new entitlement to sickness benefits. The latter shall apply to cancer patients and patients with some other serious diagnosis requiring longer treatment than 52 weeks. I refer to my reply letter of 3 February 2012, which states that I do not agree with these three proposals for changes to a very good health pay scheme. I understand that serious sick and also cancer are in a very difficult situation – also economically. There will always be a difficult transition from sick pay to other and lower benefits from social security. However, this transition will be equally demanding for all those who, despite good and appropriate treatment and high self-incentives, are not fully employed after one year. I cannot therefore see that it is reasonable to give a significantly better health insurance to people who have an opportunity to return to work than to those who become permanently ill and have to live on a social security benefit for the rest of their lives. The proposals will also involve several difficult judgement decisions; a time-accounting scheme will be difficult to manage. Many have shorter periods of sick leave with different degrees or different degrees of sickness within a continuous period. It would be very difficult to calculate the maximum period of sickness benefit. It will also be difficult to keep track of the length of the individual’s remaining sick pay period for both the establishment and for the individual subject. Where a time-accounting scheme applies only to serious diseases, complexity increases. I believe that it is not difficult here to suggest that any diagnosis should qualify for a better performance than any other diagnosis. I don't think that's fair. The last proposal provides for the exemption from the requirement of full-time work for a certain period of time in order to obtain a new entitlement to sickness benefits. In practice, this provides an almost unlimited entitlement to sickness benefits for persons who have only a short-term working relationship between two longer periods of illness. I also believe that if a person wants to relax on the legislation, it must then apply to everyone. Sickness benefits provide full coverage of lost income up to 6 G for up to one year, while redundancy benefits and new disability benefits cover two thirds of the loss of income. The Norwegian sickness benefit scheme must be said to be very good, including in an international context. I cannot support the proposals that will provide a more favourable health insurance scheme for cancer patients and other seriously ill people. I note that the majority of the Committee – all but the members of the Progress Party – share my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e446	When I hear that the Council of State in its statement says that the Time Account Scheme is difficult to manage, it might be interesting to get an answer as to whether she thinks the idea itself is good, that it may be reasonable to review the sick pay system and make changes, so that people with serious diagnosis are given a greater chance of entering the workplace than to stay on a bare ground – and, worst of all, to get out of work and on disability. Governments are talking about the possibility of more bureaucracy due to the legislation, that it is difficult to manage. Will the Council of State carry out a necessary review of the legislation to ensure that it isbureaucratic and organised, and ensure that an ICT system is put in place, so that it is able to maintain good facilities in this area – or is it the ICT system to determine which welfare systems we should have in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e453	We now have a new bet on graduated search messages. Graded search messages show up for the time being — with the numbers you have — to be very successful. Minor research projects indicate that classified search reports also mean that more — after a shorter period or a year — return to work and stay there. But, of course, if you design classified health care messages in the way this is referred to – or in other possible ways – it also has a greater need for different schemes and labour-intensive operations at Nav. All sickness pay schemes need to be assessed on this basis. We need resources to follow up on the individual. We must always – no matter how much money you put into the system – assess this. As far as the ICT system is concerned, we now have a big investment. I have always been clear that this will take some time, but it is a big bet. When this is in place, there might be a lot of things to consider. But I believe that you should first look at the effect of grading, before considering new schemes around classified health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e462	Despite the claims made by the representative Pollestad on the content of the intervention by the Right-wing Party, the Right-wing Group understands the proposal made by the Progress Party. As I said, we have a health care system that in most of the contexts provides good and professional help in time – unfortunately not always. There are 280 000 people in health queues, with both cancer diagnosis and other serious diagnosis. Let's look at cancer. Recently, the press has not least told us about people who wait for weeks and months for radiation treatment and other treatments. This load is the 52 weeks of the sickness benefit scheme for the person concerned – it is a heavy burden on the person concerned. Does the Council agree that these treatment queues are a burden for both patients and the health insurance scheme? What can the Council of State do about this to its colleague, the Minister for Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e471	Without wanting to go into a colleague's area, I just want to say that no matter what kind of health care we have, there will be a lot of people who will have to wait for health care. A health system that is such that, in the interests of a health pay scheme and its time perspective, health care should be provided immediately is likely to be very uneconomical. The point in this context is that we are discussing how long the sick pay scheme should be. Even if you had never had such an effective health care system, you would have come to a time when for some people it might be unclear whether they would be healthy within a year. I note that we agree that we should have the system we have today, a system where you go over to work clearance. That's my answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e478	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e483	Let it be said that we have a very good health care system in Norway. But unfortunately there is a part that because of illness/diagnosis quickly consumes the 100 pst. when she goes beyond one year. Work clearance money is the next one. This reduces income by more than 30 pst. For these, one often knows in advance that treatment will take time — often far beyond one year. It is against this background that the Progress Party would like to find that these patients are being subjected to an additional burden on the economic level, which in turn leads to concerns, and, in the worst case, to a mental diagnosis – at the top of an already heavy and difficult main diagnosis. This, in turn, leads to their being ill-treated with the background of mental and not primary diagnosis, a disease for which perhaps one has already been treated – one that has become healthy. Had a security for full medical coverage in a slightly longer perspective, one might have avoided this. I'll tell you a little bit about Hilde. She is 37 years old and a single mother for two children, aged 8 and 10. Hilde is proud to do well alone. She owns a rowhouse and has a good job is in full employment. This was Hilde's status at the beginning of 2009. Today it's completely different. Hilde was diagnosed with cancer in August 2009. The doctors knew that there was a long fight ahead of her, focusing on getting well. Hilde was registered sick after the first treatment. Then she entered a system where she was given up to everyone who would give her treatment. This often led to things being delayed – there were waiting and postponements from the hospital. Suddenly one year had passed, and the economy was completely changed for Hilde. And she had only come halfway into treatment. When one calculates it, releases and other system changes over five months – five months that really shouldn't burden Hilde's sick pay period, I think. But this is today's system. So the fact that the public isn't being punished for procrastination is going to go against those who have already been punished enough with their disease, and who should have used all their powers on him – nothing at all. In this case, it turns out that this does not happen. After a long period of treatment and an equally long period of concern, Hilde recovers from her cancer, but she was already suffering from a mental illness for which she had much longer time on treatment. It went so far that Hilde had to sell the wheelhouse – she couldn't afford to sit with it – and move home to her parents with her two children. Today, Hilde has begun to think so little about getting into place in the workplace. She still lives with her parents – not a simple and desirable situation, but the best for her so far. And I think, could we have avoided such situations, could we, as a society, be able to see the individual and their challenges when it comes to diseases, and adjust us so that one had taken care of Hilde financially, so that she hadn't come into such a situation? This proposal may help to contribute to a discussion that will also focus on the fact that one should not put this burden on the sick person when it is the public that is responsible for the day of sickness. Then one might have got a certain justice up to it all. And then finally, the column is rising here in the country, which one should do something about. Had it not been for a large campaign, support from relatives, friends and former colleagues at work, Hilde would have been part of the impasse today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e498	It is a burden to get sick, and the burden increases with the severity of the disease and its duration. That's why we've put in place the world's most shy sick pay system, which ensures all those who get sick, pay under sickness for an entire year. In the international context, there is no health pay scheme at any point that can be measured by this. When I have registered over time the ability of the Progress Party to make proposals, I have recorded that there is no link between the proposals they are promoting and the budgetary proposals that the same party is promoting. It is not the case that the Progress Party has made proposals to increase the cost of the sickness pay scheme or to extend the financial impact of the sickness pay scheme. They have proposed the opposite. During the last budgetary procedure, they proposed a cut of 2 billion. kr in the sick pay scheme – that is to say the opposite – because then a few weeks later to propose the extension that we are dealing with today. This is – with respect to reporting – a form of double communication that serves no purpose other than to try to reap short-term political gains. The party of progress is not committed to achieving anything, to achieving solutions for the groups they say they are fighting for. Had they been, they would not have promoted this kind of proposal, but rather tried to find other ways of compensating for the benefits of those who are seriously ill. The Chairman of the Committee, Robert Eriksson, asks whether we have not spoken to the Cancer Association and registered their proposal. Of course we have, but we've also talked to other groups. I am surprised that Robert Eriksson does not refer to mental health or other patient associations when he promotes such a proposal, because what they are actually promoting is a proposal for a general extension of the health pay system. That's the consequences of what they're proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e507	It is claimed from this pulpit by both the representative Andersen and the representative Gullvåg that the Progress Party is cutting sick pay in its budgets. Then my question is back: how much do we cut? We have exactly the same sick pay scheme as all the others. When the balancing proposition showed that we could cut what we put in as an estimate of the ordinary state budget the year before, does it mean that – according to the rhetoric of Gullvåg – the government has cut the sick pay scheme in the course of the year? No, it has become less sick! Is it not good that fewer people have been sick and more have been in the workplace? It has to be very positive. However, it is possible that the representative of Gullvåg can, in view of the estimates and the budgetary system at Stortinget, contact the Budget Secretariat and get a quick training on how the budget system at Stortinget works. The representative from SV says it's not true that we want to help those who are seriously ill. It is quite strange that other political parties know better than the Progress Party who we really want to help. I think that's kind of weird. When it comes to demarcations, we also see that there are many demarcations and that there may be difficult demarcations. That's why we also want to have time accounts figured out, look at it, bring up all of these difficult things and find out if it's possible to do something that's better for the patient, better for the individual. But instead, there are politicians in this Chamber – the majority – who promote all the constraints. I hope the voters out there notice that. I hope the voters want – after the 2013 elections – to have politicians who see solutions and are interested in doing their everyday life better, not looking back and saying that we see only limitations, and therefore we don't even want to figure out how to achieve a better system. It is – at my discretion – politicians who are on dismissal. They should have found other jobs than being politicians if they can't focus on solutions. And then finally, I just want to remind you of what's in the NTB news today, that cancer samples can wait two months before being analyzed. In other words, two months of a person’s search report has been used up before they even get their samples analysed. It says something about how we need to look at how we can help that group to get more people to work, rather than being pushed out of the labour market and getting on the wrong foot. Finally, I would just like to say – for the sake of order – that the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e521	I am very surprised that the Progress Party does not at all affect the difficult problems of demarcation in this matter. One of the last arguments Robert Eriksson used now is how you think about spending money. It is serious that cancer samples remain lying down. It is serious when serious sick patients, whether they have cancer or other diagnoses, have to wait too long for treatment. But is it not then reasonable to spend more of the money on treatment instead of expanding a health pay scheme, where in this country at least we have other arrangements to secure people when they leave this scheme? They go down in income – yes. I know that's a problem for many. But that's also how it's a problem for everyone who's out of sick pay, regardless of whether you have the prospect of getting well or not. I think it's at least as hard to go into income if you don't know if you're getting well at all. It's really hard. And why should you give priority to those who have the opportunity to get healthy and get into work? It's a priority among disadvantaged people that I find it difficult to follow straight out. Then there's someone who argues that it's the psychological pressures associated with the economy that make this go wrong. Yeah, I think that might actually be right in some cases. But how in the world is that delineation to be made with regard to who is able to bear that burden, and who is not able to bear it, and what are the diagnosiss? Then we're left with expanding the scheme in general for everyone. At least then we have an economic problem. Then at least SV needs to say that there are some other schemes for disadvantaged people, health follow-up and follow-up of people who need more qualification to get back to work – I could also mention housing and dental treatment a lot – on which I think it would be more appropriate to spend this money. I mean, it would have been a lot more right to do it like that, because I'm absolutely sure the sum of it would have been much better. No one thinks people should go and wait for a treatment that can work. One principle that we may have to discuss is that if public authorities are responsible for keeping things in order, if they are to deal with things, it is a principle that I think politicians should discuss more closely how the relationship between citizens and public authorities should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e532	It is disappointing to hear how a proposal intended to solve something that is a problem for the seriously ill is received by most parties in this room. It's true that we have one of the world's best sick pay schemes. The Committee has now also been in the Netherlands and has heard that there are the two years of sick leave. Maybe there would be something to think about. Even if they don't have 100 pst. full coverage over the two years, it provides a much greater flexibility. For those who go beyond one year of sick pay, it's not just about the money, even if it's important, but it's also about treading over a new threshold – they're pulling out of work. They no longer have a job. It's very serious. It also means that they lose their belonging to the labour market and have to start over. It's true that there are some other groups than the cancer victims who need much longer than a year. We were in the West talking to someone who had lost sight. He spent a year cleaning up his situation, to become aware of how he was going to cope with his everyday life. He is now back in full employment thanks to a willing employer. But as he said, I'd need more than a year's sick pay. What we might have to debate here today is how we can turn our good health pay system into catching up with those who need more time to avoid them slipping out of work. This does not apply to those who will never come back to work. They will move on to redundancy payments, possibly disability benefits, as a result. But for those who still have a great hope of returning to work, better arrangements should be ensured. That is what we should perhaps use this proposal for: those who did not agree with the Progress Party and who saw weaknesses in the proposal – why do they not come up with a better proposal, some ideas, instead of sagging it down and suspecting the Advance Party? I also have to say that you should look at the scheme where one sick day is one sick day, and two sick days are two sick days, three sick days a week are three sick days – not a whole week. There is a difference between being away from work for two to three days a week and being away all week. It would also provide greater flexibility, and it would only be a fair arrangement to get coverage for the days you have absence. We have an important goal of keeping people in the labour market, keeping them connected to the labour market even while you are ill. Then I think that the other parties get to sit down and maybe make some better suggestions if they think that this proposal was not so very good – look at the weaknesses, take it with them and come up with something better. This isn't necessarily about money, it's about keeping people in work and getting people healthy. Then you have to help as best you can.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e547	The representative of Gullvåg said earlier in the debate that it is a burden to get sick. I want to add that it is actually a much greater burden not to get well. And that's actually the boundary we're discussing here today: who are we going to expand the health pay system for? Had this proposal been about a general extension of the sick pay scheme, this would have been a more fair debate, easier to deal with. Now we're going to sort people out whether they're going to be healthy or not, and only those who come back to the 'normal' life, the healthy life, are going to have 100 pst. compensation. If you don't have the prospect, you're going to be allowed to go down to two thirds. It's a good arrangement. It's a safe arrangement. It's not bar ground. It's actually a good compensation to go down to two-thirds income. The biggest challenge we have in this debate is: Who are the seriously ill? How are we going to set the limits? Who will assess whether someone comes back to work? Who are those who come back to work? That's the piece we're going to tackle. There are several people who should be able to get back to work; there are several people who will have the opportunity. Medical development is progressing, more people are getting better. There are several people coming back, but we're not sure that we're going to demand that they come back to a "normal" life. For what in all days is a normal life? It's not safe to be A4 with all the limbs left. It can be quite normal to lack an arm or a foot or not walk, and you can have a full everyday life. However, it is not certain that the medical assessment was initially that they had the same ‘silk feed’ as everyone else. So it's the demarcations that cause problems with this proposal. Then we'll evaluate how long the health pay system will last, or how we're going to do it with rehabilitation – a faster, stronger rehabilitation, more rehabilitation, better follow-up, closer follow-up. But we can't discuss who's sickest, because it might be that when it comes to some of these limits, it's maybe the freshest that gets the strongest priority. It's a challenge, but it doesn't mean they don't also think it's a burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e568	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e582	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e596	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e602	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e612	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a change in the Law on Population Security, which provides patients with severe diagnosis and an opportunity to return to professional activity or to a normal life if necessary treatment is completed, entitlement to an extended sick pay period of up to 14 weeks.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e636	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a system of time accounts for sick pay for cancer patients in line with the Cancer Association’s opinion in autumn 2011 to the State Budget for 2012 and to refer the matter to the Storting during 2012.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e653	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a system to provide patients with severe diagnosis and a return to professional activity or normal life if necessary treatment is completed, for an extended sick pay period of up to 14 weeks. The majority asks the government to present a case to the Stortinget during 2012.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced their support for the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e689	Case No. 3–5 are the second time legal proceedings. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-08.ana.ud284e703	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
