ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e26	The representatives Jan Tore Sanner and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Jon Georg Dale, has taken their seats. The Workers' Group has requested that the granted leave of the representative Freddy de Ruiter be extended until 22 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Line Vennesland, will continue to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e57	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen from 8 February onwards and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Troms, Bjørn Inge Mo, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under Bendiks H. Arnesen's leave, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined without delay and the third alternate, Viggo Fossum, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e82	Viggo Fossum is present and will take the seat. The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e87	Today, I am delighted to present a Document 8 proposal by the depositors Hans Olav Syversen, Knut Arild Hareide, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself for a plan to secure the right to life support at the end of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e92	The representative, Inbjørg Vosskensen, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e95	I am pleased to be able to submit a proposal from Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Torkil Åmland and myself to legislate for the protection of freedom of speech and anonymity on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e100	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e103	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Torkil Åmland and myself to take up Swedish surveillance of Norwegian citizens under the FRA Act with Swedish authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e109	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e121	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, Trond Giske and Erik Solheim will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e128	To the Minister of Local Affairs: In the last few days we have been able to read and read that our dear Minister of Local Affairs has been on a study trip in Denmark. It is unlikely that the Progress Party would like to welcome red-green government councils back to Norway, but we feel that we can do this time because this study trip seems to have been very successful. It also seemed that the municipal councils have had a large and significant professional benefit from this trip. In many ways it seemed to have gone up a light for the municipal minister, and that is, of course, positive. In the evening post on Monday we could read the following: ‘Navarsete takes a tough settlement with the Norwegian welfare state. Liv Signe Navarsete admits that the government’s policy does not meet with the older wave.’ [[Sp]] This reminds me a little bit more of things that the Progress Party has said, but for which we have been criticized, because we are then so negative and pessimistic. But this is positive when it comes from the government itself. What the Council of State points to is that one needs to invest more in prevention and rehabilitation, so that older people can take care of themselves longer, and that one also needs to invest in facilitating existing housing, so that one can stay there longer. These are new notes from the Center Party. The last time we dealt with the state budget in November-December, the Progress Party proposes 300 million. kr more for rehabilitation and 50 mill. kr more to a back-up scheme to achieve living standards in existing dwellings. We were then downhearted, among others. by the Centre Party, its votes. So my question is, when can this materialize? And when do the money come on the table? Does the council get the rest of the government on this, or is this some kind of new double communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e148	First of all, these are not new tones from this Council of State and the Central Party. Since I joined the county in 1995, and joined the group of Anni Felde, who then took part in the health and social selection in Sogn and Fjordne County, I have been busy with and influenced by her inexorable zeal for rehabilitation, rehabilitation and preventive work. She was later head of health and care in the municipality of Gloppen, and the municipality of Gloppen is a municipality that has survived for many years – long before the Progress Party began to talk about it. It has also been a centralized municipality, and it has worked through acid. Today, several municipalities are trying to follow this way of thinking; more prevention, rehabilitation in their own homes, older people in hospitals or in rehabilitation institutions with the aim of returning to their own homes and still living a well-functioning life as a self-employed individual. I think we need to change the attitude of the older generation as a whole, because there are many different needs of older people. Sjukeheimsplatz should be there as a security, but it must be the last step on a care ladder where we see the whole human being – it can be social together for those who are lonely, meeting places, relatives' salaries, care pay for the family members who want to contribute. Someone needs a training offer and rehabilitation, which is an important matter in the context we are now discussing, and someone needs to facilitate both with help and in their own home. That's why the government, and I, have put in place support for those who want to rebuild their home to be able to live longer in their own homes. I'm busy building buildings that are universally designed. It knows the Progress Party has been a battle theme, but I'm not always sure if the Progress Party has supported us or the forces in the construction industry that thought this was plunder and heft.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e157	Now it was said by the municipal minister that these are not new thoughts. It's a little weird, because we have a government that's been working for over six years. What you see around the municipality of Norway is that the rehabilitating supply and incentive is being built down and not built up. Obviously, one, if one wants to bet more on rehabilitation, has to bring fresh money. Local government needs to get money for this, it needs to be earmarked, and one needs to build it up. Then I expect that next time the Progress Party will come forward with proposals on this, the Senter Party will support its people in the Stortinget. At least I hope so. Now, the situation is such that there are figures that indicate that 3,000 elderly people are waiting for a place where the sick. In that queue there are many sufferings, and there are many problems. My question to the municipal minister is: what will she say to those who are in line today, waiting for a sick place? Can they get this place? When do we get rid of the sick home dumps?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e164	To them I would say that we have a minister of health and care and a government that every day, together with the municipalities, ensures that there are more places in the hospitals. This will also be the case in the future, even if we have a call for more prevention, so that more people can postpone the time of the need for a health home by providing more active care and less passive care. There is a great deal to be done to get in early contact with the individual with regard to follow-up and organisation. I don't think we just have to think about welfare states and care in white coats; we need to have a welfare society with a variety of offers. Then even those in need of a health care facility will get it faster. This government follows up the Health Plan 2015, and we follow it up with a budget. All the latest budgetary studies show that the local economy is significantly strengthened under this government. Yes, speak for yourself – significant numbers, I have them here. This means that the municipalities also have room to build up sick homes. We shall also ensure that this is done in the forthcoming budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e171	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e174	I think it is very nice that the Council of State has been in Fredericia and received further inspiration. The policy of the Progress Party is exactly the Fredericia model, so we actually appreciate the initiative and, not least, the invitation to an elderhood. It is important to say that it is not as the Council of State says in the evening post, that this is done in order to save sick homes, but a result may be that you need fewer sick homes in the long term. This is a philosophy that older people will be allowed to be present longer in their own lives. The Council of State itself brings forward one of several measures in the evening post, namely a statutory right to return home visits at the age of 75. It is an important prerequisite in Denmark to make this work. My question will then be: Is this just a double communication, or will the Council of State contribute to the adoption of proposals to introduce this legal right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e183	The statutory right to return home visits at 75 years is also not a new idea for the Center Party. Four years ago, when we had our program work, it was actually one of the things we discussed. Then it was not agreed, because at that time we had not been able to rework the wholeness of such a system. Ergo told us that we could get back to it. It's one of the points that is clearly coming into the program of the Central Party. This means that when a person reaches the age of 75, a letter is given, not with the intention of having such a conversation, but with the provision of a conversation to facilitate old age in the best possible way. I mean, it's about getting in early, being able to come in with preventive measures. It may, as I said, be a range of measures to which the individual, based on his or her private circumstances, wants to receive assistance. I think it's a good idea. I also thought so when we discussed this four years ago. But as I said, that's probably what we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e190	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e193	I was very happy when I read the evening post and saw that the municipal minister had been in Denmark and got inspiration for a direction of the elderly care that the Right fully distributes. It will mean a total conversion of the way you think about it in relation to today. But based on the answers to the Council of State in today's Question Time, it seems that she believes that this is already the government's policy, and that it has not least been the Central Party's policy for a long time. It's not entirely in line with that opening to change the policy that was in the Evening Post on Monday, because this will require a whole new way of thinking and going in a different direction from what the government has done. For example, the opposition proposed legal rights for home visits, the government parties voted against. The opposition proposed a rehabilitating plan, with government parties voting against. We have proposed to strengthen the physiotherapy system, the government parties have voted against it. When will we see the government change its policy, in line with what was announced by the Minister of State on Monday?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e199	The government's policy has been very focused on raising the number of sick homes. We have experienced that we have had strong support for the entire Storting. There have been too few sick places, and it is still necessary to have pressure on it. At the same time, we are in the future, when we know that there are several older people, having to think about the way we think about: getting in early, thinking interdisciplinaryly, getting other groups into not only to be able to do everyday rehabilitation in the home, but also to be able to do rehabilitation, so that people can have the opportunity to live longer in their own lives, as they say in Fredericia – in their own home, we often say in the Senterpartiet. Those who listened heard me talk a lot about this in the election campaign. Maybe I was the only one – and the centre party the only party – who lifted this up in the various debates, while others are arguing about how many sick places one would build. I think I've been very clear about this, and it's a policy that I want to raise even more clearly in the future, because it's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e206	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e209	The Christian People's Party does not disagree that much more should be invested in both prevention and rehabilitation. There is, of course, some intention in the Cooperation Reform. However, both the senior case and the nurses’ association are concerned about the sickest elderly, which they believe are already down-priority in Norway. Does the Council of State think that the sickest elderly will also get better under such a model that we are now considering, if the result is that we are actually reducing the number of sick homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e214	There is nothing in what I – or someone else from the government – have said, which indicates that we should reduce the number of sick homes. On the contrary, I've been extremely clear that we're going to need more sick homes, whatever, in the future, because there are so many more older people – and many more of the older ones. If we agree to change the old-age policy along the lines that I am sketching, and that I have now been out talking about, it will mean that one can, as in Fredericia, postpone the time when a person needs a sick home place. This will mean that the sickest move faster and are safer to fit when they need it. So in this way – yes – I believe this will make the sickest sick. But no one has to fool himself into believing that through such a conversion, one will reduce the need for sick homes, because we are many more elderly. Therefore, we will also need to think both – and, not either – or. But this is a way of dealing with it and providing everyone with a better quality of life and a better supply in older days. I think we can be some of that that we want, across partition lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e219	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e222	The question goes to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. Telenor, where more than half of the shares are owned by the government, can now lose up to unimaginable 15 billion. kr on its India exposure on the mobile phone side. Most people will wonder how to get into such a situation. The evaluation will be important. Telenor's entrance to India was controversial and controversial. It has been obvious from the very beginning that although Telenor has not done anything wrong, the initial acquisition of the licences in India was preoccupied with a past that could become a problem for the company both commercially and ethically. That's exactly what happened. The problems lay on the ethical side, i.e. on the social responsibility side – which, after the ownership notification, is a central area in which the Council of State and the Department communicate with the companies. The Communication states that the ownership dialogue with the social responsibility companies is one of the main areas. Then the natural questions come from me: what knowledge has the Department had about the Telenor case in India over time, about what has emerged as a significant uncertainty and a significant risk in the way in which the initial acquisition of the licences was carried out? How has the Ministry, in the context of the social responsibility dialogue, communicated its views on this with the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e233	We have been very clear – not just to Telenor, but to all the companies in which we have ownership – that we expect a high level of social responsibility. We expect zero tolerance for corruption and grey areas in legislation, and we expect to work with the local authorities in a good way. In 2008, we even had some extra rounds about this with Telenor. If the representative remembers that, in spring 2008, there was a major media issue about child labour in Bangladesh, where a subcontractor to another supplier of the company in which Telenor is a partner used children in his business. So Telenor is a company where this with social responsibility has been on the agenda in many dialogue meetings. In the case of these licences granted in India, they were granted before Telenor purchased. How these licenses came into existence was not a topic in our dialogue until Telenor made his investment. We were very clear – from the department’s side – that this was Telenor’s business decision. They were the ones who had to assess whether to invest in India, which company to invest in, and at what price to invest. It was also the case that Telenor carried out a due diligence process to see if the company they bought into had the qualities and values to which the transaction added. I take it for granted that the assessment of public contracts, licences, contacts with authorities, etc. was part of that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e240	I perceive the Council of State in this way that as far as the creation of the original mobile licences is concerned, there has been no theme for the Council of State in the dialogue with Telenor. But it must have been clear to the Council of State that this was a big public debate – not at home, but in India. Attempts were made to bring legal proceedings, where it was just pointed out that the premise for the awards was wrong. I'm not saying that Telenor had some responsibility for it purely commercial, but ethically and socially responsible: doesn't the Council of State say that this could be a difficult subject in the long run? And as I see him, wasn't it taken up at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e245	Yes. Since this became a case in India, after these licences were granted, where, among other things, The then telecoms minister had to leave — accused of corruption — this has been a topic of our dialogue with Telenor. My colleague, Rigmor Aasrud, had a meeting with the current telecom minister in India yesterday. He says that Telenor has not done anything wrong in this matter. So if we base it on what the Indian authorities are now saying, it seems that Telenor has followed the expectations we have of not contributing to anything wrong with these licenses. But it is clear that there has been a dialogue, after it came up as a difficult matter in India, about how Telenor deals with this, about what exit scenarios could be expected – what dialogue we need with the Indian authorities to resolve this in a good way for Telenor, and to support the Indian authorities' fight against corruption in their own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e252	There are three follow-up questions – first Frank Bakke-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e255	It's like there's a lot of things here, but a lot of knowledge was public when Telenor went in. For the companies, there are restrictions on this with the stock exchange sensitivity and what they can communicate to the owners, but the owners have no limitations on the knowledge they can provide to companies in which they have shareholdings. The question here needs to be whether the state in the quarterly owner's meetings with these types of companies has provided them with the knowledge they have and whether they have signalled their view of the conflict that has in some way built up here. It must be a good forum to use the social responsibility that has been laid down in the communication of ownership, in, and to give signals on how Norwegian companies should act.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e265	Let me first say that I am very pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party now believe that we are going to have an active follow-up to our companies, that we are going to have a dialogue beyond what happens in the General Assembly, that we are going to have expectations for them, and that we are going to think something about their strategies, because it has been a little unclear in the last month whether that has been the case or not. Now we can at least establish that that's the case. This with the licences and the corruption discussion in India came up after the licences had been granted. It was not possible for us as the owner to go deep into this before Telenor bought the company that they did in India. But once this came up, of course, we were in close dialogue with Telenor to make sure that they have not been involved in anything that might be perceived as corruption-like, and that they are doing everything they can to ensure that they have good contact with the authorities of India, to clear up any ambiguities and to help preserve the large values invested for the Norwegian people, who own 54 pst. by this company.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e272	Torgeir Treldal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e275	The Progress Party is very concerned that we should follow the state companies in a good way. On a sceptical question we asked Giske in 2010, a question that concerned the matter between Telenor and Uninor in India, the Council of State replied that he would not interfere with the work of the board. This clarification is obviously not very topical when you look at what happened in the TV 2 case. Then they mixed up. The size covered in the 2011 spring session was the State ownership notice. Is this message just put in a drawer, or is the Council of State willing to use unconventional funds that violate entirely company law principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e282	We discuss a lot of things with our companies. One of the things we are discussing is the need to develop Norwegian jobs, Norwegian investments, Norwegian technology and Norwegian value creation. That means that we are for national ownership of important companies, also for TV 2. There has even been a unanimous growth, and it was right and important to communicate it to Telenor, when they still chose to sell it out of the country. Then we've also had a dialogue with Telenor if it was right to go into Asia. Telenor has built up to become a large international company. It's a strategy that the state has supported. We do not consider which investments, which companies and which countries, but India is an incredibly important country in Asia. It's a strong growing economy, it's the world's next largest country measured in the population, and it's a country with which we are now negotiating a free trade agreement to invest more. So there's nothing fundamentally wrong with us that Telenor goes into India and makes investments, but it's those who decide where and how.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e289	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e292	I also have to say that I am very pleased with the inter-political community about active ownership and the importance of showing social responsibility when we invest in businesses. I fully support that. I also notice that Telenor is a little up and down with regard to when you want active contributions from the responsible State Council. We are now in a week when active contributions are very welcome, I understand. So it must be nice for the Council of State to be informed – whether it is by SMS or not, I do not know. Petter Gottschalk, BI professor, says to NTB that he asks the Council of State to consider before going too deep into assistance to Telenor in this matter. I quote what he says: ‘We have so many examples that Norwegian enterprises abroad have adapted to local conditions, including corruption.’ You should "hold an arm's length", he says. How does the Council of State view that objection?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e306	We need zero tolerance for corruption. We're going to support the countries of the world that work hard to get rid of corruption in their own country. We're not going to step in and help Norwegian companies that have fallen into a state of debauchery because they've crossed the limit of what's legal and not legal. We have no reason to say that Telenor has done so in this case. Here we have to distinguish two things: we're not going to go into what Indian Supreme Court decides. It is a sovereign court, which decides independently of political influence — neither from India, hopefully, nor from Norway. However, when licences are to be renewed, it is a political process. So here it's going to be $ billion, of which it's going to be over $50. are the values of the community. At least it's incomprehensible to me what the Right Party and the Advance Party say, that we have to leave this to the Telenor regime. Here we as the owner, here we must as authority, stand up for the company. We would have done that for a company we don't own, too, to ensure Norwegian values and to ensure that they get a good and fair treatment in India. That is the way other authorities operate with the Norwegian authorities, where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e315	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e318	My question goes to the Minister of State. I will follow up on the track that the Progress Party had, on the State Council's educational study trip to Denmark. The council has said that this is not a new case, and that is quite right. I also remember the debate of the 1990s, a debate that went on this with home-based services, nursing homes versus nursing homes. I think we should nevertheless be very clear and give very clear signals to our sickest older people that this debate is not about building down badly needed nursing homes. Rather, it is to be able to give our sickest elderly a better offer. We have many examples of sick elderly people in hospital queues. So it's incredibly important that we are clear about the signals that are given to them. But in the evening post on Monday this week we could read that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs ‘will end Norwegian care for the elderly’. She wants more at home and fewer at the institution. She goes into attacks on the welfare state and says it has been ‘activating to many older people’, and her starting point is economic, namely that the welfare state of Norway does not have enough money in the future. The next phase of the cooperation reform must then be to take the Fredericia model in Denmark as an example. This includes, inter alia: more resources for prevention, rehabilitation and more staff. Is the Council of State conceding that the Interaction Reform does not contain enough money for municipalities or does it have sufficient strategies for recruiting skills staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e329	The answer to that can be very short: it's no. I look at the Interaction Reform as a step one in the further development of healthcare provision in this country. It is a further development of the welfare state; it is a decentralisation and a emphasis on prevention that we have not had before. There is a new way to think about where the individual gets closer to services — health services to a large extent, but also previous rehabilitation by receiving pre-treated patients and nursing, rehabilitation and further provision by the municipality. What I have called for in the evening post, I look at as step 2 of the Cooperation Reform, where one goes on to think about the sick home – a stronger health home, local medical centres, rehabilitation – to think that one can also do it in one's own home by having homeowners, as they have in Fredericia, and by various means giving the individual better quality of life, postpone the time when a person needs a sick home place, and use an active care instead of what might be considered passive care, but which is very important for the sickest of the elderly, that they should have a sick home place. This is about the quality of life for me; it's about the possibility for the elderly not to enter a group where they are in a way weak and caring, but are older as individuals with different needs, which can be with and define what is the good life for them, to a greater extent than I think many older people feel today, where they feel that they are being put into a group. The resources of the older generation are not weighted enough, and the group is thought to be an older one, one by definition is a needy one, and belongs to a weak group. It's not like that. We have a resource-intensive group of older people, and these are the resources that I think we need to build up even more, so that older people get an even better age with a good quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e338	So what the Council of State is talking about is step 2 of the Cooperation Reform. The Minister of Health is already in step 2, for she has stated on several occasions that the Cooperation Reform, which was launched on 1 January this year, is a single major reform of rehabilitation, because the underlying thinking is more prevention and rehabilitation throughout society. The Christian People's Party and other opposition parties in Stortinget have repeatedly criticised the government because there is too little or no extra funds available for prevention and rehabilitation. In this Chamber, the parties to the Government have repeatedly voted in favour of proposals for an obligatory and comprehensive plan for rehabilitation. When the Council of State now calls for a turnaround, is it in this that, like the Christian People's Party, she believes that the measures of the Cooperation Reform are too weak?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e344	Interaction reform is a major welfare reform. I do not think that there is a lack of incentive in the Cooperation Reform of what we have now introduced, namely that we should get fewer hospital admissions, more people should be treated closer where they live, i.e. a decentralisation reform, building up skills, knowledge workplaces in health and care in more parts of the country, that we have a duty for municipalities to accept patients who have been treated and to rehabilitate them – all this is right. Incentives are precisely that, when local authorities can provide their own services, the resources that are currently being used by healthcare professionals could be used, for example. for rehabilitation. This is also a policy reform. Everything is not in place on 1 January 2012 – we have said that many times – but it will come into place. And then we have to move on from there to looking at older people in a way that is different from what we've done, rebuilding resources and making sure that more people can live a good and independent life longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e351	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Laila Davøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e354	In the evening post, it is said that the Council of State has stated: ‘We look for older people, with institutional places and medical treatment, where we should much more often give them help to take care of themselves’. Does the Council of State really think that we have too many sick places and happy places in Norway? Do the councils know about municipalities or hospitals that have admitted patients who are not sick enough to an institution place, when we know that on average, every person living in a hospital today has six or seven diagnoses? In other words, they're very sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e364	Governments agree that it was a point formulation, but the content is behind it. Because what we're doing today is, to a large extent, filling in medical supplies instead of coming in earlier, before getting all the diagnostics, so that the patient wouldn't necessarily get all the diagnostics, at least not so early in life. It's the prevention work that's all about, easy to get in early and cross-sectoral and interdisciplinary to see the whole human being, so that one can avoid getting all the diagnostics, at least some of them, and can be healthy longer. That's what you're working on in Fredericia. There are also some municipalities in Norway that have taken over – Voss has now created a project on this. There is a way of thinking that over 200 health and care workers in Norway have been in Fredericia. It's an idea to get in early, one avoids so many getting sick so early. But when they are sick, they shall have their place in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e369	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e372	One of the challenges that we face in the future is that more likely will be age dentures. Here, Denmark and Norway have different ways to deal with it. In Denmark, a large number of people have been opened to equip the elderly with GPS and give them full freedom of movement. This means that if they go away and have problems – maybe they're out cold and don't know how to get back – a very fast track them back and give them security and care. So in Norway, it's forbidden to equip age dentures with GPS. Instead, many old-age units are locked inside a closed section. They don't get freedom of movement at all. My question to the municipal minister is: What did the municipal minister think was best? What is the best offer - either GPS or lock them in a closed compartment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e383	The question of tracking people using GPS raises many difficult issues related to privacy. I'm among those who are very positive that we're going to bet on care technology. I've been to Gjøvik and I've looked at what they're doing there. I should have been in Bergen and looked at what they're doing there. The mountains otherwise cooperate very closely with the municipality of Voss when it concerns the project they have seen in the care of the elderly, and I am positive about it. But I must honestly admit that I still have a problem saying that those who are demented – perhaps because I have seen it closely – are going to get GPS, and that they are going to walk around without being able to distinguish between day and night, between what is cold and hot, or go out without clothes. All in all, we have to care for those who need it, and those who are demented definitely need care – and human care. GPS cannot be replaced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e390	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e393	The councils are very much talking about rehabilitation, and that is entirely in agreement with the Right. There is a need for a major new reform of the Norwegian health system and the development of the Norwegian health system, and it is linked to rehabilitation. It has been a claim from us for a long time without having been passed on to us. The growth we have seen in rehabilitation in recent years has been rehabilitation for people returning to work, while older people over the last few years – not least through the tools of the Interaction Reform – experience that their specialised rehabilitation offer is disappearing. The rehabilitation action launched by the voluntary organisations was entitled ‘... blah, blah, blah...’, precisely because they were so tired of the rehabilitating repeatedly spoken of by the government parties, but never followed up the demand for a national recovery plan. So my question to the Council of State is now: Have you got again '... blah, blah, blah...'? Or is there now a stepping-up plan for rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e402	«... blah, blah, blah...» thought I might not be parliamentary – it's said out there – but I understand that many people think it's been a lot of talk. I, as a municipal minister, who has very close contact with the municipalities, sees that this is requested. When you think about it in time, ask yourself how we should work so that we give our inhabitants the best possible offer. Then it's not just about rehabilitation. It's all about looking at the elderly – at the resources, for example. rebuild them. Many older people are lonely, looking at meeting places. Many can be helped by voluntary organisations and families, one must cooperate with them. How can we manage the care of the elderly at all in such a way that the sick can be confident that they will get the help they need, but that those who can actually take care of themselves can also get the support that will enable them to develop their skills in a good way. So this is about a lot more than rehabilitation, but rehabilitation is an important part of it, and we're also going to go further in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e409	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e413	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. Last summer, after intense negotiations, a predatory settlement was concluded. In this agreement, which was too difficult for many, some posts were laid as the foundation for a settlement that eventually all the parties joined. Clear stock targets within the predatory game groups and clear management delegations were outsourced and led to the reconciliation. In the agreements it was, among other things. the line after the stock targets had been reached, local management had to assume management responsibilities. In other words, in the eight regions, predators were to take over the responsibility for setting hunting quotas, for example. globular, where the target species was reached. The robbers took responsibility, and local knowledge and professional advice lay at the bottom. Nevertheless, the following experiences: the Ministry of the Environment adopted a significant reduction in allowances, from 157 to 118 gauper – i.e. a reduction of 25 pst., i.e. every four gaupes – despite the fact that the glope population in 2009 was 92 family groups, and the goal in the comparison was 65. In region 6, More and Romesdal, South Trondelag and North Trondelag, Rovviltnemenda entered for a hunt of 60 animals. The Ministry of the Environment has changed this and reduced it to 44 animals – more than 25 pst. reduction. The latter also adopted an additional quota of 10 animals, out of the four adult hoofs, based on local experience. The Ministry also converted this and gave no additional quota. The Ministry of the Environment is thus overrun by the predatory game subject that has delivered the most gloupe to Norwegian nature over time. Greater mistrust is difficult to find in Norwegian predator management. Also from region 2 there has been a shattering opinion against the Ministry of the Environment's overtest. Democracy is being undermined, said joint councillor Ellinor Marita Jåma during the celebration of the national day of the gathering. And the question is, Hasn't the Minister for the Environment respected and accepted the content of the Robbery Agreement and the vulnerability of the settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e428	Let me start by thanking Oskar J. Grimstad for an important question, but it's also a difficult question. Of course, the government is following up the predatory settlement. We follow up the predatory settlement point by point, and I'd like to get back to all of the other points. For example, there is a great deal of attention about the emergency court, and we will make proposals to the Storting within a very short time on how it can be implemented. In the case of gaupe, we were in the difficult situation that, on the one hand, the Stortinget has set targets for how much gloupe and how many young people we are going to have in Norway, and, on the other hand, the predators in three areas have set hunting goals that, in our opinion, will clearly undermine the goals the Stortinget has set for how many gaupes we are going to have. Our ambition is just one thing: that the management responsibility should lie with the predators. They shall ensure that predators are removed, but must be within the framework of national policy. The national policy is not determined by me. National policy is determined by the Stortinget, and we are set to manage it. I think the Storting would also react if the Ministry of the Environment accepted a policy that would make us far below the stock targets. My opinion is that the Storting has meant the stock targets quite literally. In other words, we shouldn't be far above the stock targets. Nor should we be far below the stock targets. We're going to lie around the stock targets. Everyone realizes that nature is not an exact science, so it can't be exactly. But about where the Storting has set the stock targets, we must lie, and then the Ministry of the Environment – although it is unpopular – must have an administrative regime that will ensure that the Storting's decision is put to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e443	As the minister says, the stock measures are exact. It is just as wrong to lie above as to lie below. On average, in the last three years the file targets have been way beyond their destination. But this, as he says, has to do with respect for the work of the Great Government, and it is interesting to note that this government's perhaps foremost representative, the Prime Minister, has been more often in the South Pole than he has been in this Chamber. But it might have something to do with respect for the hall. It is perceived as a little disrespectful when one in a contract is clear that local administration, local discretion and local understanding, that professional knowledge is the basis, and then a NINA model, which is brand new, uses to set these goals. Then the question is, how can it be that a greater emphasis is placed on this NINA model than on the good models that one has had before? It doesn't seem likely that one just throws these overboard and goes on a new model, which is beneficial to the Ministry of the Environment, but not to the predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e452	I want to give Grimstad the right idea that it's not possible to get an exact science with regard to the number of bounties and the creation of a forecast model for this. We don't have a chance to travel around nature and count each one, so making a forecast model for this is a difficult exercise. But the forecast model that NINA has made is clearly the best and most reliable we have. That's why we have to base it. I would also like to say that you really should think about one more time before you raid the Prime Minister's visit to the South Pole. That Roald Amundsen came to South Pole, is one of the most proud moments in Norwegian history. It was very central in Norwegian national construction. It's one of the greatest brags a Northman has ever done. That the Prime Minister will help to lift this up on the international arena, to create a big blight around it, is actually a very important PR task for Norway that we should be proud of all of us, instead of rubbing over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e459	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Henning Skumsvoll. The question of follow-up should then be either Gaupequota or South Pole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e464	I think I'll drop the South Pole and go on numbers from the Directorate of Nature Management. They have recorded that from 2007 to 2011, the number of colts increased from 51 to 58. The number of coals registered is approximately. 33 pst. over the size of the population, which is 39. When we know that the yerven is the greatest danger to grazing sheep, I must say that the increase in yerv is totally unacceptable. As of 20 January 2012, only 29 of you are in the field, and you have been allowed to drop 128. The hunting period runs from 10 September to 15 February, so the hunting period of the year ends in one week. Exceptional measures are urgently needed. What measures will the Council of State take to achieve the size of 39 coal yews? And does the Council of State realistically believe that the size figure can be achieved in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e473	Now the president allowed only gloat and the South Pole. We came over to you, but I assume it's an opportunity to discuss it too. We follow the same policy for you as for gaupe, namely to base the Storting's objectives and to have the predators as the main instrument for implementing the Storting's decision. That is to say, the predators determine what kind of hunting is to be conducted, but they must operate within the framework of the Storting decision. Otherwise we'll get into an impossible situation, where one part of the country practices it in one way, and another part of the country practice it in another way. I also believe that, in that case, it will become very much regional discontent if you, for example, do. would have many more predators in one area than in another, compared with the size of the Storting. As far as globs are concerned, we are now, in our opinion, close to the population goal of Storting, which is 65 family groups. There has been a significant decrease since 2009, where, according to our measurements, there were 92 family groups – again with the uncertainty that we all have to admit is related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e482	Bjørn Lødemel – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e485	I'll stick to my fingers. To many, it was a big deal to negotiate a new game deal. There were clear expectations that the new agreement would correct the deficiencies from 2004, not least restore trust in the administration. The pilot-in-command concludes that the pilot-in-command must be based on scientific and factual knowledge and that regional pilot-in-commands must be strengthened. Governments have been responsible for predatory wildlife policy since the government change in 2005, and it is very disappointing to see that he uses the first opportunity to break important provisions for the new settlement by setting hunting quotas on gaupe. The Ministry of the Environment uses recording methods that the researchers do not do well when it comes to setting these hunting quotas. The Ministry of the Environment and the Council of State are thus involved in increasing the level of conflict, contrary to the main thrust of the new agreement. What would the government do to set hunting quotas on gloats consistent with the last official population measure for gloat of 75 family groups? And how will he facilitate local administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e496	We've set hunting quotas for gloats that are in line with the stock target. That's why we've done it. We can't accept that we're getting far below the stock targets that Stortinget has set, nor are we going to accept that we're going to get far beyond. Our policy shall be to follow the stock targets set by Stortinget. We'll do that, with the local predators as the main tool, or to put it another way: the main decision maker and the main supporter. But it also demands that predators operate within the framework of national policies. I would also like to make a prayer to the opposition: there has been a whole right discussion here, but I see a number of staging representatives who – after the rapture agreement was adopted in Stortinget – run around to local media and, for all practical purposes, sow doubts or undermines the rapture agreement. Robbery policy is a highly sensitive and difficult matter. It also demands that the opposition meet with local media and the local population to take responsibility for what they have been involved in adopting in the Stortingen just a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e503	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad — for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e507	This is really about the trust we have in the local, or regional, predators and the confidence in predatory policy. For my region, region 2, which is East Agder, Telemark, Vestfold and Buskerud, I know the numbers quite well. There, Rovdata says that in the last three years it's been 19, 17 and 141⁄2, and the goal is 12. Then I want to say that based on the measures that Stortinget has set, we are very much above. When Region 2 set 32 gauges as its target, and the Ministry of the Environment overrun it and set it to 15, I cannot see that it meets the Storting's intentions. But in any case, one here in the Chamber hears that there is so much concern related to an important part of the predatory settlement that I believe the Council of State should be a little more humble, perhaps willing to go one more round, or perhaps bring some additional quotas to the gaupe. Because I can't see it, and so maybe the question is also: Does the Council of State think it's right that a new, inexperienced model should be able to override the local expertise and experience of predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e514	Now I just heard the numbers from Ropstad in fast order, but as I perceived them, they showed that you were at very full speed down to the stock target, just in region 2. There was a sharp decline from year to year. That shows that the policy actually works. We're getting close to the goals of the Stortinget. Now, in the near future, there is an interpellation from the representative on predatory policies. It will give a rich opportunity to discuss this more thoroughly, and of course I will listen to what the Storting says. But it is also important that the Storting dares – when there are any conflicts and storms out there – to stand firm on the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e519	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e522	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. The Council of State is familiar with the Right’s commitment to biodiversity in Norway — and in and on its own in the world — most recently reflected in the debate we had in this Chamber on the Aichi objectives of Nagoya a few weeks ago. It is important to maintain species belonging to Norway and species migrating to Norway that are threatened in their natural habitat. However, none of the parts is the case with the black-tailed paw, which migrated from its natural habitat in the Netherlands, Germany, France and Denmark in 1969. Since then, there has been a stable population of about 20 nesting pairs on the Iron. In Europe, there are between 99 000 and 140 000 breeding pairs, and worldwide, it is estimated to be 800,000 individuals. In other words, it is in no way a species threatened in its natural habitat. Nevertheless, it was listed as a priority species in Norway in 2010, with a major impact on agriculture on the Jären region. So it is well known that the Council of State party is concerned with paperless immigrants and their condition in Norway, and obviously also by those who come with feathers or find. My question, however, is how can the Council of State justify the fact that the black-tailed pontiff qualifies as a priority species under the Nature Diversity Act Section 23 and also the consequences it has for the confidence of the environmental authorities and the controversial decisions that we know need to be taken in order to preserve biodiversity in Norway, when the Nature Diversity Act is managed as arbitrarily as it may appear in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e533	I will perhaps admit that I had been waiting for another question from the representative of Astrup, given the media events of the last few days, but it is also a pleasure to answer in the case of the black-tailed poof. Astrup points to a central dilemma — the question of what we do with species that are not threatened worldwide, but the local population in Norway is threatened. It's not just this one, it's an argument like this. has also been stated in the case of wolves. No one has claimed that wolves as species are threatened in the world, but wolves as populations may be threatened in Norway. The policy we have pursued to date is that although a species is not threatened worldwide, it is threatened in Norway as a major criterion, because over time it changes Norwegian nature if many species with important populations disappear. This is also often the case, as far as I can see from the papers – I have to admit that I am no expert on black-tail paws – there are also sub-groups of black-tail paws, a sub-group that exists in the southern part of Norway, and another subgroup, obviously somewhat different genetically, that exist in the northern part of Norway, so nature is usually quite complicated. It is not that black-tailed pores are threatened worldwide, but those in Norway are a special variant of the black-tailed pode. Where there have been conflicts related to this, is in Rogaland. We're very concerned about solving those conflicts. On 26 January, a mechanism was put in place for a meeting between the county and the landowners on economic instruments linked to the suspension. The scheme shall imply that no farmer suffers any significant financial loss as a result of the regulation. The meeting also made it clear that the agricultural land concerned could in practice be used as normal until the end of May. We have also received a letter from the owner-in-law of Klepp on the regulations. They will receive an answer to this, and, of course, we will have to engage in a dialogue with the landowners in order to resolve this in an amicable way. It's a typical example of the kind of things and conflicts we have around the law of natural diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e542	The Council of State comparisons with wolf levels, because wolf is a species with long and historical traditions in Norway, while the black-tailed pontoon is relatively recently immigrated — in 1969 — and has had a stable development on the Jären. It has, despite the fact that it has not been on the priority list. Then it is gratifying that the government should compensate the landowners financially. But my main question is: does the Council of State see the consequences this has for the trust in the management and management of the natural diversity law by environmental protection authorities, in particular in view of the controversial decisions that we need to take, when it is managed in such a arbitrary way that a population which obviously does not fall within the scope of Section 23 of the Natural Diversity Act still ends up there?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e547	Black-tailed pomegranate is classified as a highly endangered species on the Norwegian red list for species, because it has a very small population in Norway. That was the reason why the King of the Council of State laid down a regulation on 20 May which designated it as a priority species. I'm not going to stand up to a final expert and judge on the black-tailed paw's history in Norway. Then I have to go deeper into matter, I have to admit it, but this is the background for it. It is also shown that the subspecies black-tailed pove limosa has its centre of gravity on the Jären, while the subspecies islandica occurs in North Norway. The main problem on the Jären is very low youth production from the birds, which hedge on the battlegrounds of culture. But the very basic thing here, namely going into a dialogue with the peasants about the exposed beat, is not something we have just for the black-tailed poof. Among a good deal of other bird species, there are migratory birds that come from Africa and travel to North Norway, and that need a place to interconnect in South Norway. Having a dialogue with farmers about compensation for making their land available is a general theme that we also have in a number of other species.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e556	A follow-up question has been asked to elaborate on the situation of the black-tailed pox, and it is given a chance. Frank Bakke-Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e561	In Finnmark, everything under the must be called a tentacles. It's much, much easier with regard to this with titles. There are three priorities that are emphasised when you're about to rediscover something. It is that the species have a stock situation or population development that makes it necessary, that the species have a significant share of their natural distribution in Norway, or that there are international obligations relating to the species. In the case of the black-tailed pox, it does not meet any of these requirements. I come from a state where trust in the protection of the Council of State is not further high, while I also come from a state where we have paperless immigrants with fur and claws, both above and below water. My question to the Council of State is: can we expect the same unprincipled attitude to protect and take into account, for example: moon dog, coming over the Pasvik Valley, or the snow crab, which is now in hundreds of thousands walking through the Barents Sea, where the Council of State has just announced a new regime for the protection of fjords? Is it not possible to deal with adopted criteria when starting with mares?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e570	I'm a little impressed by how the Right to this debate has read up on detailed knowledge about the species of black-tailed paw. I'm going to go home and do my homework and read thoroughly about this species, me too. The general thing is that we want to take care of species that are on the Norwegian red list. Black-tailed pove's on that red list. I have not recorded any major professional debate on it, but I will of course go back and check if it exists. We're going to take care of those species. What is the very basic principle of the Nature Diversity Act is how to adapt nature to human activity. Very many species depend on human activity, for example: that there are fields for a bird to interconnect on the way up to the representative's kingdom in Finnland. We will facilitate this in dialogue with farmers who will then receive compensation. It should be a system for which the Right General should be equal, and for which I think it is widely accepted. Then I hear you paint with a broad brush that the Ministry of the Environment does not trust. All studies show that SV is sovereign of the lot with the highest confidence in environmental issues in Norway. It's just taking a survey with any gallup bureau.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e579	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e591	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Nikolai Astrup to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e613	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e620	I owe it to note that there has been an error in writing in the question that has been formulated in writing: ‘Climate researchers at the Nansensenteret in Bergen’ – it shall be the Bjerknesenteret – ‘have taken up the possibility of establishing a climate service centre where municipalities and other actors can be assisted in developing more detailed climate and rainfall forecasts for local planning and preparedness. An equivalent centre is available, for example: in Germany. As far as I understand, there has also been dialogue with the Ministry of the Environment on the idea. How does the Council of State make such a proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e634	I would like to thank Mr Warloe for an important question, which will, of course, be dealt with in depth in the communication on climate adaptation that the government will present to the Stortinge during this year. Municipalities are facing very significant challenges in the face of a changing climate. There are many – not least municipal planning. The most important thing is to ensure that no new dwellings are planned in areas that are particularly exposed to climate change, whether they are of sea level rise, of race – snowmobiles, campraces – or of places that are flooded, and of dialogue with citizens who have previously built in such areas, and with their insurance companies, so that they can look at solutions for how to proceed with housing. The same applies, of course, to roads, lines and everything else. With the help of the Bergen Mountain Centre, an overview has been prepared of how much the sea could rise in all Norwegian coastal municipalities in this century. It has not adopted a uniform increase, but it is significantly different from the area to the area. It's e.g. different from Ålesund to Bergen, to take an example. Guides have been created for how municipalities can start their adaptation work, and a first comprehensive analysis was made in 2009 of how climate change can be addressed in Norway. All this information, which is important for the practical adaptation work, is collected and posted in a web portal on the government’s website called climate adaptation.no. This website was launched in 2008 and includes, inter alia: a lot of practical experience from concrete adaptation measures in Norwegian municipalities. Through the cities of the future, the thirteen largest cities have been surveyed how they are affected. through planned climate and precipitation forecasts. A wide-ranging public sample led by the State of Sogn and Fjordane presented a report on how Norway should adapt to its changing climate. This sample proposes much of the same as the representative here, namely to create a climate service centre to facilitate more detailed and comprehensive information on climate change and the results of climate models. Such information is important, and the Meteorological Institute has already started systematic work on making more climate information available in collaboration with the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate. The overall picture of this, including the specific proposal that the representative is making, will be brought back to us in the Climate Change Adaptation Communication. Let me add, for the interest it might have, that this is not just a Norwegian question. This is a global question. It doesn't help the government in a country, let's say Zambia, to know that on average it gets wetter in the country. You have to know if it gets wetter in the north and dries in the south, or vice versa, you have to have very precise weather forecasts. In cooperation with the World Meteorological Organization, in a cooperation agreement that I have just signed with them, we in Norway will do what we can to facilitate more precise and better weather information also for those countries that do not have the money to obtain it in the same way as Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e645	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I had almost said that incidentally – but perhaps it is not so random – my impression is that in Bergen, among the institutions and environments that exist there, there is very broad and leading climate research competence. I got hurt to mix the Nansen Center and the Mountain Center here. Let me therefore also thank the Council of State for the contribution to the Nansen Centre in the budget for 2012. I took it up in a previous question here in the Questionnaire. As far as this climate service centre is concerned, as I believe researchers, it is a relatively simple step to take, because you actually have the expertise to do. There are several actors here, among others. Meteorological Institute and NVE, who have collaborated on this idea and recorded to the ministry. Does the Council of State realize that this is one of the projects that you can easily get started?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e656	I think it is perfectly obvious that, as a work on the climate adaptation message, we need to facilitate weather and rainfall forecasts that are more precise and as scientific as possible and how they should be made available. Just where to anchor, which institutions to stand for it – such things – we have to come back to. But I want to give Warloe on behalf of Bergen honor, because there is no doubt that we are talking about one of the strongest and best environments we have in Norway, namely the Nansen Centre and the Bjerknescentrum. They're not just among the best we have in Norway. These are institutions that are at the forefront of international research in this area, and which we will of course use, both in our Norwegian adaptation work and in order to facilitate better predictions for other countries. I would like to give the representative credit for contributing to a change in the distribution of money, so that there was also money for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e665	On my visits, both at the Mountain Centre and in meeting with researchers at the Nansen Centre, I have noticed that there is a very strong international impact on the researchers there. One of those who has the front-line idea of the climate adaptation centre is a young climate researcher from Brazil. At the Nansen Center and elsewhere there are lots of Chinese, Indians and people from all over the world. Then I agree with the Council of State that this is something that has international significance. Does the Council of State, if a climate service centre is established in Bergen, based on the expertise available there, see that it is also possible to provide assistance to developing countries and other parts of the world with this kind of advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e672	Absolutely. I always respect that researchers in developing countries too often have a lot to contribute to us. But as late as last week, I was in India and the awoke signing an agreement between the Mountain Centre and TERI, who is Professor Pachauri's climate institute in Dehli. It is precisely to facilitate that the competence we have in Bergen – I would rather say the competence of the researchers there – can be provided for inwards, but of course also so that we can reap from the work they do. There are many common issues here, for example: between ice in Himalayas and ice in arctic areas. The mountain is one of the wettest places in Europe, perhaps the wettest, while India through monsoons has places that are much wetter. So there are many issues of common interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e677	The President will remind the Council of State that he will speak to the President when he answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e691	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e698	My question to the Minister for Agriculture is this: ‘Biff deficiency and failure of Norwegian beef production are reported. The industry itself believes that increased budget support is necessary to increase production and that it is not possible to take more advantage of increased prices. In view of the situation, will the Council of State consider changes in the structure of grants, possibly the transfer of grants, to more targeted schemes to increase production and make it more profitable?"
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e707	Let me first say that Norwegian consumers will have access to enough beef. If we do not have enough Norwegian raw material, imports shall be made to avoid under-coverage. I would therefore like to stress that this is not a meat crisis. We don't have a shortage of meat in the shops in Norway. Such supplementary imports of beef were also carried out in 2011, as in previous years, to meet overall demand. This shows that the market regulation system is working. The main reason we have too little Norwegian beef is the decline in the number of dairy cows over many years. In the period 2000–2010, the number of cows was reduced by nearly 62 000 animals, corresponding to a decrease of 21 pst. This is related to reduced milk consumption during the period. Increased production per dairy cow also reduces the number of cows. This obviously results in a large impact in the production of beef through fewer dairy cows and cattle for slaughter. After an increase in the consumption of beef from 2009, it has been difficult to meet demand for Norwegian raw material. However, I would like to state that, starting with the agricultural settlement in 2006, the government has taken a number of measures to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture. Over the period 2006-2012, the average income potential, measured as remuneration for labour and equity, has increased by an average of NOK 110 000 per year, corresponding to 70 pst. So I would like to stress that the government has provided a good development in the income opportunities of agricultural enterprises since 2005. Furthermore, I would like to stress that throughout the period, we have put particular emphasis on measures aimed at roughage-based livestock farming in the form of increased budget support, but also through the scheme of the subsidy schemes. We have e.g. significant funds used for a new grazing premium and granted access to operating grants for specialised meat animal production to all producers of bovine animals. The government has a clear objective to meet domestic demand for agricultural products that we have naturalised to produce in Norway, within the given trade policy frameworks. With the large grassland and grazing resources we have in Norway, roughage-based livestock farming is particularly important. The government wants to continue to make a special effort on this livestock sector, as we have also laid the foundation for the new Communication to the European Council on Agriculture and Food Policy. In the agricultural production process that is now under way in 2012, we will assess the current measures to further stimulate the roughage-based livestock population. However, I cannot now anticipate what will become the state's proposal for solutions in the negotiations later in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e726	I think perhaps the Minister of Agriculture should be a little cautious about highlighting market regulation when crises may threaten. We've seen this winter that you don't always have an overview of what's coming in the future. I also find it strange that there is a trend from 2006 to 2012 on the income side, because what is at the bottom of the question is short and good that there is too little production because it is not profitable enough. That's the point. That's why I'm asking, not what comes of money in the farm business -- we'll see when we're done talking about it -- but if it's possible to make changes in the way the subsidies are arranged, so that we get more effect out of the money we spend? In short, we get a more rational production where it pays, and for those who are willing to bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e733	I think we need to look at the structural challenges in the system and not just at grant organisation, or grant measurement. The demand for milk has a direct impact on how many dairy cows and how many calves we get, and thus also an impact on how we can meet the market's needs for beef. Connected to changes in demand, this is what the market regulator needs to find a solution to, and through supplementary imports, we have been able to solve this in a good way for years. That is why I stress that market regulation is working. So that's the way Svein Fleet emphasizes, that we can look at how we use the tools to achieve the goals we have set in the message. That is what I will constantly be concerned with evaluating and reviewing in order to get more targeted schemes, to get more targeting of the use we have of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e743	Yes, I believe to the greatest extent that there will be a need to go through the structure of subsidies and the use of money in agricultural policy, if – as the Council of State now says – all the objectives of the communication are to be achieved, because it is a very ambitious overall objective. Therefore, I am pleased that we do not hear any concessions from the Council of State, so at least an agreement that things have to change. I think it's important – not least for the Council of State, who travels around and has access to all the environments – to tell us that we need to change some elements of the money we spend, and then we'll see what you spend more or less. But we have to get more out of it. It is, I think, a necessity, and if I have perceived the Council of State so that he slightly agrees with such views, I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e748	As I said, I am very concerned that we are going to use the resources we have, the resources we have through the community, to ensure Norwegian food production, so that we achieve all the objectives as best we can. So that's also what the Fleet says, that there are ambitious objectives in the agricultural and food communication. We can't do this in one agricultural settlement; these are things that have to happen over time, and as I hope there will be an agreement in the Stortingen, also about implementation. Then we have to look at the tools and look at how we use them. I would like to stress that we also need to look at how we use these instruments within the trade policy frameworks we have, because this also limits the flexibility of the system. My conclusion is that we are constantly looking for tools, the way to exploit the framework we have, in such a way that we achieve the political objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e763	‘One year ago, the Party of Progress proposed to remove the 26-year limit for the coverage of facilities for the training and activity of disabled persons. All batches have previously proposed to remove the age limit, and the Council of State has promised to consider extending the scheme when the Auxiliary Committee's investigation was available. The investigation has taken longer than expected and, in the meantime, the budget line has been cut. Why cut if the goal is to remove the age limit, and when will the aid come to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e770	As I've also said before, I understand the commitment that disabled people should have equal opportunities to participate in games, leisure activities and sports. Many activity aids require special adaptation and are significantly more expensive than what the population otherwise pays. The implementation of the legislation is related to the decision of the Stortinget in the autumn of 2003 to define the concept of ‘daily life’. Recreational, recreational, training, etc. falls outside what gives entitlement to social benefits. However, specialised toys and sports equipment — activity aids — and equipment for training, stimulation and play to persons under 26 years of age have been exempted. Any amendment to the legislation, to ‘the tasks of daily life’, will be a budgetary matter which is estimated to double the expenditure for the purpose. The representative of Giltun refers to the proposal of the Auxiliary Committee to lift the age limit, and asks why it would be cut in this entry in the State budget if it was a goal of removing the age limit. In the sense of the Law on Social Security, an aid is suitable for direct remedying or compensating for a malfunction. A product that was to be regarded as an aid for a time back may fall outside the definition of the aid as development progresses and the products have become commonly acquired in ordinary retail trade. It was therefore decided in the 2012 budget that equipment which can be regarded as ordinary equipment and which individual should take responsibility for the purchase should be removed from the range of social security equipment in the public interest. This applies regardless of the issue of the age limit for these aids. The representative Giltun also asks when the aid comes to Stortinget. As notified in Prop. 1 S for 2011–2012 the government has seen the need for more detailed investigations of some of the sample’s proposals. I want to properly inform the Storting about the follow-up to the sample proposal once the government has concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e783	I have a picture of two check-ups here. It's Dagfinn Enerly and Thomas Jacobsen. One is 36, and the other is 24. Jaundice said very nicely: ‘We are not disabled. Just a little relax in your legs and arms.’ That is precisely what prevents many disabled people – whether they are 24 years old as Thomas, or, as Dagfinn, 36 years old – from participating in leisure activities. I am surprised that the Council of State does not have any more urgency with this matter, now that it is a big effort to get more disabled people back to work. There is also a commitment in municipalities to the Interaction Reform on habilitation and prevention of harm and to better manage the lives of more people. What is the reason why the Council of State will not take this matter out and give them a popular right, regardless of age, to more activity in everyday life, as this will be socio-economically profitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e795	I am pleased that the representative just refers to the effort now being made to make people with disabilities work, and that the government in the 2012 budget has just invested considerable money to get this done. It's our main commitment to disabled people for the 2012 budget. Then I've been clear that I understand that this age limit can seem restrictive, just in relation to older age groups, and I've been very clear that we're going to get back to this. However, there are significant budgetary implications, and there are at all very many questions related to the Auxiliary Affairs Committee’s investigation. It is not surprising that there is a great deal of disagreement about some points, such as: between the adjustment and the associations of disabled persons. Therefore, the totality in assessing this setting is that it has to be done thoroughly and properly, and I have said that I will return to Stortinget – including in the 26-year period – in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e802	In the past, the Council of State has also said that this needs to be seen in the context of other measures. I would remind the Council of State that all parties have actually proposed to remove the 26-year limit, so there is a broad political consensus that it should not be there. The proposal of the Agency, against which there was great opposition, was to add responsibility to the municipalities. Then there would be no legal right, and then maybe the whole scheme would disappear. So if you really believe that there should be a system that reaches everyone, and that this should be a good offer for disabled people to maintain health and get an active leisure time, that should not be a difficult matter. But what does the Council of State think is the alternative to having freedom to an active leisure time, to being active in sports or outdoors with friends and family? There is nothing the municipality can offer as an alternative to this scheme. Does not Norway’s most popular TV programme, ‘No Borders’, show that everyone needs challenges and to be out in the open?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e809	I totally agree. The point, as the representative says, is that the Committee on the Resources has also decided that the 26-year limit should be raised. I've said before that I have a great understanding of the commitment to cancel it. However, unlike the representative of the Progress Party, I am also concerned about the budgetary implications of this, and – as I said – we have in 2012 prioritised a large-scale effort to bring young people with disabilities into the labour market. Now I'm going to come back to this question of the 26-year limit in an appropriate way to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e818	‘Freestad is a smaller wind power extension in Haå on Jären, which received a concession in May 2010. However, the concession was appealed to the Ministry. Already in 2005, this project went to treatment in NVE. It has now been seven years since the initiation of proceedings, and more than one and a half years since the complaint was dealt with in the department. When does the Council of State consider it reasonable for the applicant to obtain clarification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e825	Not only this wind power expansion, but also the other wind power expansions in Rogaland and on Jären, I assume that we will finally be treated before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e830	It sounds good that it's coming before summer. Friestad is a smaller wind power development that you have the impression of having ended up in the pile together with a lot of big and complicated things. Does what the Council of State now says, that this case will be picked out and prioritised, so that one gets a faster clarification than in the cases that will necessarily take a little more time because in them there are more complex relationships?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e835	That means that we will give priority to all of these things. There has been an extensive treatment that has taken time. It is reasonable that the cases find their clarification, and as I said, we aim to clarify everyone before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e840	Minister for Environment Erik Solheim stated at a meeting on 16 January that six years of treatment for wind power projects is excessive and that he would take an initiative towards the Ministry of Oil and Energy in order to achieve a common political priority linked to the continuation of these projects. Has this initiative been taken and will there be a change in the treatment of wind power projects in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e845	We are planning meetings with the Ministry of the Environment, so far as we have a continuous dialogue. It is a good initiative that the Minister for the Environment has taken, and from our point of view, we naturally welcome all the measures that can lead to a shorter, more effective and better concessional treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e854	‘In connection with the development of new power lines, radiation hazards from these plants are often posed. In Eikefjord in the municipality of Flora, there is great concern that the planned 420 kW line will lead to increased cancer risk due to radiation. This line is close to the built-in school. In Norway, it is difficult to establish that the precautionary principle should be an overarching principle in Norwegian environmental policy. How is the precautionary principle specifically practised in the planning of powerlines, and what assessments have been made in this area?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e861	It is State radiation protection that is responsible for the regulations and guidelines that apply to all exposure we are exposed to from electromagnetic fields. The application of the precautionary principle has been replaced by the principle of soundness in this area of management, which requires that all exposure from electromagnetic fields be sound. Thus, criteria are set for when and which risks can be accepted. The current management strategy on magnetic fields and high voltage health is described in St.prp. No 66 for 2005-2006. It is clear from all the plans that, among other things: on power lines at construction, schools and kindergartens, the exposure situation shall be identified and possible measures to reduce magnetic fields and consequences of actions shall be discussed. When assessing measures, an attempt should be made to avoid the presence of magnetic fields above the investigation level of 0,4 microtesla. Higher exposure may be accepted if the consequences of field mitigation measures become excessive. In the case of new lines, the measures in question have usually changed the trajectory or the line suspension. Cost-intensive wiring at higher voltage levels or demolition of houses will not normally be the current prevention measures. If the magnetic field level is above 0,4 microtesla, measures should be considered, but it is not understandable as a limit at which measures are always to be implemented. The individual case has to be assessed individually and other important considerations may indicate greater or lesser emphasis on magnetic fields. According to NVE requirements, Statenett in the Ørskog-Sogndal case has surveyed all settlements closer to 100 metres from the centreline, assuming that all settlements that could be exposed on average to electromagnetic fields above the investigation limit of 0,4 microtesla have been covered. The school in Eikefjord is said to be just under 300 meters – 280 meters – away from new power lines, i.e. three times as far away. In other words, it will not be exposed on average to electromagnetic fields above the study limit. Research results do not provide any evidence to suggest that there is a link between higher magnetic field loads for shorter periods of time and health effects in children or adults. The magnetic field at maximum current load is therefore not relevant in the area the representative has addressed on this issue. In my view, the Ørskog-Sogndal department has addressed the issue of exposure from the electromagnetic field in line with the existing regulations and guidelines and based on the strategy that Stortinget has previously addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e874	These new powerlines represent a lot of fear in the areas they come in, and it's a real fear. We also see that in Eikefjord, and we see it in more places. I would like the Council of State to visit Eikefjord and also visit those who are now getting that line close. I also have another example. In the Ålfoten, the new 420 kW line is planned in the vicinity of the school. The common feature of both of these projects is that the line was changed during the complaint procedure recently. This creates great uncertainty. The radiation prognosis is based on only 25 pst. the maximum load of these lines. There is great wonder about why the radiation hazard is not calculated from 100 pst. – so maximum load at current in these lines. Will the Council of State ensure that these guidelines are changed, so that maximum loads will be used to calculate radiation hazards?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e885	It is true that this is a new line in Sogn and Fjordane, but 420 kW power lines are not a new phenomenon in Norway or in Norwegian society. It has lived with and alongside the Norwegian population for generations. We have to assume that's going to continue. I am concerned that we are constantly developing knowledge about any damage associated with electromagnetic radiation. The type of limit values and what is relevant is primarily a professional question. I am aware that there is a question that is up to regular assessment. So it's also so that when building new lines, it's hard to avoid putting them in the vicinity of places where they live or where they live. But through a long concessional process and complaint handling, I think we have developed good, comprehensive solutions everywhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e894	Radiation hazard creates fear. We just have to make that clear. In Oslo, Hafslund has been allowed to dig several high-spent cables in a walkway on Skøenen, which is the way to kindergarten and school. This happens despite the fact that researchers at SINTEF say that this will often exceed what is justifiable. We know that radiation from cables is strongly above the cable, as opposed to at the air voltage where the radiation goes out further. On such a path, children will be forced to use this walkway on their way to and from school, so many are afraid that it will be dangerous. In St. prp. No 66 states that there is a risk of a slight increase in leukemia cases by permanent delay near magnetic fields, which, according to the government’s assessment, means that a search to avoid the establishment of field effects where this can be done at no greater cost and disadvantage, and that one should carry out distributions and assess measures. Will the Council of State ensure that this theme is thoroughly discussed in the new online message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e903	Regarding the example of the representative on Skøeen, I ask for an understanding that when it has not been reported in the usual way to the Questionnaire, I am not prepared to be able to answer it. Of course, the department will do that if it is sent to us, either as a written question or to the next question hour. So I don't think there's any disagreement that we're going to try to avoid and prevent any influence of electromagnetic radiation as far as it can be done. These include: That's why we're trying to keep that kind of installation as far away from construction, school and places where people live a lot, as far as possible. But it's hard to get this infrastructure, as I said, without being close to places where people live and stay. I'm assuming that we keep paying attention to these questions. Of course, if new knowledge is to emerge, it must have consequences for our administration and our practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e910	The ordinary Questionnaire has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-08.ana.ud1888e923	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – The meeting has been cancelled
