ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e57	The representatives Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Anette Trettebergstien, Per Roar Bredvold, Else-May Botten, Rigmor Andersen Eide and Robert Eriksson, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Thor Lillehovde, has now taken the seat. The representative of Torstein Rudihagen is applying for leave on 16 and 17 October to attend the high-level part of the eleventh meeting of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity in Hyderabad, India. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the commodity, Solvency Rindhølen, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. The Rindhølen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e114	The representative, Akhtar Chaudhry, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e117	It is a value in Norwegian society that the distance between people should be as small as possible. This is a value with a lot of excitement. Our society is built on and woven around this value. We must remember this as magnification representatives when we determine our... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e122	For a moment: the President is now uncertain whether the representative Chaudhry has taken the floor on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e125	It is also uncertain to the representative of Chaudhry. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e130	The size now deals with the distribution of budget chapters among the individual committees here in the house. The President thinks it's case number. 3 The representative Chaudhry wants to say something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e133	As the president understands, I won't miss the opportunity to say anything in this case, and that's why I signed up. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e138	We understood that, but does the representative have views on the distribution of the budget? The representative doesn't have that. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e154	Does the representative, Mr Chaudhry, wish to speak on this matter? – It does not want Chaudhry, but the representative Per-Kristian Foss does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e157	While the representative Chaudhry fines his statement on case no. 3, at least this is an article on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Laughter]] The Register is intended to provide an aggregate information on matters of this nature, which is of legitimate interest to the public. The Presidency will stress that the register is an important factor in safeguarding the reputation of the Storting and its representatives. As we are well known, we do not have rules on the capacity of big business representatives, but in return we practice a regular transparency on these issues, and the register is intended to cover them. The Presidency wants the register to remain a simple and easily accessible representation of relevant interests. The Presidency has recently carried out a review of the rules of the register and, on this basis, will propose some amendments. First, we will propose an adjustment to Section 7, which implies that additional benefits that a representative receives from his or her own party will be subject to registration. This could be done, for example, by: be extra pay, car compensation, free car or similar, which may be individual – to say it like that. Secondly, the Presidency proposes two amendments to the provisions of Section 9, first sentence, on the registration obligation of companies' interests exceeding 1 p.m. of the capital of the company. That's the rule today. We want interests in listed companies to be made visible, even if the value of the shares is less than 1 pst. 1 pst. in a large Norwegian company can, as you know, be of quite great value. We suggest setting the limit to 1 G, which is currently – after the adjustment in May 2012 – NOK 82 122. There shall be the limit to recording interests, in addition to the percentage limit. It is the limit that will follow the annual regulation of the G amount, and the amount has been selected from what we have seen is the practice in our neighbouring countries, the Nordic countries. This is approximately at the mid-level of the border in the other Nordic countries. Secondly, the Presidency considers that it is appropriate to clarify that the underlying company interests should be reported to the register. The organisation of an establishment should not be a matter of decisive importance for the registration requirement if it is the reality that activities are carried out in the underlying companies. That is, if you have an AS that records all of your interests, which in turn owns other AS that engages in active activity, their business should also be recorded, whatever they have to do. As a last change, we propose a simplification. In other words, the registration of travel and visits abroad, gifts or other financial benefit related to the function as a wholesaler shall be deleted after 10 years, i.e. a limitation period of 10 years. This does not apply to other interests. There's the obsolescence at the moment when, for example, the company ceases to exist. Then it's deleted from the register. This is also due to the overall size of the register, which is gradually becoming quite large. There were the three minor adjustments proposed. I remind you that the register is available, that it is regularly remembered, and that it applies to the members of the government as well, because the government has taken a special decision to join the register. There's full transparency about these interests as well. I remind you that you should be careful, but not observant at the same time. For example, a flower bouquet, which has been tried by some, is not subject to registration. There's still a limit of NOK 2,000. This means that simple gifts of recognition are completely unnecessary to register, because the register is not meant to be a competition in virtue or openness – or whatever you want. It is intended to follow the rules applicable to the register.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e183	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e197	The majority of the Presidency proposes to follow the position of the Wage and Occupational Pensions Commission. The suspension of the Wage and Wage Commission implies an annual wage increase for representatives and government councils of 4,1 p.m. This is the same as the expected annual wage growth in the state and municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e202	I'll have to try again! It is a value in Norwegian society that the distance between people should be minimised. This is a value with a lot of excitement. Our society is built on and woven around this value. We must remember this when we set our own salary – or remuneration, as it is formally called. SV has always been a supporter of the fact that as leaders we should not have revenues high above ordinary people's wages. Storing representatives should have a salary to live off, reflecting our responsibility, but not more than that. There has always been a disagreement about the salary of depositors and government councils. Some people think it's too low, others think it's too high. SV is satisfied with the salary paid to ginningsrepresentatives and state councils today. We believe, however, that it is so high that if we increase it by the same percentage as for most people, the crown value will be too high and the pay gap for ordinary people will increase further. In order to increase wages, but not more than ordinary people, the Swedish authorities believe that we should invest in crown supplements and not in percentage supplements. If we continue with percentage increases every year, the distance between the pay of politicians and the wages of ordinary people will increase more and more in the coming years. This is a development SV does not want to contribute to. We as leaders have a responsibility in terms of wage developments in society in general. Many of my colleagues, from all sides, have taken a stand against high wages in business and in the public sector. Today is the day when this criticism and this position must, and can, be made concrete. We can't be dissatisfied with the increasing pay gap in business and in public without ourselves going ahead as a good example. There is no lack of calls from different parties represented in this room for workers to show moderation. This message can, and will, be given content if you are careful with the pay directive today. There has been a debate on whether the Storting will lose good, talented and committed politicians if wages are not increased. To that I have two things to say: Political engagement cannot be purchased. Those who have become involved in politics and finally ended up in this room, did not begin their commitment to becoming rich in this. There were completely different factors that engaged us all who are today bigotry representatives or state councils. Here we actually see people who have gone down in income to serve society from the main hall or from the government position. I therefore do not see that there is a team in this message. We see that there's a struggle for potholes in almost all parties, and there are good people who could earn a lot more elsewhere than on the Stortinget. It again shows that there is no crisis, as some try to make it. I would therefore recommend the Stortinget to vote in favour of the minority's proposal from the Presidency. Finally, I should like to address this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e233	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e251	Oslo is the police district in Norway that is clearly the most affected by begging. Centre Police Station issued a report to the Police Directorate on the scope of the operation in May this year. In the enumeration of beggars mainly in Karl Johan's street and nearby streets and places, 187 beggars from Romania were found in one day. 69 of these were checked against identification documents, and 68 of the persons checked were registered with criminal offences. All of the Romanian officials checked, explained that they were sleeping out or in their cars. Many explained that they were here for the summer to beg, and that they traveled to Norway several times a year. There are significant regulatory challenges related to the foreign tigers. It's because they're many, and sometimes they don't have a dome, which makes them unable to decorate properly. Police receive numerous complaints relating to the monopolistisation of public places, the collection of informal charges, smuggling, aggressive beggars, permanence, occupation, overnight stays in parks and parking spaces and the establishment of tent camps. There are complaints about urination and faeces and complaints about noise, and food residues are thrown into the local environment and attract both moats and rats. There are complaints related to schools and kindergartens and residents who do not dare to release the children. The municipality of Oslo set up a volleyball track and developed an open-air area in the area of Elgsletta at Akerselva to make the area more useful for families, and to displace the abuse environment. However, the grills were removed when the area was widely monopolised by beggars. As regards the link between begging and crime, it is not possible to extract statistics for the criterion ‘beggars’ or similar expressions. However, Oslo Police District is of the opinion that there is a good basis for believing that there is such a connection. Oslo Police District states: ‘In the period from 1 January 2011 to 22 May 2012, 1787 criminal offences related to Romanian citizens are registered in the Oslo Police District, of which 1205 are win cases.’ On its side, Majorstua Police Station says about new trends and begging: ‘Recently, we’ve seen a new trend where handkerchiefs and a little more professional thieves use the beggars as an alibi to stay in the center. They can beg one day and commit handicrafts and other crimes the next day. Tigers also act as ‘spotters’ for handkerchiefs and keep goods for them.’ Several cases have been brought before the courts, showing a clear link between begging and profit crime. In one case against four people who had committed extensive burglaries from private homes combined with gross mass destruction of large values, there was an additional twenty persons who were feeding on beggars and/or prostitution at their address. Several of these were then prosecuted for possession of stolen goods. Ran and theft of the elderly are also a development that is seen, in connection with the fact that he himself has given money to the beggar. In addition, it is reported that in the beggar environment, other crimes such as the theft of bicycles and mobile phones, theft from conteins and reusable stations of televisions, PC equipment, clothing, metal thefts and handkerchiefs have been observed. Oslo now has more pocket thefts in absolute numbers than Berlin. Unfortunately, these phenomena are not confined solely to Oslo. South-Trundellag police districts have identified links between begging and crime, and states: ‘We have intelligence indicating that there is a link between begging and other crime, in particular disorder of order, profitability and prostitution, including gross theft by a person in a public place, shoplifting, gas slicks and the like.’ [[...]] Rogaland Police Districts state that they receive ‘complaints from the public who experience that they are being plagued by beggars, or are afraid to be subjected to crime as a result of being visited by beggars’. Further: ‘External information shows that the beggars are very mobile and travel across the country. They often travel along the lines and like in minibuses. Some of the cars we have registered in our district have been related elsewhere in the country to people who have been involved in drug sales, violation of the Arms Act [[...]] In a report on organised crime in Norway, Kripos stated in 2011–2012: ‘It is alarming that minors appear to be increasingly exploited in Norway. This applies in particular to coercive and beggar services. Criminal groups involved in trafficking in human beings are often involved in other crimes, in particular drug and profit crime.’ Further: ‘The size of organised begging in the largest cities is large and it is not expected to decrease in the near future.’ Further: ‘It has been stated in the debate on the introduction of a possible ban on begging that ‘many’ beggars are trafficked in human beings and that a ban would prevent exploitation of begging, including trafficking in human beings. The Police Directorate agrees with this.’ Tigger bans are also supported by all police districts particularly affected by this traffic. I have not recorded that the Minister of Justice – neither the current nor the previous – has been particularly concerned with these problems that I have raised in this interview. The Minister of Justice has been completely absent from the debate and, as far as I have registered, the Minister of Justice has not taken any initiatives to tighten up the provisions. If it is the case that the authorities are retreating to introduce a nationwide ban, the question can be asked whether it would not be natural to provide at least the cities and the municipalities that feel the problems in the first place, an opportunity to at least write in a warrant against begging in the local police regulations. When the Minister of Justice so far does not want to deal actively with the advice of the police districts and the Police Directorate – most recently the police directorate's letter to the Ministry of Justice on 4 June this year – at least the elected representatives of the municipalities, who obviously have a somewhat greater proximity to the population than the Ministry of Justice, should be given such a basis. Then local democracy can decide whether such a ban is to be imposed, and I would also like to stress that in each municipality and city there is also the possibility of seeing a possible reinforced beggar ban in connection with other social measures that the municipality has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e312	Europol is an important contributor to our knowledge of trafficking in human beings and other crimes. Last year, the organisation issued its own report on trafficking in human beings within the EU, as well as mentioning trafficking in human beings in Europol’s threat assessment related to all organised crime. Europol reports indicate that criminal groups within the space population are very mobile. The most vulnerable people in the space population — children and young women — are at risk of being exploited for trafficking in human beings by criminals. This is not least because authorities in many EU countries have taken a small active position on this challenge. Europol reports point to the fact that the size of the space population and the access of citizens of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area now make it necessary to expect an increase in trafficking in human beings by criminal groups within the space population. In many EU countries, there is a significant proportion of children involved in begging than in Norway. However, we have recently seen the police in Hordaland stop the business of a group that took advantage of children for theft and begging. In my opinion, however, there is no basis for saying that it is likely that a person from the space population begging on the street in Norway is a victim of trafficking in human beings. Those who beg here are a disparate group who often operate within family groups with complex power relationships. Under the Bondevik II Government, the Ministry of Justice laid down in Ot.prp nr. 90 for 2003–04 that the principle of damages should be the starting point and the basis for decriminalisation. The most fundamental consequence of the non-compliance principle is that acts that are not suitable for causing injury or risk of injury in our time should be decriminalised. In the case of beggaring, it was considered that the discomfort of general begging could not be caused by passersby, could not be regarded as an injury, and therefore should not qualify for the use of punishment. Int. O. No 10 for 2005-2006, a unanimous judicial committee concluded, although the Committee noted that the number of people who asked for money had increased slightly in the larger cities in recent years. In line with the Stortinget's analysis of the proposal to repeal the Barriers Act, I believe that as a society we should be able to cope with begging. The discomfort that individual citizens may feel in meeting beggars cannot in itself provide the basis for a ban on begging. To the extent that begging is carried out in a way that is illegal for other reasons, typically by the beggar persecuting or threatening passersby, the police have the power to intervene in accordance with police regulations. The rules on order in public places include: set up to ensure health conditions. The interpellant refers to the street picture in Oslo this summer. On my initiative, a comprehensive report from the police has been given over the past few months, and we have seen a situation that was unacceptable. The situation challenged the enforcement of the legislation. I do not know how often the representative Tetzschner is in contact with his own party traps in Oslo. But I took the initiative towards the mayor of a meeting at the end of August this year, and we had an open discussion about these conditions. I perceive that the Municipality of Oslo, through its cooperation with the police and other actors, has a constructive approach to the challenges. I communicated that the government will not impose a ban on begging, but that the state and the municipality must cooperate to dampen the influx of groups that do not actually have the means to legally stay in Norway and that contribute to the disorder of the city. I feel that Oslo Municipality is creative in its approach. One measure could, in my opinion, be that the Municipality of Oslo adopts a reporting obligation for anyone who wants to collect money. Such a registration system, together with a thoughtful police strategy, has proved to be suitable elsewhere to reduce the extent of begging. Together with several other different measures, including: a clearer practice with regard to the issue of work permits and street sales permits can ensure a better prevention of disorder and a better understanding of what needs to be done during a stay in Norway. The Ministry also has an assessment of a legislative change that can allow the police to set a framework for where and when money collection in public places can take place. Cooperation with the Oslo City Council, including on these issues, is constructive. This year, Oslo Police developed guidelines for police management of overnight stays in public places, which helped police enforcement in this area beyond the summer period in a firm and predictable manner. There is access to begging in a public place in Norway. I believe that good further cooperation between the relevant authorities will result in a better situation in the future. I would nevertheless like to welcome all the good input into action, for this situation we will have to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e340	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer – more because a serious response was given than that the city's population and exposed housing routes can once again rejoice with the security of letting children out in their neighbourhoods. There was nothing in the Council of State saying that they wanted to resort to the tools that they had up to a few years ago, and that helped to create security in the city. I would also like to express a never so little wonder at politicians who actually have – initially at least – ahold on the left side, and who think this is entirely right for those families who might live in a little smaller homes, who live in a little closer to the center, and who are very dependent on having the free areas, the common areas, available to their legitimate jobs and for their recreation. This view that beggaring, and what goes with it, as well as being a crop we have to pay in our wealth – that is, it is a crop that is not paid by those who live in orderly houses, but by those who may just be dependent on the functioning of these areas, the nearby urban areas. Then I would also like to say that I keep very close contact with party traps in Oslo, and they do not think reporting is a good idea. There are good reasons why reporting is not a good idea. Firstly, the Police Directorate's letter to the Ministry of Justice on 4 June quoted earlier. For example, for Eastfold, foreign beggars were changed to register. The scheme has not worked satisfactorily, with only a few persons registered — and similar from the South Trondelag police district, which has introduced reporting obligations in compliance with the police regulations, without remedying the problems. You're left with the fact that you're not willing to resort to the simplest tools you had until the changes seven years ago. The reference to settings in this room and previous motives for removing the clauses of the lien law at these points just shows that one has not been willing to follow developments. The second reason why the obligation to notify is not a good idea is that it will be de facto an authorisation of begging, and then you will not have an intervention home, because then you may only be able to intervene with a lack of obligation to notify, and not with the actual basic problem: begging. What I emphasize in this context is that begging does not act as an isolated phenomenon, but is linked to a crime scene – as the Minister of Justice's own offices bid.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e355	The challenge we are discussing here today, I don't think it's worth discussing how to get back to the past, and the debate on the Law of Disposal and the priorities that were re-established around 2004–2006 are valuable considerations to include in how to address this issue in the future. We must be able to prevent crime, and we must also be able to combat crime and address it where it may occur – even if it occurs in the setting we are discussing today. I feel that not least the Oslo police have addressed the disorder of order, along with the municipality, in a completely different way in the recent past than what was done in the past. I also feel that the police are discussing new ways of addressing crime in more police districts, whether it be about profit crime, pocket theft or other forms of crime. The representative Tetzschner referred to the earlier dialogue that took place between the Municipality of Oslo and the Police Directorate, and as the beach. The new initiative that I have taken before the City Council, I have experienced a positive response. That is why we are now discussing both the changes needed in municipal statutes, and the cooperation between the local authorities and the police that can provide the best possible solutions – a registration system combined with a reporting obligation, where we have also addressed the issue of legislative change by saying that we will assess whether it is also right to make a legislative change that opens up a regulation based on time and location. But we're going to have to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e366	I thank you for the interpellation. I think it's important that we can discuss these questions in a concrete way without going into any sort of stigmatisation of any groups, and I think we should be able to do that here today. I have also noticed the features of developments in the last few months that should be taken into account. I saw that the evening had a report a week ago when they had gone through a number of courts in Oslo. There were people who had come here to beg, but who, because of the fact that they didn't earn enough money – it was also said directly – had been involved in crime, winning crimes, etc. I also took part in the case of trafficking in human beings that went to Bergen just before the joint holiday, where at first there is a judgment in the first instance that I believe is appealed. But the main theme worried me because the sentence that fell in the first instance was on trafficking in human beings, forced marriage, rape, and so the defense was put up around the fact that this was culture in that population – that they should therefore not be judged for rape, forcible marriage and trafficking in human beings. When it's justified by culture, I think we need to be aware that as much as you can't say that everyone who's beggars is dealing with crime – not in any way – you can't say that it has no connection at all. We have to do that balance, and I think we have so much evidence that that phase of discussion should be over. Then the question about those who come here will be brought here to beg – no matter what the background. It can be voluntary, it can be organised within a framework where there are traditions, pressures, etc., or it can be more of a form of coercion. How this is compounded, no one has a full overview of it. But I expect everyone to agree that it will be a great advantage both for beggars and for society – everyone else – that we will have measures implemented to reduce beggars and beggars. There are both positive instruments and restrictive instruments available. First of all, a few positive instruments, which I think we should emphasise more: firstly, the comprehensive programme that the European Union is now implementing towards the space population throughout Europe. They must use approx. 17 B.C.E. EUR over four years, and there is a great deal of effort in relation to, inter alia: compulsory schooling. Norway will spend around 2.5 billion. in EEA funds over four years in Romania. It's important for us that these funds are used properly, towards the part of the population that needs the most help, especially the space population. It is also important that they are present and are able to receive the offers, can receive the welfare measures to be built up: school, housing, what is done on the labour market, etc. We also have some voluntary Norwegian organisations that are running projects. There is an interaction between building action in the home country, which I count everyone is positive and supportive of – and having measures to reduce the beggar market here. The question is, how does it decrease? I was a little disappointed with the part of Tetzschner's posts that concerned registration, reporting obligations. I have been involved in this since there was a unanimous decision in Oslo City Council to go in for it in 2010. That's what you wanted. I have heard of good experiences from Trondheim, Bodø and a number of other cities in the country that have a system where you have to report to the police station and register to beg. Those who are here with bad intentions have little willingness to visit the police station and register. Those who have not registered, and nevertheless sit and beg the next day – then the police should do their job to expel them and impose fines on them that do not comply with the reporting obligation and the registration system. In those cases where this has not worked, it may be due to weaknesses in that effort. The number of beggars in Trondheim has been on, as I have seen, 10–15 pieces – a completely different situation than in Oslo. With regard to the possibility of limiting begging in local police regulations, it is a proposal that I think the representative Tetzschner argues well – the interaction between local authorities and the police in terms of seeing the local challenge, addressing it there and then, and that there is no need to have a general, nationwide ban because the situation is so different in different municipalities. It is a proposal similar to what the Labour Party in Oslo has promoted and argued for, and now adopted at its annual meeting, and for which the Government and the Council of State now confirm their assessment. This is an interesting approach to finding an intermediate solution, between the general prohibition and the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e383	I think the representative Bøhler spoke well. Much of what was said, we fully agree. But it is now that if foreigners beg in Norway, there is something wrong with the social and not least economic network in the country they come from. Then it is that immediate action does not actually solve the problem. We have to think about long-term solutions – it's required. We also know that in some cultures, begging has a connection with the way people live. They can live as nomads in the countries and cultures where there are historical and geographical prerequisites for it, but not in industrialised and money-based societies like this in Norway. That is why the poverty issue is international. It must be resolved bilaterally and multilaterally, and cooperation between both nations and between religious and humanitarian organisations, preferably in the country of origin of the individual, must be ensured. What I said now was part of what was stated in Document 8:71 S of the Progress Party for 2011-2012, which was promoted in 2011. We have seen – since this proposal was promoted and voted down – how it is going on, especially in the summer, when it comes to begging. Neither the proposal for which the representative, Mr Tetzschner, speaks well – to make a local ban from city to city or from place to place – nor what the Labour Party has as its main – i.e. reporting obligation – cannot be seen to solve the problem. For the individual beggars, Norway has already arrived, and it is really just a shift of the problems. Because if you're not allowed to beg in Oslo, well, where are they going to be? Did anyone think they were going out of the country again? No, they're going to the next municipality. Then you'll get an accumulation in e.g. The drama. And we can't serve to force these peoples on an eternal journey around the whole country. We have to start by helping these groups that need help, primarily in their home country. It's human. When the Justice Committee was in Romania, we visited various organisations that worked with the problems of the Roma. The representative, Mr Bøhler, was about this: how can we help these groups, both in establishing good housing conditions, in establishing schooling, etc.? This does not help Norway to allow it to beg here. Then it's actually lucrative to borrow children, borrow the neighbor's children, steal children and take them to Norway: take them out of school, take them out of the safe environment they're in, to use them here because there's money to earn from them. It's also the way organized crime is committed under the cover of begging. And even though someone might come to Norway in good faith and think that they can serve for life's stay with begging, many of them end up in organized crime. These are weak groups that are pretty good for moaning. We have to get action in our home country. I come from the South, and in Kristiansand a public sanitary wreck was built that was put on the dock. It has also created a debate. Because we're making such a 'we' and 'de' debate – those who beg will not be allowed to use public toilets; they will have to go in a wreck specially made for them. Isn't that going to be a discrimination? That debate has at least rolled down the South, and there are many aspects of it that I think more people should look at and take care of. That is why, in the Progress Party, we have discussed the events of summer. We have discussed the increase that has occurred, and we maintain our view that it should be a complete ban throughout the country. Then we're going to be willing to look at different measures with our EEA funds and with other means to solve the problems in each individual home country. Therefore, we have to impose a ban on begging in public places, and then the option – until this becomes a reality – is given to each local authority to regulate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e400	It was a fantastic piece of interpellant, my colleague, held to combat crime. But the conclusion was a little bit strange. He didn't even ask for measures to combat crime, he didn't ask for more police, he didn't ask for more money, he didn't ask for law enforcement – nothing. He came straight into a ban on begging. But it is also a little strange that he does not ask to ban begging. He called for local politicians to be given the opportunity to ban urban begging. And there the representative Åse Michaelsen has a very valid point: why should we do it so that we push people from city to city, from municipality to municipality? Why does not the Right – just as the Progress Party does – present a proposal in this Chamber to ban begging in general across the country? I hope that the representative will help us to understand this, because we are not able to do that with such an inexorable practice. I've been working on this problem for a long time. I have visited Bergen, and, along with the police, went to Bergen City. They have started – just as the representative Jan Bøhler was in – registering people who want to collect money or beg in the city. As a result, those who have pure flour in the bag remain in town, they come, register and beg. Those who have dirty flour in the bag disappear. So we're going to solve one problem, the criminals, they're going out of town. And those who need help are standing there begging. I understand that the representative Michael Tetzschner is simply against this. Those who support a ban are at the same time trying to draw a picture of the beggars, both as victims of human trafficking and as a threat. They believe that the criminalisation of begging is the solution to both problems. This is inconsistent and not based on facts. There is no documented link between trafficking in human beings, organised crime and begging, although individual cases where this has occurred need to be taken seriously and combated by criminal policies. As long as Norway is in Schengen, all EU citizens have the right to stay in Norway. A ban on begging therefore does not mean that those who have come from Eastern Europe today to beg in Norway are going home. Whether the result is that these people – when they are criminalised in any case – resort to more profitable forms of crime, or that the number of block-flute street musicians is uncertain and does not seem to be relevant to those who support a ban. There are no quick solutions to get rid of the beggars in Oslo or elsewhere in the country, or in the world for that matter, at least not so long as a political majority does not want us to have control of our borders. The Solubility Act became unnecessary in its time because solutions were found to the social problems that led to begging. The solution was and is education, work, housing and sustenance. Although social problems now have to be solved on a much larger scale than this, this is still the only way to counteract the causes of people choosing to beg.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e413	There are constant debates on whether to beg in Norway or to be banned and, where appropriate, on how to regulate begging. The issue is topical. The influx of foreign beggars has been high in recent years. The so-called Law on Disposal was repealed by an overall increase in 2005. From 1 July 2006, it was legal to beg in Norway. There is a clear link between the lifting of the ban and the increase in the number of beggars. Tigging spreads not only in Oslo and other major cities, but also in the country. The tigers show up outside shops, in ferries and on the doors at people's homes. There's fear in many people. It's uncomfortable to be visited like this at home by strangers. There have also been episodes in which older people have been brutally robbed and subjected to violence because they would not contribute. There is certainly no reason to claim that the majority of those begging at the doors will steal in addition. At the same time, it is understandable that many fears that it is, and become unsafe. All the time when a general beg ban is not imposed, pressure is created on the municipalities to take a greater responsibility for making people feel safe in their own homes. The main efforts to prevent poverty and beggaring domestically and in other countries must, of course, be social measures and not criminal policy instruments. Norway contributes, inter alia: through EEA cooperation. The goal must be that as much as possible find other ways to serve for life's stay than to beg. Then it helps little that begging is lawful. It makes it less interesting to find a job. There are examples of parents teaching kids to beg instead of encouraging them and helping them to go to school. Unfortunately, many young people are not allowed to undertake training even if the offer is there. In addition — and there is reason to stress the seriousness of — beggaring creates a legal market for organised begging, where backers serve the needs of other people. Whether it's an unknown backman or an uncle who forces others to beg, it doesn't make a big difference to them, whether they're adults or kids. The police in Bergen and Hordaland have also made a good effort to combat trafficking in human beings, and they want begging to be banned again. The centre party is occupied by municipal autonomy and local democracy. We have programmed that begging should be banned again, but as long as it does not, we believe that other measures need to be implemented. It must be made possible for municipalities to regulate begging themselves. The mountains and other cities have introduced notification obligations for beggars. It has contributed to fewer beggars there. Still, we see that many places are increasing again after a time. There may be different instruments involved. The obligation to notify is one of them, which is to give municipalities the opportunity to decide whether, where and when to beg. We believe the municipalities should have that opportunity. Furthermore, the Ministry of Justice has stated that it is necessary to assess whether it is possible to prevent the admission of people who cannot demonstrate that they can support themselves during their stay. The centre party supports such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e432	The interpellant addresses important issues that address people in great need. We have good arrangements here in Norway, which will basically ensure that you do not beg for money. But life is quite different for us people, and the reasons why a person chooses to beg, or has to beg, can be abusing, poverty, trafficking in human beings, organized crime, or other major challenges. It is therefore very important that, when we debate a matter like this, we get the different shades of the matter with us, and that we don't get naive either. We need to see the matter both with the eyes of the individual and with the eyes of society. The interpellant justifies its prohibition of begging that many beggars may be exposed to trafficking in human beings. It's a legitimate claim. In Bergen there have been cases in court, as others have also been involved, where backers have been convicted of trafficking in human beings. The police in Bergen have imposed a ban on the registration of beggars and that they must have ID cards on them. In this way, the police have been given a good overview of different environments, and we have been exposed to cases of trafficking in human beings. A ban on begging can make those who are at risk of trafficking even more invisible to the police, which may be entirely contrary to their purpose. Unfortunately, trafficking in human beings is a major challenge, both internationally and here in Norway. According to UNESCO, there are probably as many as 27 million people living in slavery in the world today. Children are held as sex slaves in Cambodia, child soldiers in Uganda, people living in forced labour in India, prostitutes in Moldova or domestic slaves in France. Women, young people and minorities are particularly vulnerable, and it is not only in other countries that they commit injustice. Children, women and men are also exploited for forced labour, prostitution, begging and crime here in Norway. The Christian People's Party has been concerned about this issue for a long time, and has put this on the agenda here in the Stortinget through proposals from representatives, interpellations and written questions. As an example, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal to introduce an anti-slavery day to raise awareness of this important issue both to governments and to individual citizens. Unfortunately, this proposal was defeated – the Justice Committee was unanimous. Although I disagree with the inter-pellant proposal, I am nevertheless pleased that the fight against trafficking in human beings is being put on the agenda, so that we have the opportunity to debate this important issue. Combating trafficking in human beings is about the fight for freedom, independence, equality and human dignity. In that case, criminalisation of people is not in the way of going – in that fight, we need other means than what is proposed here. What is needed is increased competence in this area and enhanced international cooperation at both national and organisational level. Last week, the Children came out with a report on the trafficking of children in human beings, which referred to child protection knowledge and work with children exploited in trafficking in human beings. That report shows that child protection itself wants more knowledge about identifying potential victims of trafficking in human beings. Raising the competence of child-restraint workers is therefore very important, but it is not just child-restraint that requires more knowledge. Research in the field will therefore be central in further efforts to ensure that the fight against trafficking in human beings is solved with good measures. It is also worth mentioning that Save Children or other organisations working for people in need have not even expressed the desire for a ban on begging. Other measures may help us to get a step closer to a solution, but it requires, as I said, both competence and knowledge. We want to focus more on this theme, and the Christian People's Party will therefore make its own proposal in the fight against trafficking in human beings later this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e449	I think, to be absolutely honest, that there's a strange debate, where you're squeezing together incredibly difficult issues and trying to make them sound simple. It also contains formulations that I think are scary, where you talk about children being afraid of some ethnic groups, where you talk about some people who are different from others. The Holocaust Center conducted a survey here in the spring that showed that 56 pst. of the Norwegian population would not have wanted a roommate as a neighbour. I do not think it is the job of the Norwegian Parliament to ensure that such attitudes spread. Here, links are drawn that the police do not have the basis to do either. We're members of the EEA. This means that there are amazingly many highly educated people from Europe who come and save Norwegian business. But that also means that the criminals who act in Europe come to Norway. And that means that the poor who do not see a future in their country come to Norway. Now this is being freshened together – whether it's the Romanians, or whether it's the Romanians. As long as they're observed in the same house, they're the same group. We are supposed to fight international crime. Obviously, we must combat trafficking in human beings. It is in Oslo that pocket theft has appeared as a sheltered industry that the police are not investigating. Fortunately, it's turning around. I have talked a lot with our sister parties in the EU in connection with human trafficking, also because our sister party in Sweden is sitting with the Commissioner in this area, Cecilia Malmström. She can tell that no stream of space people who are traffickers in Europe has been detected. The Rome people who are traffickers in Europe are not Romanian citizens – they are from outside the EU, that's why they become traffickers. Lell's statement in this hall is used as a stamp for it. The Council of State says that the EU does not care about this. At least the EU has set up its own strategy for better integration of Roma, while Norway will not even help the Salvation Army when the Salvation Army wants to create projects in Romania for this particular group. You can see that the only solution to this is a beg ban. There is hardly any other country in Europe that has a beggar ban, just for information. The European countries that have tried it have turned around. The Netherlands tried, and found out that it only led to the child tag instead, because children are under the criminal lavalier. Can't we learn anything from Europe, then? Are there no lessons from there that we can bring to Norway? I mean, it's an honest thing to want to stretch out a hand if you're in need. I get much less bored with it than with all the sellers I'm exposed to on the way up Karl Johan. It's quite strange that a hand from a needy person we're going to ban, while an aid organization can stand two quarters further down and collect money for the same person. The police have a lot of tools. And sail if you're for begging, that doesn't mean you're too mad by older ladies, as it sounds like here in the hall. The police have a lot of tools. There are laws against the fury of older ladies. These are the laws to be enforced. Don't make any new bans! There's a lot of talk about stealing kids from a safe environment. Is there anyone who's been in the area that's supposed to be a safe environment where you steal kids from? Stories tell that you have to take care of your pets because they are beheaded and grilled with rats on disposable grills around the city. Has anyone heard those stories before? No one can prove it in Oslo. But they went before the war too. Then they were not attached to the Roma, but they were linked to a completely different ethnic group. We see when such prejudices are cultivated, what it ends with. That's how poverty can bring crime. We're part of Europe. We also become part of European poverty. Then we must deal with it and not prohibit it. Then we have to find solutions for those people and not prohibit them. Then we need to work with Europe to find solutions for those peoples. It seems here in the hall that you feel sorry for the dick with the sulphur sticks and do it by banning the sale of sulphur sticks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e473	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter. It's not the first time it's here in Stortinget, and it probably won't be the last. The last time, it was a completely dismayed minister of justice who thought that the undersigned was almost racist. Several of the representatives have been in Bergensaken, and it is great that some judges have actually been given on human trafficking in Bergen. I've been talking to that department at the Bergen Police Chamber that's responsible for organized crime, and they say that there's only one of five things they have the opportunity to investigate. Lack of resources and an extremely expensive investigation means that you don't have the opportunity to investigate any more, and what we see is just the top of an iceberg. In addition, it can be mentioned that in Bergen one of the witnesses disappeared because he was sent home pending legal proceedings. So everything's not as pink. I wish we could have better statistics. Governments indicate that children are used for begging in Europe. Yes, that's true, and it's totally unacceptable, as unacceptable as that prostitution is associated with begging, and all this is human trafficking. There are cynical backers who send disabled people to Norway — they cannot send children to Norway, because they will be taken from here. This is not happening elsewhere in Europe. In Norway, disabled people and the elderly are used, and children and women are used in other countries. This is organized, and it's well-directed. This is trafficking in human beings and completely unacceptable. The representative Tetzschner refers to Europol’s report, which shows that begging and prostitution are linked. Yes, because all this is about organized crime, it's about trafficking in human beings at the most. The representative Chaudhry says that there is no evidence that begging and prostitution are linked. Well, it does. The representative, Mr Tetzschner, just pointed out in his main speech that Europol had produced a report. It is on the basis of the report submitted by Europol that the Council of Europe has a case on this matter and is in fact considering a Convention on the Prohibition of Trafficking in Human Beings, which includes begging. The Council of Europe has already taken a decision to condemn trafficking in human beings, such as begging, prostitution or other criminal acts. It turns out – as the representative Skei Grande says – that very many of the people who are being "trapped" here to the country and to the rest of Europe are aliens who have no relation. They are Europe's largest minority, 27 million people. The Council of Europe has made proposals. We have proposed to contribute to projects where we can actually give the space people a passport, an ID, a connection to a country, and thus also ensure that the children are followed up and given an opportunity to go to school. At best, it may be naive to think that disabled children and old people are going to get into Europe because they are poor. I think it is really terrible that we have this debate. We should condemn all forms of human trafficking, whether it be disabled, elderly, children – or whether it was just to beg. The only thing that works is a ban. We've suggested it before, and I wouldn't be surprised if this would come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e488	There has been a thought-provoking debate, and many of the contributions have stimulated both emotions and intellect. If it wasn't for the representative Skei Grande having left the hall, I might spend some more time commenting on her posts. I can say, as a summary, that the facts she argues against and responds a little bit to being presented here in the Chamber are, of course, the facts that the police and the Police Directorate have put together in a report, which has been sent from the Police Directorate to the Minister of Justice. Then again, I have to stop a little by the fact that the country's Minister of Justice does not have an executive and offensive capacity to at least address a problem area as clearly described, as the Police Directorate has done here. It is not just Europol reports from the past, so now there is a letter from the Minister of Justice on the table of 4 June. I could imagine how the Council of State has intended to deal with that letter – whether it is being answered or sent out at all. Now I see that the red-green government may have some problems, but I actually found greater satisfaction with the representative of Bohemia in his posts. He was willing at least to discuss aspects of this – even though we may not agree fully whether it is enough just to have a zone delimitation in Oslo. I think that a minimum must be that we start by being able to write into the city's police regulations that this we don't want in our city. And then maybe by choosing a slightly different approach, you can learn from each other. Then I have to quote again why the reporting obligation is not going to work, except that it will be a de facto authorisation. For me, it is as natural to authorize beggars as to give professional letters to tags. In the South Trøndelag police district, they say that they have ‘implemented reporting obligations in compliance with the police regulations’, but they state: ‘The action has not had the intended effect. to limit the activity, or to provide us with a better overview of the number of beggars and/or their identity in the city at all times’. So you can try this out, but it's not going to show up. So this is that yes, we get to take the serious crime, and there are organized things like that in Bergen. What everyone knows is that behind a correction there are many dark numbers. So the question is whether we want our streets and places to be marketplaces for the international beggar industry – and then say that we get to take some. It's a very poor consolation. I don't want to hesitate to characterize it as a passive contribution to an international begging industry we're not meant to have in a welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e508	There is an important debate the inter-pellant has taken up, and there was also some of the background for me to produce the value base that this room brought with it in the debate a few years ago. The Bondevik II government presented the proposal, and after the change of government, Stortinget unanimously concluded that the principle of damages should be taken into account even when discussing the issue of allowing begging or not. This is a basis for further discussion on these issues as well, and I hear that, fortunately, there is little current non-confidential perception of what action is going on – although there are clear voices calling for a beg ban already now, and the basis for consensus has been forgotten a few years ago. I am also of the opinion that it is difficult to adhere to the definition of ‘implementation force’, as Tetzschner uses the word. I find that there is a lack of implementation unless measures are implemented as Tetzschner would have liked them, and that the recommendation that comes from an underlying agency such as the Police Directorate cannot be challenged either. The letter has been answered, with the initiative I have taken against the City Council in Oslo, and I experience a pragmatic approach from the City Council, which also in itself helps to illustrate the discussion that we know not least takes place in the Right, linked to whether or not a beg ban is a right instrument. This is a demanding discussion, and the main challenge may not be the begging itself, but part of the demanding conditions that are also well-lit in the hall today, and where it is necessary for the police to use a set of measures. When it comes to trafficking in human beings at one end and a question of order challenges in the other, it is necessary for us to ask ourselves whether a beg ban is a proper instrument. So these are the questions we'll obviously have the opportunity to discuss in this room in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e517	Then there's case no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e531	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e545	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e551	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e6465	During the debate, Mr Chaudhry, Member of the Presidency, put forward two proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Annual compensation increase for 2012 for grossing-up representatives, prime ministers and government councils is set at SEK 19,958, corresponding to the annual average crown supplement for full-time positions in Norway. In accordance with this, the Storting agrees to the fixing of the following allowances with effect from 1 May 2012: Stortingsrepresentativeskr794 167 per. yearMembers of Government1 121 337 per year yearMinistry of State1 372 237 per year years’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The evolution of the remuneration of grossing-up representatives, state councils and prime minister is determined on the basis of annual average krone supplement in Norway.’ These proposals are being voted on. The voting boards showed that 91 votes were cast against and 11 votes in favour of the proposals of the member of the Presidency Akhtar Chaudhry. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.27.47]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e6517	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e6522	Since several of them have clearly voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e6534	The President will remind you that it is mandatory to vote. The Presidency had cancelled: The majority agrees to the fixing of the following allowances with effect from 1 May 2012: Storting representativeskr811 505 per. yearMembers of the Government1 158 927 per year 1 425 352 per year years
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e6581	In Case No. No voting theme is available. Voting in Case No 5 and 6
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e6587	Case No. 5 and 6 are the second time legal proceedings. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-16.ana.ud593e6695	As a result, today's business card has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
