ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e119	The representatives Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Borghild Tenden, Dagfinn Høybråten, Øyvind Waksdal, Erling Sande, Per-Willy Amundsen and Lars Aegean, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Ivar Kristiansen, Sverre Myrli and Tore Nordtun on leave from 10 December until 12 December to take part in the Transatlantic Forum of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington from the Group of the Progressive Party on the leave of the representative Morten Höglund from 10 December until 14 December to take part in meetings of the Committee of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Washington from the representative Anders B. Werp on parental leave from 10 December until 13 January; These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of Akershus County, Tone Liljeroth and Tom Staahle respectively, there are applications for exemption from meeting in the Stortinge under Morten Højlund's leave, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund from 10 to 12. from 10 to 14 December and Knut Tønnesen's Steenersen from 10 to 14. December For Buskerud County: Elizabeth Skogrand from 10 December to 10. January For Nordland County: Jonni Helge Solsvik and Kari Storstrand from 10 to 12. December For Rogaland County: Laila Thorsen from the 10th to the 12th. December
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e219	Anita Orlund, Knut Tønnes Steenersen, Elizabeth Skogrand, Kari Storstrand and Laila Thorsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e225	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President allows himself to propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals do not appear to be available, and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is considered unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e235	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e238	On behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Anders Anundsen, Kenneth Svendsen, Jørund Rytman and myself, I would like to put forward a draft representative on improved procedures in the case of tax complaints.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e243	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 17, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President will also propose that today's Stortinget meeting be suspended at 9 p.m. 11.30 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 3:30 p.m. and continue outwards. 16 until the current map has been completed. No objections have been raised against this. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e408	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be a change of line of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e417	Today we are dealing with the law on the Central Collection of the State, hereinafter referred to as SI. SI has gradually developed a wide-ranging contact area with debtors, contracting entities and other public authorities. An activity of the scope and nature of SI today should have a clear and easily accessible legal framework. Today, the legal rules applicable to SI are scattered in a number of laws, regulations and instructions. As a result, it may be difficult to obtain a comprehensive overview of the legislation governing the central government collection centre. The main provision on SI is currently in the Criminal Procedures Act. Fines and other claims admitted to criminal proceedings are an important area of enforcement for SI, but they represent a decreasing proportion of the requirements SI is responsible for collecting them. It therefore appears to be unnatural that central parts of the basis for SI’s activities are regulated by the Criminal Procedures Act. The legal clarification needed in the different areas of SI’s activities should be outside the criminal proceedings law. A significant number of debtors come into contact with the institution each year. Measures taken there can have a major impact on the individual debtor. The majority of the Committee considers that due to the legal certainty of the debtor, the best possible overall regulation of the activities of the SI should be provided. That's what we're doing today with a law for the state collection center. SI is a government administrative body which must be subject to an administrative framework. It is important that SI is subject to procedural rules that facilitate the safe handling of each case and that the legal certainty of the debtor is ensured. The Administrative Act is designed to take care of most administrative matters. The law includes, inter alia: rules on stability, on the obligation to provide guidance, on professional secrecy, on alerts, on the transparency of parties, on complaints and on conversion. The majority of the Committee considers it natural that SI should be subject to the administrative law, given that the main purpose of the administrative law is to ensure legal certainty for private parties when management deals with matters of major importance to them. In the majority's view, it is natural, as proposed, that there is a separate provision that says that the Administrative Act applies and that SI should act in line with good collection practices. During the consultation rounds before the law was drawn up, and in an open hearing here in Stortingen in connection with the Committee's consideration of the matter, differing views have emerged. In particular, differing views have emerged on SI's relationship with the collection law, set-off, SI's special jurisdiction, the relationship with the enforcement law and late payment interest rates. In the opinion of the majority, the objections raised have been taken care of, and it is recalled that the main purpose of the law is to bring together the rules on out-of-court enforcement of the SI and to provide for detention in the enforcement law instead of the current rules of the Criminal Procedures Act. This makes the rules more accessible and transparent to the public, in the view of the majority. This increases legal certainty. Finally, a few words about a joyful change for many people who have problems getting the compensation they are awarded in connection with criminal offences such as drug abuse. the offence of rape. The SI is now allowed to extend its powers to claim damages as a result of criminal offences convicted in civil proceedings outside criminal proceedings. The proposal today involves equal treatment for injured parties irrespective of whether the claim has been convicted in criminal proceedings or in a subsequent civil case. I now present the matter, so the minority in the Committee will present its views and promote its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e434	The law we are dealing with today, the SI Act, is, in the view of the Progress Party, so flawed that we propose that the proposition be sent back to the government for new treatment. An overall opposition is behind this proposal. In many cases, public money recovers hazards disproportionately unbalanced and uncompromisingly. This has been repeatedly documented, for example: through the former proposal of the representative of the Progress Party on the position of taxpayers. The Progress Party has raised on several occasions issues in which the State is acting critically against tax payers. We have made proposals for representatives with a view to improving the position of taxpayers in disputes and in debt matters. We have made proposals to eliminate the difference between private and public creditors in terms of late payment fees, and we have made proposals aimed at improving legal certainty for taxpayers. It is sad that the state continues its irreconcilable approach. The Progress Party has recently received a number of enquiries from people who feel overwhelmed by the public. Some have even had their lives ruined. It is a shame that creative and creative people are turned into debt slaves for what may initially have been minor and temporary payment problems. Of course, the public should receive the money it requires through the taxes, taxes, customs duties, fees and fines. So we are not discussing here the reasonableness of neither taxes nor taxes, but the method used by the public to collect the sums due. Today’s practice is, in several cases, a disgrace in the legal state of Norway. The state behaves uncompromisingly, and this could be seen as frightening and threatening, as the strength relationship between the parties is different to those degrees. Nor should it be forgotten that the state can tailor laws and regulations to its needs, and the corresponding weakens the position of the debtor. Only in the last week the Progress Party has been contacted by two taxpayers who have both got their lives put on hold. In one case, the tax return of the State has been for more than 25 years. The Progress Party is therefore very sceptical about the sementing of the practice around the central government collection centre, and we believe that development should be directed towards SI following the rules of the collection law in the same way as other debt collection companies. The central government collection centre invoices more than one million claims and decides about one million. 180 000 move this year according to the Annual Report 2011. This means that only 17,5 pst. the establishment is a traditional enforcement operation. The remainder is billing, debt management and debt collection. On this basis, the activity appears to be Norway’s largest collection agency. Many of the hearing bodies are also critical of the legislative proposal submitted. In its letter of consultation, the Oslo Food Agency mentions that in principle all food operations should be carried out by an independent body. This is an opinion Progress Party parts. The Oslo Executive Agency further states: ‘This concerns the principles of the rule of law, the legitimacy and framework of use of power, as well as the relationship between state, citizen and business. Such assessments are few evidence in the file. It should not be the case that SI is given the interpretative competence only because it is practical for them to send invoices. Under the direct recovery system, any invoice may in principle be the basis of coercion. Please note that the proposal does not deny that SI as a specialist should be able to use the possibility of direct recovery on the basis of the invoice [[...]] The Progress Party agrees with this. The Association of Norwegian Debt Collection Agencies states the following: ‘The scheme of officers, as built up in the context of state and municipal promotion activities, has an inquisitorial character and is initially a gust of the past. Norway is, as far as is known, the only country in Scandinavia where the special function of public claims is maintained.’ In view of the fact that all four opposition parties believe that today's draft SI law should not be adopted, but should be returned to the government for more thorough consideration, the government assumes great responsibility by pressing the law. That several of the hearing bodies also reject the law makes the urgency of the government even less understandable. I take this up with me the proposals the Progress Party is promoting alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e474	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e477	The right is of the opinion that this proposition lacks significant discussions and that alternatives to the law are either not mentioned at all or are not mentioned in a deficient way. In sum, we believe that the whole matter should be sent back to the government for a new treatment. The right is not necessarily opposed to a separate law of the central government collection centre. We disagree with how the government has worked on the matter. The right-wing believe that the central government collection centre is doing a good and important job on behalf of all of us. Although the work is probably not of the highest priority, there is a very important job done on behalf of all residents in Norway — on behalf of the state, taxpayers and creditors. The central government collection centre in Mo in Rana is doing the job in a good and effective way. The right-wing criticism in this case has been solely on the government's overall work in this matter. It has made it difficult to bring the Storting together to agree on what else could be a better treatment in Stortinget. So today, it's not a separate law for the central government, it's governed in other ways. Anyone who carries on debt collection activities today does so after the authorisation of the Financial Supervisory Authority. This does not apply to the central government collection centre, although in my view it would be quite easy to obtain this approval. Similarly, the bill states that the government wants the SI not to be operated under the debt collection law in respect of the procurement activity, but according to good debt collection practices based on the Administrative Act. The right has called for a broader assessment of this and indicates that a large number of consultation opinions highlight this issue, which has not been adequately commented on in the government’s assessment. The bill maintains and expands SI's role as a stranger. This means that SI can and should be both an in cash collector, creditor’s representative, judge and the Board of Appeal, and in addition, the Ministry of Finance is the Supreme Board of Appeal. The Namsman function shall be objective and safeguard the interests of both parties. I've been hurting to see that the system that the government is putting up with is doing just that. It has caused the Right to be concerned about the legal certainty of the debtors in this regard. We have also registered that the scheme of a stranger is not used in our neighbouring country, and lacks an assessment of whether the general convict, including for example. locality, could carry out the same tasks. But that doesn't mention the government. Large parts of SI's call activities are not really different from the one that, for example: the 112 – or more or less – collection agencies in the private sector do, or not least the 350 municipal and inter-municipal collection agencies, the cash registers, do. Against this background, the Right finds it strange that the legislative proposal does not discuss the existence of alternatives to today's call for proposals and the tasks which, if appropriate, should not, possibly not, be competitive. It's not mentioned at all. Right-wing believes this is a great weakness with the government's proposal. A distinction between calling and development tasks could lead to better performance in both businesses, but also to increased privacy and legal certainty. The legislative proposal opens up the competence of the SI to make compulsory coverage also for simple money requirements, in the right light of public requirements. It makes the impression to read e.g. – and the representative Tybring-Gjedde also referred to something – the hearing opinion to the Namsmann in Oslo, which characterises this as follows: ‘Letting the creditor himself enforce a pledge is comparable to refraining from judicial proceedings in criminal matters for the sake of efficiency.’ We are also not convinced of the government's argument. Several consultation opinions point out that the State has some inviting advantages at the expense of other creditors’ ability to cover. The legislative proposal to the government does not provide sufficient justification why state claims in ordinary debt collection cases, in addition to debt collection by enforcement, are to be distributed in the competition for debtor funds. This is not even mentioned in the case. Furthermore, the right has noted that the government believes that extended powers in the bill will make it easier for the central government collection centre and the Ministry of Finance. It could be. It's not always that the simplest is the best, but often it can be. In sum, the right is a little in doubt about the government's way of doing this, and therefore we want the case back again. We promote six proposals together with the Christian People's Party, to get a broader discussion of the impact on privacy, an assessment of how to operate under the debt collection law, an assessment of benefits and disadvantages by disclosing the calling entity an assessment of the outsourced and outsourced collection tasks, an assessment of whether the special purpose purpose vehicle should be subject to an assessment of whether the late interest rate law should also apply to requirements requested by the central government collection agency. These proposals from the Right and Christian People's Party have thus been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e531	The representative of Arve Kambe has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e534	The proposal to establish an autonomous legal basis for the collection tasks of the central government collection centre is appropriate. Until today, SI’s collection tasks are regulated by 30 different special laws. Each new task has prescribed its own legislative procedure. That doesn't make sense. However, I do not reject the fact that there may be relevant objections to the establishment of a special law for the central government collection centre. The objections are partly linked to the fact that the central government collection centre is largely responsible for solving tasks that might as well have been covered by other enterprises in the collection industry. The private operators in the industry would like to see them get a greater share of the calls that SI today solves on behalf of public creditors. That's an understandable argument from the debt collection agency's side. However, there is not necessarily an argument that prejudges the parties' interests. Another objection I think we should listen carefully to is the one about the debtors' legal certainty and the requirement that all debt collection operations, as well as out-of-court collection and enforcement, should be carried out in a defensive manner. Good debt collection practices shall be complied with by all actors in the collection industry, regardless of whether the business is permitted in the debt collection solov or in a special law of the central government collection centre. The Financial Committee’s hearing showed that there are critical voices for the establishment of a special law for the Central Collection of the State. We're going to listen to the objections that were raised. It has to be done by ensuring that the legal basis for SI properly serves the interests of legal security. I mean, they're well-managed in a satisfactory way. However, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Finance has a special responsibility to follow developments carefully to ensure that SI’s business is continued after the intentions of Stortinget’s current legal proceedings. KS has drawn up a question that I would like to follow up on. They indicate that the SI Act empowers the Ministry to attach, by regulation, SI tasks related to tax requirements imposed on it. KS suggests that the bill is not a first step towards centralising the tax collection. Let me underline from the Center Party's side: it is important to hold back the role of municipalities as tax collectors. It's in the municipalities the local knowledge is. We have very good experience in the way they solve their problems. The SI Act opens up the possibility for victims of violence to receive assistance in the recovery of legal compensation for personal injury, regardless of whether the claim is settled in criminal or civil proceedings. This will be of great help to many who have suffered personal injury after election and who are now entitled to assistance from the central government collection centre in demanding compensation for the victims of violence. The majority point out in their comments that the introduction of the law on the central government collection centre is largely a continuation of the current law, but that work will be more effective. Now, in my article, I have underlined the importance of ensuring legal certainty, and that the Ministry of Finance has the power to give additional tasks to SI through a regulation, so that it does not change the established and good distribution of tasks. Then we could discuss this matter even more closely, as the opposition here has pointed out, but I think that if they care about me now, they should be taken care of, Stortinget should support a separate law on the central government debt collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e549	I agree with what has been said by the other opposition parties about criticism of the government's proposal for a new SI law. For the Left, this is about important questions of principle. It is about the principles of the rule of law, the legitimacy of the use of power and the framework and the relationship between state, citizens and business. Such assessments are few evidence of the arguments of the government and government parties. Instead, it is argued that the proposed changes are practical and appropriate. The proposal of the government, supported by the government parties, is simply weakly justified and poorly investigated, as the Left sees it, and impossible to completely overlook the consequences of it. The desire to continue and strengthen a system in which the central body of the State must be both the body of collection, the representative of the creditor, the judge and, to a certain extent, the Board of Appeal is at best of concern, as the representative, Mr Kambe, was. It is a system that is uncontrollable and very low in transparency and that throws normal legal certainty overboard. What the government calls ‘essentially a technical audit’ is, in fact, to deprive Norwegian citizens of fundamental legal certainty by effectively abolishing the possibility of complaint, and, to the extent possible, the rules are so twisted that legal assistance will be necessary for most. To put it that way: had we had a rule board, as the Left has proposed repeatedly here in the Stortinget, this is an example of a legislative amendment that would never have passed the Board of Governors. It would have been sent back with a message that the purpose is unclear, and that it is too poorly investigated. A good example of the lack of understanding of the relationship between citizen and state and the consequences of the new proposal is the Minister of Finance's answer to question No. 4 from the Party of Advancement, concerning debtors who feel ill-treated. The Councils of State, among other things, correspond to this.\t\t You can change the settings ‘If the object of the recovery proceedings is to deal with matters relating to the activities of SI, provision must be made for this to be either included in the draft law on the central collection centre of the State or in the collection agency law. I do not believe that the latter has been given the right not to apply to SI." As a result, access to justice for people who feel that they are being treated improperly is inappropriate in the government's understanding of the law. The left of course believes that it is both legitimate and important that the public receive the money they claim. But uncompromising and hard-handed collection, often of contentious demands, is contrary to the sense of justice. This is particularly true when the strength relationship between the parties is different to the degrees, with the state as the great, strong party, with laws and regulations tailored to their needs – or appropriateness, as the government likes to call it. The left is sceptical about strengthening, cementing and accepting the practice of the central government collection centre through the decision of the majority today. We also believe that the development should be directed towards SI complying with the rules of the debt collection law, in line with other debt collection companies. It's just 17.5 pst. of SI's enforcement activities in the traditional sense. The remainder is billing, debt management and debt collection. Against this background, the activity appears to be Norway's largest collection agency and should therefore be treated as other collection agency, and not for practical reasons obtain a separate law that gives SI completely different rules and ‘benefits’ than other collection agency companies. Instead of a separate special law for SI, we should repeal the special arrangements applicable to SI, and separate the Enquiry Centre's contracting entity from its own activities subject to the Collection Company Act and the Personal Information Act's rules on the collection of information. There are considerable legal and data protection gains in non-discrimination between private, state and municipal calling activities. Finally, I would like to quote from the expert opinion of the Oslo Food Agency to the Financial Committee, where they write: ‘Letting the creditor himself enforce a pledge is comparable to refraining from judicial proceedings in criminal matters for the sake of efficiency.’ This sums up in a good way why the Left votes against the law. The left puts people first, not that it has to be practical and appropriate for the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e583	I can largely agree with what has been said by the opposition earlier in this debate. The central authority of the state is doing an important job in many respects, but this bill seems to have earned us a better deal – not from the SI, they are getting extended powers in a wide range of areas, but with regard to a debate about which authority, what means of transport, what ways you can drive from the state to get your money. The representative Tenden mentioned the nominee in Oslo and the hearing opinion he had. I have to say that it's one of the most clear hearings I've attended, when it comes to saying clearly that you feel completely overwhelmed by the government's proposition and what is probably going to get a majority here today. Of course, it's strong when the man in Oslo says, ‘Letting the creditor himself enforce a pledge is comparable to refraining from judicial proceedings in criminal matters for the sake of efficiency.’ Maybe it's going to be a long way, but there's something about how many sides of the table you're going to sit. Here we find in the Christian People's Party that you have gone very far in that SI sits on most sides of the table. I do not think so, and I must say that the government and the government parties are unable to argue that there has been a good enough discussion of privacy and legal certainty in this matter. I remember the centerpart's speech girl. She is really asking that the objections that have been raised should in some way be corrected afterwards. I hope that is possible, but the point is that we adopt the law here and now, and its processor is quite unambiguous about who is sitting with the bay and both ends, literally. So now I'm really excited to hear what the finance minister would say about what Meltveit Kleppa wanted, how to follow up the objections that Meltveit Kleppa had in a way. It's getting exciting if the Minister of Finance has something else to do with it than what you've seen so far. Now I think that at the beginning of my post I was talking about ‘carriage’ and not about ‘invitation’. I'll have that fixed right away, so it's done for the Minutes. «Carriers» is something else, but it may have been because I saw Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa when I said it – so it will be forgiven! Anyway, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposals that we ourselves have agreed to promote. We are not doing that because we completely disagree with the law, there may be a lot here on which we can build, but it deserves a broader debate, where the balance between efficiency and legal certainty must be far more central than what we see in this proposal. Nor do I think it is entirely unproblematic that the state should now almost in all respects be the one that collects the money first, while the private business, for example. in the districts or, where appropriate, in order to get their heads in individual situations, it is necessary to put themselves in line. With this, I recommend the minority setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e605	At first, I think it is important to stress what the matter is really about, as the case-rapporteur did. First of all, it is a collection of the legal clauses that currently exist in a wide range of laws with regard to SI's so-called out-of-court collection. As far as the legal basis is concerned, one suggests that it be brought together in a separate chapter of the Enforcement Act. In other words, it's a simplification in the sense that one here has one law that you can deal with in terms of the extrajudicial collection that SI is carrying out. In addition, some minor regulatory adjustments have been proposed by providing SI with competence for the enforcement of simple money requirements, a general basis for relaxation and late payment, and an extended access to data collection. So I have noticed that several people have asked questions about whether this is an accelerated legal work, and I also noticed what the representative Meltveit Kleppa said. Of course, it should be such that the State, like any other person who collects money, should meet basic legal requirements for those who are subject to collection, whether from SI or from private debt collection agencies. I can promise the representative Syversen that if I see that development takes a different direction, it is fully possible to adjust that development, among other things. by the fact that SI is subject to the Ministry of Finance and that through the dialogue with SI as an underlying entity, one can raise such questions to ensure that SI, too, of course, complies with basic legal certainty requirements. One of the major issues not addressed in this law is the more overall assessment of how to organise public procurement in Norway. There is a slightly larger question, because it will also involve the public authorities and others — partly bodies under the Ministry of Justice. It's a big deal. This case has been the subject of a separate investigation carried out in 2007 – NOU 2007: 12 Public collection, on the country’s overall public collection system, with the exception of the tasks of the general officials. There were so many objections in the consultation round that one decided not to follow up on what was one of the main proposals in this investigation, namely a separate right of appeal for all state claims, including both tax claims and tax claims. In my view, in the light of the experience gained with the central government collection centre, there are few concerns that SI, in line with the other non-residents, municipal tax collectors, tax offices and Nav collection centres, will also in the future have special responsibility for the claims for which it is liable. Finally, let me just say the following about something that has been raised in the debate, with reference to the consultation opinion of the Oslo Public Prosecutor's Office, where one considers whether it is still the Stortninget that will decide which requirements should have a special coercive basis: of course, it is up to the Stortinget in the form of law to decide which requirements should have a special coercive basis. So finally, I would also like to say that there is a new possibility for SI through this law, and that is to provide assistance to victims of violence for the recovery of claims. It helps to strengthen the rights of a vulnerable group in society, and I see that this is one of the points where the Committee has supported the government's proposals together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e627	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e630	I was neither impressed, convinced, nor reassured by the Council of State's statement on the pulpit right now. What was quite clear was that the Council of State was very uncertain about whether this law would work. He was quite clear that all the objections had something to do with them. He was quite clear that the representative Meltveit Kleppa's objections should be taken into account, and he was quite clear that the opposition had good points. He was quite clear that all the hearing bodies had good points. So my question to the Council of State is, what's the urgency?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e637	Now I have seen from experience over three and a half years that it is difficult to satisfy all the demands and questions that the representative has, and I will not try it in this matter either. And then I think he had a pretty free interpretation, to say it that way, of the post that I made. So I'm allowed to stick to what I said myself, and not the interpretation that Tybring-Gjedde has. What's important for me to say, with reference to the posts of the representative Meltveit Kleppa, is that, of course, SI, like other people who claim money in this society, deal with basic legal certainty rules for those who owe money and who do not pay in time and are subject to collection. It shall apply to SI, in the same way as to any private collection agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e644	As you read more of the matter, I have to say that much of the matter unfortunately has something to do with government arrogance. This does not take seriously the criticism that comes either from the opposition in comments on the way in the hearings or in the written hearings. It is relatively rare that the Stortinget deals with a matter where the opposition gathers to send a case back to the government. Generally, there are different ways of bringing together political criticism or alternatives. In this case you have done both parts, but in general you have cooperated to send the matter back again. We have different ways of expressing ourselves, precisely because the Right is sincere in doubt about many of the issues, and we are completely objectively missing some of the issues we are calling for – the six proposals we have promoted. Will the Council of State take self-criticism in the way that the government has presented this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e655	This is neither a government arrogance nor a non-procedural nature. This is about a matter where a person wants to simplify the law around the extrajudicial collection that the central government collection centre is carrying out. They are currently regulated in 30 separate laws. What we're doing through this bill is collecting that part into one law. It's important, and it makes sense. Then I have also noticed that in the comments from the Right, it is actually said that there is no urgency in this matter, in the sense that the legal rules are still there in the special laws. But what is the main point is that we are just bringing together the special rules that are in thirty different laws, in one law, and that should be a simplification that is after the representative Kambes – I shouldn't say heart, but at least – reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e662	I have a very brief question to the Council of State. Does the Minister of Finance think that the proposal for SI law strengthens or weakens legal certainty for debtors?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e667	In fact, this is the case today, in my view – which I have responded to so far in a reply, and which I was in the post – that the central body of the State must operate its business in such a way that the fundamental interests of legal certainty are taken seriously. That's what the state's collection center does, and my view is that the fact that we're now collecting the extrajudicial law paragraphs in one law, doesn't rock it. With regard to the legal requirements made by the State Enforcement Centre, they are now brought together in a chapter of the Enforcement Act. In that context, too, I believe that the central body of the State is responsible for such fundamental legal security issues. But – as I said – if it turns out that questions are asked about it, of course, we will take it up with the central government collection centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e676	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e692	The Committee endorses the proposal to amend the Law on the Swedish Social Security Fund. It has been a practice that five of the members of the Governing Board are appointed on the basis of proposals from the major political parties, in line with the relationship of strength between the parties in the Grand Duchy. This practice is now proposed to be terminated. It does not require any changes to the law. However, it is proposed that the appointment of the Board of Directors be delegated from the King of the State Council to the Ministry of Finance, and it is enshrined in the law on the Swedish Social Security Fund. The Board of Directors is proposed to be reduced from nine to seven persons, and a liquidates the regime of personal alternates and instead establishes an arrangement of two permanent meeting alternates. Several developments suggest that one should change the practices that have been up to now. The size is reported every year where both the State pension fund abroad and the Folketreckdfond are subject to thorough debate and treatment. It gives us in Stortinget good insight into the governance and results of the two large funds. The annual debate shows that the Stortinget is very concerned with the Swedish Social Security Fund, and the Management Board has a great responsibility for managing the Community's resources in the best possible way. I trust that the board appointed under a new scheme will also help to create an open and good dialogue with the Storting once a year. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e703	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e717	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e726	It's my morning today. The Committee endorses the proposal to legislate on the consumer responsibility of the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Committee has on several occasions highlighted the importance of safeguarding consumers' interests and rights in financial markets and has expressed expectations that the financial supervision will take care of this. The Committee therefore agrees that this is explicitly expressed in the Financial Supervision Act. While this is generally important, the Committee has also, in the light of the experience gained in the past with the sale of structural savings products, been concerned that supervision must prevent such situations from reoccurring. The Committee has noted that in its opinion, the Consumer Ombudsman states that cooperation with the Financial Supervisory Authority is working well and is in the process of further development. It's a pleasure. However, the Consumer Council has stated on several occasions that it considers that there should have been separate supervision of consumer matters, given that they consider there to be a conflict of interest between soundness and consumer considerations. The Committee trusts that, through its competence in both fields, the Financial Supervisory Authority will be able to take care of both interests. The majority of the Committee today supports the proposal for amendments to the Banking Insurance Act on the payment of a levy to the Banking Insurance Fund. The proposal allows the hedge fund to be better able to deal with crises in larger individual banks and with problems affecting several banks at the same time, by introducing full payment to the hedge fund each year – regardless of the size of the fund. The minority of the Committee, the Progress Party and the Right, disagree and indicate that several hearing bodies are negative to the fact that Norway is, at this stage, unilaterally imposing a competitive disadvantage on the financial industry. However, the Committee supports the overall proposal to change the deadline for payment to customers, from three months to one week. The Committee supports the proposals for amendments to the Act of Occupational Pensions on Free Police. The Committee points out that, upon transition to new legislation, which is under preparation in the EU – the so-called Solvency II Code – pension schemes are expected to have higher capital requirements for the interest rate risk associated with the free police, although it is still not clear what the final Solvency II rules will be. The purpose of the amendments to the Occupational Pensions Act is to adapt to it. The Committee stresses the importance of information and guidance to policy holders when it opens up the possibility of choosing investment funds instead of general government with a return guarantee for the pension capital of a freepolis. This is reinforced in the bill in relation to the original proposal of the Banking Law Commission. The proposals to open up investment funds will help to reduce the capital requirement of the pension scheme, but will give full risk to the holders of free policies that choose investment funds instead of the interest rate guarantee scheme. During the examination of the case, the Committee received letters from the UNIO, LO, YS and the Academics. Like the Committee, organisations are concerned with the guidance and advice given to law enforcement officials. I am confident that the Council of State will include input from the employee organisations when the regulations are to be drawn up and that the regulations will be sent out in consultation in the usual way. The employee organisations are further concerned with the implementation date of the amendment we are adopting today. I also trust that the Council of State will assess which date of implementation is appropriate, given that other questions are addressed by the Banking Law Commission. This applies, inter alia, to: the transitional rules relating to the current regime and to the new regime, as well as the reservation for «long life» and new mortality rates, which are part of the four organisations’ agenda. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e752	These are three different laws that are now being amended. Let me first take the one that's referred to as the number. 2, Banking Act. The change in the payment deadline for the deposit guarantee scheme, ranging from three months to a week, supports the Progress Party. However, we disagree on the levy to the Banks Insurance Fund, where the majority requires a full annual fee even when the fund is fully capitalised – we think that's unreasonable. I understand the idea, but we disagree. It is wrong when Norway unilaterally imposes such requirements on the financial industry, i.e. requirements different from those of the EU. Let me remind you that approx. 30 pst. the lending in the market comes from banks established outside Norway. This means that the policy currently pursued by the government will lead to unequal conditions of competition for banks in the same market. It's going to be unreasonable, because we all know that the banks survive on the margins. When foreign banks need a lower margin to compete with Norwegian banks, they gain a competitive advantage. This does not make the banking market more robust, but only allows foreign banks to win market shares at the expense of Norwegian banks. I don't think of that as a point. This law should be part of the overall assessment of the Banking Act that the Banking Law Commission is now required to do. The government should have seen that. I would also like to mention that the government is making a lot of changes that they say will make the banking industry more robust, among other things. the requirement to increase equity in the purchase of a dwelling. This does not harmonize in the context when you see how to discriminate between Norwegian banks and foreign banks – as in this case – or how to discriminate between banks in general and the House Bank, which is allowed to take over market shares at the expense of private banks, as the government has also admitted. Therefore, the first part of the amendment to the Banking Act is good – the last part should not be done. This applies to the Financial Supervision Act. Yes, it is very good that this is legislated. It supports the Progress Party. There have been unfortunate cases of both Acta and loan-funded structured savings products, where consumer interests have obviously not been adequately safeguarded and where those who were to care for consumers have not been on the road early enough or had strong enough resources. The current amendment is therefore important for consumers. It is also important for point 3, namely the Act on Occupational Pensions. There are changes concerning free policies because it is expected that the Solvency II Code will result in higher capital requirements for interest rate risk associated with free policies. The Progress Party is generally in favour of freedom of choice, and we therefore support the proposal as it stands – here people have investment choices. But, and it is important to stress this, but, consumers' interests must weigh more heavily. The fact that people have the ability to make a choice doesn't necessarily mean that you have to make that choice. The Progress Party will strongly warn people against making use of their choice now, unless they are particularly capable of operating in the stock and bond markets. When we look at how the banks go into the media in this matter, we believe that the information obligation that we pointed out regarding the Financial Supervision Act must be followed very, very carefully. One sees articles in today's business where the banks themselves go out and say that people have to trade, because today they lose the upside. When the oil fund barely manages 3 pst. Return in the year, and we know that these pension rights have a guaranteed return of 3.6 to 3.7 pst., it is quite eager to give the impression that ordinary people will be able to beat professional administrators in the market we have today. When we read in Today's Business on November 28 that Tekna's members are recommended to exchange, because they get an outsider, without one particularly informing about the risks – and this even before the law is passed – it says a little about a banking industry that is very concerned about getting rid of commitments. The Solvency II Code will require them to significantly strengthen their equity coverage. DNB Liv has proposed that all free cops should be brought together in one company, and everyone knows why: because the Pension Fund is on the outside of the Solvency II Code, and then one gets away from this. This is more about banks than about customers' self-interest, and therefore customers should be very careful before switching to it. They shall have freedom of choice, but they must also be aware of the risks they take and of the risk information which insurance undertakings are required to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e780	Whereas it is important to safeguard the interests and rights of consumers in the financial market; We have seen this in Stortinget through several cases: during the handling of financial complaints, in a number of consumer cases that come on both the Stortinges table and the government table, and not least as enquiries to depositors. Therefore, in recent years, the Right has taken care of this by strengthening the Financial Supervisory Authority. The right agrees that more explicit clarification of consumer concerns and the interests and rights of consumers should be provided by the Financial Supervision Act. The Ministry proposes to reduce the time allowed for banks’ hedge funds to pay guaranteed deposits. This means that the bank's hedge funds shall cover losses on the guaranteed deposits as soon as possible and no later than one week after the financial supervision has concluded that the requirement to pay the deposit has been met. It is very good – where the Ministry of Finance has done a good job – because there is no doubt that today’s deadline of three months is not entirely adapted to the modern instruments that can be used, and that is the consequence of our not acting quickly enough. This has the full support of Right. Furthermore, the Ministry proposes to amend the provisions of the Banking Insurance Act on the payment of a levy to Bank Insurance Funds. The proposal implies that the members of the hedged fund are to pay the fund a full contribution every year, irrespective of the size of the fund. Under the law in force, members shall not pay a levy to the hedged fund where the own funds of the fund exceed a certain minimum. Several hearing bodies have said — and have had several rounds in the Stortinget on similar matters — that this is a matter which should be part of the assessment of the Banking Act by the Banking Law Commission. The right has been, and is, sceptical of this proposal for a faster rate of capital build-up than in the EU, and at least in relation to the Nordic countries, where there has been subsidising a Nordic requirement, but with which one has not succeeded – thus one has a strange demand. The banking market in Norway is characterised by strong competition. Foreign banks, mainly other Nordic banks, account for about 30 p.m. of the loans. In order for competition to be effective and fair, it is therefore necessary to have similar rules and supervisory practices. We all know what expectations are with banks – and with insurance companies, which this case is also about – in terms of increased capital requirements. The right emphasises that increased burdens will weaken the ability of Norwegian banks to meet the demand for loans from Norwegian companies. Norwegian business consists mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises that are fully dependent on bank financing. We believe that Norwegian finance industries deserve framework conditions that are equivalent to those of competitors, and that the issue of amending this provision should be part of the overall revision of the Banking Act investigated by the Banking Act Commission – not an internal compromise in the Ministry of Finance, where SV's mitigation manoeuvres are expressed through such types of examples. The Ministry also proposes some changes to the rules of the Law on Free Police in the Occupational Pensions Act. It is expected that, at the time of the transition to new legislation, which is under preparation in the EU, the pension schemes will have higher capital requirements for the interest rate risk associated with the free policies, although it is not yet clear what the final rules will be. The purpose of the changes in the occupational pension scheme is to adapt accordingly. It is therefore interesting to see that in practice, not only in practice but in fact, the Storting is unanimous in terms of the change in the law. The government has not said anything about the implementation of the decision. It has been important for the life insurance industry to quickly put this legislation in place, and we feel that the government will. But there is something uncertain when the legislation is going to apply. The representative of Solvik-Olsen refers to the fact that the banks have already started advertising in the market and are taking the decision of Storting on an advance basis, and that is why it would have been possible for the Minister of Finance to inform Stortinget today when he expects the launch date to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e795	The proposal to place greater responsibility on the Financial Supervisory Board for consumers’ interests and rights in financial markets has wide support both in the Stortinget and in the conducted hearing. So I don't see any reason to get closer to that question. The proposal to amend the legislation on the payment of a fee to the Banking Insurance Fund must be understood in the light of the experience we have from previous banking crises and the financial crisis we now have in our environment. We can hope, but we can't be certain that the international financial crisis is taking place here too. Norwegian households have record high loans, especially for housing. The fall in housing markets was a central factor in the banking crisis we had in the 1980s. It could happen again. The Ministry points out that at the end of 2011, Norwegian banks had a combined debt to depositors and other creditors of 3 340 billion. kr. Then you don't know the 22.7 billion. kr which was the capital of the Banking Insurance Fund, even if the fund meets the capital requirements imposed. If we look at a very short-term perspective, the Right Party and the Progress Party may be entitled to the requirement that the levy be paid to the Banking Insurance Fund can be a competitive disadvantage. In the longer term, and in the light of the financial crisis, a more solid capital base in the hedged fund will be a guarantee for a competitive banking industry. It is in everyone's interest that the banks should not seek shelter under the state's wings if there are difficult times. It is alarming that the Progress Party is negative to the government’s proposal to strengthen its lending framework in order to be able to grant housing loan applications, and that they find reason to point this out in this case. There may not be many people who are tired of entering the housing market, who share such an opinion. The house bank is the most important housing social tool the state has. A Joint Committee agrees with the amendments to the Pensions Act, which gives the holders of freepolises more choice when it applies to the management of their capital. Greater freedom for investment choices is good, but with freedom there is also greater risk. It is important to make this quite clear: it is necessary to lay down specific information requirements and to provide advice in the contractual process. It is good that a joint committee emphasises this. We have maintained a good follow-up from the providers of different investment options, and insurance companies must feel particularly affected here, and in the next round this good follow-up has also been provided by their supervisory and supervisory bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e810	These are important things we are dealing with today. I'll just say a few words about the three parts that this proposition deals with. As far as consumer rights are concerned, I am pleased with the support we receive here, because this is an important area, an area that I signed is extremely concerned – that people should both feel that they have and actually have a strong security around the management of their savings money, whether in insurance or in banking. That is why we have tightened up legislation on so-called complex investment products, so that people can get good and proper advice, get information about both risks and potential benefits. It is also important to tackle what can in many cases be seen as ongoing marketing, which we have seen more examples of. In the case of law enforcement, there's a large number. A free policy is an important security that the individual has, and what is in the proposal today, is that one here can increase the management possibilities of that security. Either you can keep it as it is today, or you can get an investment fund. I fully agree with what the representative Solvik-Olsen has to say: here, the advice, the obligation to provide information – not least in relation to the risk involved in obtaining an investment stock – must be real. It's important that this happens. This is a responsibility of the individual provider, but of course the authorities also have a responsibility to follow up that this freedom of choice is actually based on a real basis. In the case of implementation, such as, inter alia: The representative of Kambe was concerned about, there are many good arguments that this implementation does not take place from 1 January 2013. I am about to obtain an assessment of this from the Financial Supervisory Authority; I am going to get it these days. I believe that it will not be an implementation from 1 January 2013, but I will return to the exact date. It'll be something later. An important reason for this is that a person is seen in a more comprehensive way, in the context of the new investigations coming from the Banking Law Commission on the overall pension side. With regard to the issue of a mandatory fee to the hedge fund, I believe that this is an unusually good proposal, and the reason is that it is important to build up under the first line responsibility of the banks. Solid banks are a competitive advantage. The fact that banks have good capital coverage, the fact that banks are members of a good deposit guarantee scheme, is important, and it is no coincidence that they have had extensive business to enable Norway to maintain the good deposit guarantee scheme that we have today. In the case of subsidiaries of foreign banks operating in Norway, these are compulsory members of the arrangement and they have to pay in line with Norwegian banks. Branches of foreign banks may apply for membership; today seven foreign banks with branches in Norway are members. They will then have to pay the interlayer between the scheme they have in their own country and the Norwegian scheme of 2 million. kr. I would also like to stress that strengthening deposit guarantees is not a strange phenomenon; this is happening in several countries. In Norway, the hedge fund now represents about 0,8 pst. GDP. Both Sweden and Germany aim to build deposit guarantee schemes equivalent to 2.5 pst. GDP. They have started that way, in addition to the fact that banks will also have to participate in separate deposit-guarantee schemes there. So as regards the framework conditions for banks, I will also come back to this, because it concerns both capital requirements, liquidity requirements and the so-called macro-prudential supervision. It is important that we look at the whole picture of the demands we make on banks and financial institutions, but I will come back to this in Stortinget, because this is an important matter that the Stortinget must also have views on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e832	The question concerns consumers' interests in respect of pension contributions. The opening that we are now giving by changing the law is, as I said, the whole Biggest for. At the same time, we have seen what can be perceived as pressure from the banking industry to switch to this – that is, the risk is passed on to the pensioner instead of to the pensioner. Today's Businesses and others who have written about this show that banks have significant liabilities as they are today, so they must have much more equity at the bottom if Solvency II is implemented as planned, and therefore they hope to mitigate this risk to consumers. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Financial Supervisory Authority and others responsible for the interests of consumers are on the track from the first day, so that we avoid the kind of cases that you have seen in court lately, where consumers feel cheated because they buy a product that they really don't understand, but where they rely on well-meaning bankers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e837	This is clearly an area in which the representative Solvik-Olsen and the undersigned have a similar interest – to ensure that consumer interests are protected in a real way. We need to provide this through the advice to be given, but in addition, it is also an information obligation, and we need to ensure that the information obligation becomes real – as I said in my contribution – and clear both in terms of the risk and what it really is. I am concerned that the Financial Supervisory Authority should have good opportunities to follow up on the fact that this obligation to provide information is actually real, because I fully agree with the representative that it is not that simple for someone who might have more free politicians, to have the overall overview of what it means if one goes to that step and says that now I want an investment choice. I will do what I can to ensure that this information obligation that the providers will then have is real in relation to the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e845	I want to follow up on what the representative Solvik-Olsen brought up. I don't know if the finance minister was listening to radio today. There, representatives of LO expressed themselves very critically to the industry and what opportunities LO saw for them – what to say – to guide/not to guide consumers. The investment power that consumers can make here can mean both pluses and minuses, but what's crucial to us is that consumers know what they're actually talking about. When the Council of State says that he wants to make sure that the information obligation is fulfilled, the question is, How does he think it should happen? Is the Financial Supervisory Authority going into this, or is there any other mechanism he's thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e852	I think there are several people who can contribute in that context. One is that those who also represent the interests of employees in other contexts may be able to play a role by having members in front of that election and that they can contribute to making a wise and sensible choice — either to leave the free police in the company or to decide to have investment choices. I also imagine that when we say that there will be an information obligation, it would be natural for us to consult the Financial Supervisory Authority on how to follow it up, so that this information obligation becomes real, as I said. Otherwise, I have also noticed that, among other things. LO has been busy with the implementation time, and I have now announced today that it will not be on 1 January 2013, but some time further out in the year, and I will come back to the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e861	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e864	The point of this intervention is to draw more attention to what the Minister of Finance has just said, namely, the amendment of the law on the occupational retirement provision of free police, because it is incredibly complicated. At the same time, it is incredibly important in a situation where the insurance industry is now gradually experiencing and experiencing that the financial crisis we are experiencing will also have a major impact on them. So far, it has been visible to the banking community, but it has not been visible to the insurance sector in the same way. Now the insurance sector must try to get away from its obligations. As stated in the setting: «The proposals to open up investment funds will help to reduce the capital requirements of pension schemes, but will give full risk to the holders of free policies who choose investment funds instead of the interest rate guarantee scheme at the level of the investment funds taken.» It's seaworthy precisely, but for the most part, it's hard to understand the consequences of what's there. Yesterday Steinar Mediaa questioned whether the insurance companies are now running away from their pension-saving commitments. Obviously, that's what's going on. Life insurance companies have retained about 450 billion. kr of pensioners' savings, and for years they have attracted pension funds with the promise of a guaranteed return of 3,5 pst. at cost – a very, very demanding commitment. Now they understand that it is difficult to keep this promise, and as Solvik-Olsen's representative from the Progress Party said, the companies have already started calling around with offers, so that they can get away from it, and that it should be for the benefit of pensioners. What's at the heart of this is the word change that's now coming. I understand that the Council of State will send it to the hearing, that he wants to get a broad-based word change around it, so that all the people affected are aware of the international economic situation that leads to this change, and that one can make a choice, if one sails better to get returns than the professional elite companies – which promise 3.5 pst. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State present the matter in its full scope, so that the pensioners can make a proper choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e880	It is important that the policy is linked. Even today's government has had party members who say that everything is related to everything. That is why the Advance Party is taking up the House Bank. When you do things to regulate the banking market, especially the private banks, it's a little pointless if you have some banks that are on the outside of the law at the same time. It was therefore the Progress Party compared with the Norwegian banks and foreign banks which do not receive the same requirements. Similarly, however, private banks that lend money to homes have strict demands and have been strengthened to lend money to people, while the House Bank – as the Progress Party also seems to be a good bank, especially with regard to social housing policy – is exempt from the same rules. Then it is not useful to talk about the fact that it is now important to tighten up and increase the requirement for equity for those who borrow money, if the House Bank is on the outside of all of these rules. So you know that when the government increased the capital supply to the House Bank by 5 billion. kr, asked the Progress Party what it meant for the pressure in the Norwegian economy. The five billion were allocated on the outside of the rule of action. Then the government says no, this doesn't mean anything, because this will only take over loans that would have come from other sources. Then our question is, why is it more responsible if people borrow money from the House Bank than if they borrow the same amount of money from other private banks? The ability to operate the borrowers does not change as a result. The only difference is that one has driven state capitalism a little in hiding, that there are state banks that lend out instead of private ones, but it doesn't become more responsible for that reason. The government itself wrote in the answer to one of the budgetary questions of the Progress Party that 93 p.m. of those who borrow money from the Husbank for initial loans, the leverage ratio is above 85 p.p. But if some private banks try to borrow one penny over 85 pst., the Financial Supervisory Authority will automatically come in and look at them in the cards. Therefore, dear representative Kleppa, the Progress Party thinks it is a little suspicious when the government has one regulation for the House Bank and a completely different regulation for all the others. This is not because we are opposed to social housing policy. The Progress Party wants to strengthen the Husbank in building student housing, which is one of the best and most targeted social housing policies. But there is no context in what the government says about having a responsible banking industry, when they at the same time undermine it all by piling up the House Bank with money that competes in exactly the same market. The only difference is that the private banks are subject to financial supervision regulations, the Husbank is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e891	We're getting close at 1:00. 11.30, so I'm going to be extraordinarily short. As a response to the representative from Lundtigen, and as I also said in my contribution, I am concerned that both the advice and the information obligation become real. It is important that we facilitate a good discussion about the legislation that will apply here. At the same time, I would also like to stress that an important reason why it is now demanding to meet this guaranteed return is related to the international crisis, on which the representative Lundtegegen was involved, and not least to the fact that the level of interest rates both internationally and in Norway is currently low. So the demanding exercise here is to find the good balance between the soundness of insurance companies and the security of pensioners and all future pensioners – to use that expression – and others have for their free policies and savings. It's a difficult balance, but at least I'm going to make my point that there's going to be an enlightened and good debate. Then we get back to the other discussions about the House Bank, etc. on a later occasion, when time permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e900	I thank you for the Minister of Finance's answer, and, as he said, it is incredibly demanding for the insurance companies to discharge their obligations in the economic situation we are in. To me, it seems quite demanding how a private person should be able to obtain a greater return than that received from his company's obligations. What we're facing is a situation where one seafarer has to get a different behavior from the company's side, but also that one has to get other regulatory devices, so that one learns from the situation we're in, and relies on a much larger safety and care line, and not least we need to have a much greater focus on the real economy, as opposed to the financial economy, in the future. My second point concerns the position of the Advance Party and the Right in the view on the fee to the Banking Insurance Fund. So today, in December 2012, the Progress Party and the Right are on the old line, that one does not have to pay an annual fee in addition to the minimum, as long as the fund is larger than its minimum. It is quite strong to experience – according to the experience with the Icelandic banks and the situation we are in – that the Progress Party and the Right choose to have the most focus on low fees – it is more important than high security. The fact that, to those degrees, Norway could be a safe haven and play on its competitive advantage with security does not appear to be the main concern of the Progress Party and the Right in this case. One does not seem to have taken any recognition of the experience so far. The most important thing is that there is still a low level of taxation and competitiveness in relation to the rest of the world — not the safety of the situation. I think it's quite politically clear that the Progress Party and the Right continue to pick that line, but one doesn't seem to have learned anything about the situation we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e909	The budget is now interrupting its negotiations. The representatives have chosen to extend the debate, and the President will recall that the meeting will be resumed at noon. 3:30. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 11:33. -------------------------------- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e923	The decision continues to deal with case No. 3 on Agenda No 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e926	What made me speak was the representative Lundteg, who was obviously inspired by the Nobel Peace Prize award to the EU today. He turned to the large heights and connected the Right and the Progress Party's views that we were against the Bank Insurance Fund's fee, that we would have a risk when it came to the deposit guarantee. It is with respect to report as far away from the matter as it is possible to get. Right has been one of the perpetrators and pressured the government; the Right has, through our international contacts in the EPP, contributed to the continuation of the Norwegian deposit guarantee – which is actually the best in Europe – despite the fact that forces in the EU want to weaken it in favour of their own banks. What we have said is that we are opposed to the additional levy on the bank guarantee fund that comes because the fund is already fully capitalised. This means that regardless of how much money there is, money is to be paid into a phase in which the same political authorities – whether in the case of government or in the case of growth – come with other demands to strengthen equity for banks and financial institutions. There are two backstops here: this is not being done in the EU, and it is not being done in the Nordic region. It's a point for the Right to emphasize that when we vote against it, it's not because we're opposed to it initially, but we want to treat the banks in a non-discriminatory way. This will be a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian banks. The Banking Law Commission has its own Banking Insurance Act. In view of this and everything else we have said in the comments in the case and other, we believe that this fee is not suitable to follow up the target. It is unnecessary now – it is too fast now – and there are other ways to do this. I therefore believe that the government would have served to have a little more ice in its stomach and wait for someone to see what the other neighbouring countries and the EU are doing, and not least to ensure that the Banking Law Commission comes with its own banking law. That's it. Otherwise I am very happy to see that Lundtigen has returned. We missed him in Oslo City Hall. I'm sure he had some useful knowledge there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e936	It was the contribution of the representative, Lundtigen, that I also wanted to make an article. I was supposed to have a quiet morning to honor the Peace Prize, but then Lundteg managed to get to the last post before we interrupted the meeting. It blows a regulatory wind over Europe – of course it does. We have a financial crisis, but where Lundtigen has it from the fact that Norway is the most difficult in it, is a very good question. We learned the lesson in 1992 and have a very good regulation regime for the banks. We also have the bank security fund, which works very well. So it's like the representative Kambe says: why are we going to impose further burdens on the banks in a world where we've actually done quite well? I agree with the Minister of Finance – now he is not here – that it is a competitive advantage to have solid banks. But there's a balance between that and making sure that there's credit access to, among other things. business life. This government has a challenge there too, because we see that the debt to Norwegian households is larger than it has ever been. It's much higher than in the Japs, which is legendary. For small and medium-sized enterprises, it's pretty fucked out there. It's extremely difficult to finance new projects, and the banks are actually naveled throughout that system. The regulation of banks is about how many times money is going to circulate in society. Of course, we want it to be done with solid equity and safe regulation behind us. But it's not just putting on new regulations, because it's going to hurt something. At present, there is a lot of evidence that small and medium-sized enterprises and their ability to finance projects around the country are seriously affected. I think that should also worry about a central party like the representative Lundteg – just to get a certain shade. I strongly reserve myself against his use of words that the Right as well as will release everything. That's not what this is about. This is about finding the right balance sheet, where Norwegian financial institutions are doing well in competition with the rest of the world, and where we are not imposing unnecessary burdens on them. They shall have the kind of regulation that makes us have a safe and secure financial system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e947	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e950	I am very pleased that the deposit guarantee scheme has unison digestion here. It's true that the right has also been involved. The government has been the main actor there, so all that's good. The deposit guarantee scheme we have is better than other countries, and it's something to be proud of. When you have something better than other countries, it costs money, and that's what we're talking about here, that's the fee you pay to fund the fund. That's what's my point: when you have something better, you have to be positive to fully fund it. That's the government and the central party's position. It's not about the right going in to let things go. The point is – to put it briefly and simply – that the Right will not take the cost of having a better system. That's the core of the matter. So there is no special ‘regulation wind’, but there is a question of linking rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e957	Arve Kambe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e960	I think perhaps the representative Lundteigen misunderstands something. The increase in the levy on Bank Insurance Funds does not result from maintaining the level of the deposit guarantee. It'll be waiting for something that might happen sometime in the future. Today’s deposit guarantee rates have no relevance to me – or others – as a private individual, to businesses or whatever it may be. It simply has to do with the fact that the fund is already fully capitalised. It has achieved the requirement imposed on the Fund by the Financial Supervisory Authority and other authorities. Thus, we believe that pending the Banking Act Commission, pending the Banking Act, pending the EU and pending joint Nordic cooperation, it will be possible to wait, for this has nothing to do with the guarantee as it stands today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e965	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e979	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e993	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, speaking time is limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1002	The proposers propose that the State should, on its own initiative, make itself available to help Oslo municipality with a new Munch museum. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all outside the Advance Party agree that it is great if the State assists. But the initiative should be located in the Municipality of Oslo. The Munch Museum is a purely municipal responsibility in Oslo, but the matter in the City Council has run quite strongly on a political siding – I want to be so ready to say: with the good help of the Progress Party. The situation is that efforts are being made to find a political solution in the capital. Of course, there is nothing the state should, or can, interfere in, in the light of the respect you should have for municipal autonomy. Having said that, I hope – I suppose it is – that the state will take a positive view of the solutions to be found, and that, on the initiative of the Municipality of Oslo, they will be happy to present and assess various measures that could help to find a solution. But the initiative should clearly be in the municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1007	The whole of Norway is proud of Munch. «Scream» has become the image of the people for the whole of Norway, and the Municipality of Oslo has said no to initiate the project to house the new Munch Museum. I think it is a pity, and I regret that for the country's leading artists, permanent exhibition facilities have not been clarified for the future. Whether it's in Oslo East or Oslo West, or if it's part of urban development in parts of the municipality, I'm not going to interfere, but I think Munch deserves better treatment than he has. I think it's intended to see that the future of the works of one of the world's leading visual artists is uncertain as a result of a political disagreement in Oslo. This is a little worth it. At the same time, we know that the magazines are full of good Munch works, which are also not shown as they should. In this context, it may seem that support is needed from the State, the Government and the State to facilitate the implementation of the plans for a future Munch location – it is through financial support, by making premises available, or by providing the government with a constructive role if at a later stage, possibly later in the plan for a new Munch Museum, any assistance in this matter would be initiated by the Municipality of Oslo. It is an important national and state task to contribute to the management of Munch's art in such a way that these unique art taxes are preserved in a dignified way for the future. Then there must also be a special and great responsibility on the part of the government to ensure that Munch's art is preserved and made available to the public in a dignified manner. Edvard Munch represents an important chapter in Norwegian art history, and Munch's paintings have an art and cultural historical significance nationally and internationally. Norway has not sufficiently recognised or, for that matter, has recognised the range of Munch's art internationally, at least in my opinion. There is now a process going on in the Municipality of Oslo to find solutions for a new Munch museum, but I will, and I must, request both the Council of State, the Government and the sitting magnificence to assess how you can contribute to this process. The Americans have now obtained a edition of "Scream". They have had great success with long display queues and a large press service. However, we should be aware that the three best versions of ‘Skrik’ remain in Norway. I am pleased about that, and we should take care of that possibility in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1020	The President assumes that the representative Ib Thomsen in his statement intended to address the proposal behind the vote by the minority. – It is confirmed and thus listed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1023	Today we are talking about the legacy of one of our foremost artists – a great legacy that we all share in taking responsibility for. To a large extent, we take responsibility for national, especially through the art exhibited in the National Gallery, and through the work that can be done by supporting international art lending. Munch's art is in the shot that perhaps never before, through great international attention and through that art is traded at very high price, though some of the best art he's ever produced, is still to experience here in Norway. I agree with the rapporteur, Mr Thommess, who points out from this speech that the issue we are discussing today is primarily an Oslo matter, because this art is given as a gift to the Municipality of Oslo. Then it is regrettable and sad to observe that the City Council has so far not been able to take the responsibility of managing such a historically important and significant gift as this. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is gathered around most things, but I need to ask the opposition parties some questions, for the comments on this matter – I don't know if it's an accident, or if it's conscious, it's hard to say from my point of view – cracks in every direction. Firstly, the Committee, all parties, is gathered on the note where we write the following: ‘With respect for local democracy in Oslo, the Committee finds that it would not be right for the State to actively engage in this process.’ It includes the proposers. Furthermore, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party writes: ‘These members will ask the Council of State to assess how she can contribute to this process while ensuring the best respect for local democracy.’ I don't know if it's just me having trouble getting these two comments to hang out. Thirdly, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party states that «the State will play a constructive role if at a later stage, possibly later, in the plans for a new museum, the initiative of the Municipality of Oslo on any assistance in this matter should be taken». I need a more detailed explanation for this, because I do not know whether the Council of State should be abstinence from this, as indeed an overall committee believes, whether the Council of State should draw up a strategy on how to intervene in the matter, as some claim, or whether to sit and wait for an initiative from the Municipality of Oslo. This seems very unclear, so I ask the opposition to explain what this means. I think I agree with Ib Thomsen when he from this pulpit says that Munch had deserved a better treatment than what he's been given. Then it's tempting to say that Munch probably deserved another political majority in the Municipality of Oslo. That is where the responsibility lies, and that is where it must remain. We would like to contribute as far as possible, but this must be directed primarily at the City Council in Oslo, and therefore perhaps Ib Thomsen's posts should be kept for the Group of the Progressive Party in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1046	It's hard to rank artists, but Edvard Munch doesn't have any over or on the side within his area here at home. He's one of the world's leading visual artists. His works and his career are a very important part of our art and cultural history that the public clearly has a responsibility to take care of. Edvard Munch has enormous national value, and the Munch Collections are both a national and an international tax. The interest that benefits the Munch Museum also benefits both Oslo and the whole country culturally and economically. But it's like the Munch Museum collections are the property of the Municipality of Oslo. It is those who have received this great gift, and it is therefore the municipality of Oslo that is responsible for preserving and making his art available to the Norwegian people and to the general public. For the sake of local democracy, it is therefore important that the discussion on where and when a new Munch museum is to arrive should take place in Oslo City Council and not in this Chamber. I am absolutely sure that the people of Oslo are very conscious that they have a great and heavy responsibility to take care of one of Norway's greatest cultural treasures, and that they want to do so on behalf of the entire Norwegian people. As I see it, there are arguments that speak both to build the Munch Museum on the Tøen and in what is called Fjordbyen. In any case, there will be a great attraction in the end to lift Oslo as an international visitor. As I said, I am absolutely sure that the people of Oslo see the need to decide where a new Munch museum should be built, and that they see the potential of such a museum for the city in several ways, and that, therefore, progress in the matter is important. Therefore, I would like to point out that what is most important in this case is that the economy of Oslo Municipality has been strengthened in recent years through the red-green efforts for seven years to improve the economy of Municipality-Norway. That means the Municipality of Oslo is better rusted than ever to take care of the inheritance of Edvard Munch. I would therefore like to congratulate the elected representatives, whether they fall on one or the other site option.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1057	I will not undertake the task of responding on behalf of the entire opposition to the challenge of Arild Stokkan-Grande, especially when I am not even in the committee. But for the Christian People's Party, I can now answer. It's no more strange what it says than it's possible to talk to each other. You don't live in isolated worlds. For the Workers' Party, there should at least be something recognizable in that you can talk to each other, I would think. It is also a direct follow-up to what a Joint Committee on Culture has said in examining a proposal for a representative on the conservation of the National Gallery's Munch Hall. Then they said the following: ‘The Committee believes that it is an important national and state task to contribute to the management of Munch’s art in such a way that these unique art taxes are preserved in the future. It is a great responsibility for the State to ensure that Munch's art is preserved and made available to the public in a dignified and correct manner.» That's what an overall committee said. It is essentially the same thing that we have in the comment to which the representative referred. This might indicate that you don't even remember what you were doing in the previous round.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1071	Representatives of Solvent Horne, Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Korsberg and Christian Tybring-Gjedde promote in Document 8:140 S for 2011–2012 the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to propose that the State assist the Municipality of Oslo in the establishment of a new Munch Museum.’ It is known that Munch himself legitimized his artistic production and his literary work to the Municipality of Oslo. The last few years, the big question has been what solution the Municipality of Oslo will come up when it comes to new building facilities for the Munch Museum. All the parties to this question are quite a few that need new and temporal building frameworks for Munch's art. The municipal process has not yet ended, and there are different political views about localisation and economic frameworks, as often will be in such cases. Of course, I agree with what is happening, but at the same time I respect that the municipal process should go its own way. Here I'm busy that from the state side we're going to behave in a neat way. The proposers act as if they are acting on behalf of the Municipality of Oslo, and call for government initiatives directly into the municipal process of new building solution for the Munch Museum. They act in a way that depreciates politicians in the capital of the country to conclude in this matter in a sensible way. Fortunately, the attitude of a Joint Committee shows a more balanced approach with respect for the internal process in the municipality. It is appropriate to recall that, over the years, it has established a practice of sharing responsibilities between the State and the Municipality of Oslo in relation to cultural institutions in the capital. Some institutions have a full responsibility for the state, such as: The Norwegian Opera & Ballet and National Museum. Other institutions are entirely municipal responsibility, and the Munch Museum is indisputably part of that group. I argued that the country's capital has politicians who have the power to come up with a solution that ensures that the Munch Museum has framework conditions that are worthy of the important administrative task of being responsible for the gatherings after one of the world's most important artists. Our task in government and growth is to support the process itself in the municipality, not uninvited to intervene in the process and more or less put the municipality under administration in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1093	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1096	I understand that it was great when the Council of State was in New York and opened the MoMA exhibition, where "Scream" was shown. That job I envy her, and at least I could have been there. I have a question. In 2010, Erik Solheim mixed up in the discussion about where the Munch Museum was to be located. He wanted the municipality to have further investigations on this. Does the Council of State think it is okay for an Environment Minister to interfere in where the Municipality of Oslo will place the Munch Museum and that, as Minister of Culture, she should keep an arm's length distance when it comes to thinking about this? Was it okay that the then Minister for the Environment did this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1104	Erik Solheim and I solve our Councils in different ways. I have a strong commitment to the conclusion that the discussion about the location of a new Munch museum is coming to a worthwhile conclusion and that it is a good process. But it is not natural that I as Minister of Culture, in this role, actively, uninvited intervene in what is a local process in the Municipality of Oslo. But since I represent the Oslo Labour Party, I have followed this discussion and been interested in it for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1109	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1114	I wonder a little about the various speakers' attacks on this matter. You are very concerned with municipal self-determination and not to intervene and that the Municipality of Oslo should rule as they wish. There is no way of being kind on behalf of the municipal right of self-determination when it comes to money you don't have to pay. The truth is that the Municipality of Oslo cannot afford to pay 3 billion. NOK for a new museum, in addition to paying NOK 3 billion. kr to a new Deichman. That's six billion. kr, and 6 brd. kr divided by 600 000 inhabitants is NOK 10000 per capita. Oslo Municipality can't afford that. The Municipality of Oslo has over 23 billion. Indebtedness. So the state has $4,200 billion. kr on book. We're in the same country. This is the capital, and it's perhaps the greatest artist in Norwegian history we're talking about. Then I think it is natural that the state assumes the responsibility of offering the Municipality of Oslo a financial contribution to get this in place. It is not about processes or that the state should decide where it should be, but that the state should say: Yes, we have money in the Norwegian state. We're very lucky to have the economic situation we have. We see that the Municipality of Oslo has spent too much money and has a debt of NOK 40,000 per capita – so we cannot afford this in the municipality of Oslo. It is simply a cry from the Municipality of Oslo about a financial contribution to something that is very important to get in place, namely a new Munch museum. It is heard that in particular those who are followers of the Lambda, but insofar as those who are followers of the Tøen, have cried out very loud about getting this in place, that everything is irresponsible and that everyone else who thinks otherwise is cultural and what is worse. But the following is interesting: Those who have such a great sense of Munch, who really think you should spend NOK 10 000 per capita in the municipality of Oslo – why do they not want to contribute? I would encourage all those who love Munch, to start a private donor action, so that you can set up some money, some private money. If the State budget of the Advance Party were used as a basis, it could be deducted from the tax, but you cannot do so today. In any case, I encourage everyone – not least Right-wing people, who live in the better-off parts of the city, who have very good advice, who have been very active in the media to get the Munch Museum/Lambda in place – to call up the money and contribute to get the Munch Museum in place! I'm also going to contribute if someone initiates such an action. Then I'm going to contribute to that monner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1123	All right, that's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1126	This is actually more of a consideration than a party post in the case. We're going to vote by the majority here. I have been a local politician both in Oslo and in Nord-Trøndelag. I believe that the reason for rejecting this case is that it comes from Stortinget and not from the municipality. But what's amazing is that in every part of the world other than this country, you would have thought that the state would be involved in a split. That would make sense. I was involved in the process of building Stiklestad National Cultural Centres. It would never have been anything if the state had not been on a split. You think logically when you plan for the state to be part of a split. The great transition from being a local politician in Trøndelag to becoming a local politician in Oslo was that one could never expect the state to participate in anything. When you negotiated the price of the plot for the Opera, I think it was 20 cm around the edge of the Opera that belongs to the state – because it was not about buying 1 mm more from the municipality. In all negotiations between the state and Oslo, they seem to be two major opponents in business. I had hoped that the state and Oslo could be a little more on track, because the state is an important actor in Oslo. That at all, the city council doesn't like to think in terms of planning that here you're going to be able to get the state on the ground, is quite strange, I think. But the idea in the nation of Norway is that Oslo likes to be a unit that a government can run election campaigns against, which I also think is strange. As you can see, the City Council in Oslo can be something that the government is fighting against. I don't think there are so many other countries that have such structures. It is quite strange to go from being a local politician in Trøndelag to thinking of being a local politician in Oslo and negotiating with the toughest negotiating partner in Oslo. I think it's a thought for us as a national parliament that maybe we should try to be a little bit more involved with our own capital also in terms of cultural boosting. Whether there are private collections or there are other public gatherings around the country: the arguments put forward today are not presented in relation to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1153	The last article in the previous issue is actually a good play for this interpellation debate. First of all, there is reason to remember that when Edvard Munch died in 1944, his will showed that all his artistic production and all his literary works were to fall to the Municipality of Oslo. That's why Oslo is the administrator and owner today. This testamentary gift included about 1,100 paintings, 15,500 graphic leaves, 4,700 drawings, six sculptures and his graphic printing plates, along with some other objects. These went into the collections of the Munch Museum and make up more than half of Munch's total production. The present value of his gift is estimated at several tens of billion dollars. In the warehouses of the Munch Museum it is stored approx. 900 paintings that are rarely shown, because they are in poor condition, or because they are not much sought after because they are variants of more familiar versions of the same motif. We know – it was mentioned in the previous round – the importance of Munch internationally, at the latest at the contribution of the Minister of Culture in New York. But before that there was the exhibition “Edvard Munch, Modern Eye, 1900–1944” at Centre Pompidou in Paris from September 2011 to January 2012, an exhibition that had almost 0.5 million visitors in four months. There were about 200,000 more visitors than expected. The number is a careful indication of Munch's enormous international significance. Then we have the home debate as we approach 2013, the 150th anniversary of Munch's birth. We know that there's a majority for us to get a new Munch museum, but we also know that there's no majority for where this Munch museum is going to be. There's nothing entirely new in the Norwegian context, but that's the situation. Let me make it clear that I am not going to call for the state to go in and decide where the Munch museum should be, but this magnificence has itself said something about the state engagement that should be for Munch's art. I remember what a collective family and culture committee said in March of this year. They say, and I think that's well said – I can say that that's not on the committee: ‘The Committee will recall that these art taxes’ – i.e. Munch’s art – ‘are an essential part of our art history to be managed and maintained independently of the fate of the National Gallery’. This was played at the time. Further: ‘The Committee believes that it is an important national and state task to contribute to the management of Munch’s art in such a way that these unique art taxes are preserved in the future. It is a great responsibility for the State to ensure that Munch's art is preserved and made available to the public in a dignified and correct manner.» With this I end the quote from the said staging setting. I have seen it so that the government itself thinks that the state should engage in Munch's art, not just by being present and throwing glamour over openings. It's also very good, because it promotes both Norway and Munch. But in the big message to be debated here later today, the government has raised Munch quite high on its cultural policy agenda. I quote from the big message that the government has presented: «Edvard Munch has its natural place in the world's art and cultural heritage. In particular, the legacy of Munch can contribute to raising contemporary Norwegian art even higher internationally. Here are great opportunities for the Norwegian art field.’ Furthermore, the Government, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will strengthen the dissemination of Edvard Munch's art abroad and make better use of Munch's art as a door opener for Norwegian contemporary artists on the international art arena. Finally, from the same message: ‘The collections belong to and are managed by the Municipality of Oslo, but they are obviously important from a national perspective. Both the National Museum and several regional museums have works by Edvard Munch, but professional cooperation with the lending of works by the Munch Museum is essential for the full dissemination of our most important visual artist.’ In this message, the government is drawing out how Henrik Ibsen has been a door opener to a contemporary writer like Jon Fosse – just to show how Munch can be used for Norwegian contemporary artists today. My challenge is then to the Minister of Culture: How will the government follow up – now I quote from Innst. 107 S for 2012–2013 – ‘that Munch’s art is preserved and made available to the public in a dignified and correct manner’? How will she, even if she is not to overrule the Municipality of Oslo, contribute to the fact that what is happening around the location, too, can go a step further? It also has to do with the state, because it's only been a few days since we had a bigger look-up in the evening post, where it says: «The Munch battle slows down the University's plans.» Rector Ole Petter Ottersen of the University of Oslo says the following: ‘Everything stops because decisions are not taken at political level, especially in the case of the Munch Museum.’ As you know, the Natural History Museum has for a long time had plans for a new greenhouse and witness centre just at the Munch Museum where it is today. So this also affects the state because an unexplained situation prevents the development of other sectors of which the state is occupied, and which I believe will also involve this hall. So if you don't manage Oslo – I don't think you should at all – it's clear that a Minister of Culture in this field can play an important role, be a catalyst for getting on with the actual location of a new Munch museum. One should remember that with regard to the whole area around Bjørvika, there has been a single great cooperation between the state and the municipality to get the details in place. There has been close cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and the State. In the extension of what the representative Skei Grande said, it is still possible for the state to contribute constructively by moving forward and perhaps in 2013, when we celebrate Munch's anniversary, to say that we both promise Munch's legacy and that through joint contributions we can also make sure that we get a decision on where to lay a new Munch museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1210	I feel that there are several questions that have been raised by the interpellant. I want to thank him for taking up a discussion about one of our most important artists. I feel there are several things he takes up. One is how the state can contribute to Munch's many productions, and the other is a more hypothetical question about the location of a new Munch museum. I'm glad that the interpellant and I'm a few that one should not put Oslo municipality under administration by an undead intervention in their processes. I feel that what the interpellant is asking for is that one takes on a constructive role. To that I can say that there is a hypothetical question as to how the state might contribute to the location of a new Munch museum. It's important to me that we from the state side act in the most neat manner possible in that context. But I can say that in general I am busy taking a constructive role if there are requests to contribute. But I don't feel that this is the case here. Then I also understood the interpellant so that someone has given the impression that the plans of the University of Oslo can be shattered by a not landing the discussion about the location of a new Munch museum. I understand that the interpellant is primarily busy, is the Cultural History Museum and whether it should be located at Tullinløkka in connection with the National Gallery, or, if so, whether the University of Oslo is going to use parts of it for a center campus, which is the two things that the University of Oslo has expressed that they could think. When it comes to the location of the Cultural History Museum, there is a KS1 process in progress, where the report will be presented in the new year. It will form the basis for decisions about the Cultural History Museum. So the plans for the University of Oslo are moving forward. But it's natural enough that when it comes to big institutions and big changes, a natural is slow enough. I agree that we are facing major challenges when it relates to the administration of Edvard Munch's art. But when the representative Syversen is basing his question on a claim that: «we in Norway have not sufficiently recognised and understood the range of Munch's art internationally»; is, however, a nuanceable statement. For many years, Edvard Munch's art has been disseminated through exhibitions in an outstanding foreign museum. The National Museum, and not least the Munch Museum, has lent works to many exhibitions abroad. For example, for the past six years, the National Museum has lent 72 works by Munch to 24 different exhibition venues in Europe, North America and Asia. The last major foreign campaign has been the 'Modern Eye', which has been an audience success both in Paris, London and Frankfurt, and which can now be seen in Oslo. It's otherwise a great exhibition, which I highly recommend. Both institutions have so many loan requests that it is practically impossible to say yes to all. Nor should we forget that a large part of the works of art is fragile objects that are required to be transported for conservation reasons. It's set to sometimes limits on what to do in defense. An important measure by the State that makes it possible to have an active lending policy for Munch's art abroad is the government guarantee scheme for Norwegian foreign outsourcing. The scheme is administered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Norwegian museum and exhibition institutions may apply for a State guarantee of loss and damage for exhibitions to be displayed at foreign institutions. A review of the warranties for the last ten years shows that lending Munch's art dominates clearly. The main institution for managing Edvard Munch's art is, of course, the Munch Museum, an institution for which the Municipality of Oslo is fully and completely responsible. The National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design also plays a major role in the administration of Edvard Munch's art, especially in view of the so-called Munch space in the National Gallery. In addition, the Museums of Art in Bergen have an important Munch collection that is exhibited in the Rasmus Meyer Collections. These three museums are the most important administrators of Munch's art, and they cooperate closely on issues related to lending Munch's art both internationally and otherwise. Outside the range, Munch's art can be seen in an outstanding museum abroad. As the representative of Syversen pointed out, and as pointed out in the previous discussion, a version of Skrik was presented in The Museum of Modern Art in New York recently. It's very positive that works by Munch in this way can be experienced in foreign art institutions. It enhances the knowledge and understanding of Munch as an artist with a good international reputation. In 2013, it's been 150 years since Edvard Munch was born. A number of measures are planned to highlight the artistry in different ways. The most extensive event will be in Oslo, with two exhibitions in the National Gallery and the Munch Museum. Furthermore, there are different types of markings in eight so-called Munch municipalities, all of which have a special connection to the life history of Munch. The first Munch marker will go off the stack right now in December, at Svalbard, where the hiking exhibition ‘Munch in the suitcase’ begins to travel through the country. A total of 150 years since Edvard Munch was born, it seems to be a varied and worthy mark of being born in 2013. We can see that for many years it has been one of the ways of extensive dissemination of Edvard Munch's art both here in the country and internationally. Then, of course, it's an assessment question whether it's enough and adequate. Let me give an example of what the government is now aiming to do in this context: in the planned new building of the National Museum of Art on the Western Railway, the museum has programmed a Munch hall of 50 pst. greater than the area occupied by the museum in the national gallery. It will make it possible to display more of Munch's art on a permanent basis. It is a positive and important contribution to the dissemination of Munch's works of art. In addition, the new West Railway will provide the National Museum with very good security conditions for Munch's art as well as for the other important collections managed by the museum. In recent years, the big question has been what solution the Municipality of Oslo comes up when it comes to new building facilities for the Munch Museum, and I feel that all the parties to this question are some of the things that need new building frameworks for Munch's art. I want to follow that process. I am interested in that process, but I believe that it is not constructive that I, in my role as Minister of Culture, uninvited to intervene in the local process that is taking place here in the Municipality of Oslo. I argued that the country's capital has politicians who have the power to come up with a solution that ensures that the Munch Museum is given framework conditions that are worthy of the important administrative task of being responsible for the collections of one of the world's most important artists. When the new building of the National Museum is in place, and the Municipality of Oslo is being built for the Munch Museum, we will be well equipped to manage and disseminate the art of Edvard Munch both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1251	Thank you for a constructive response from the Council of State. With regard to the potential for Munch to put both Norwegian art and Norway on the map, I think the Council of State answered very well. At the same time, what you're writing in the visual art notice is that you have higher ambitions, and that you can see that you can take advantage of Munch and Munch's art even more than what you're doing today. It's written there that the department will «in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, strengthen the dissemination of Edvard Munch's art abroad and make better use of Munch's artistry as a door opener for Norwegian contemporary artists on the international art arena.» It's a very exciting thought. I don't know if the government council has any thoughts of sharing with the Storting about how she sees this going to happen in practice. So to the more current day related to the location of the Munch Museum. I record that the Council of State says that she will not actively take any initiative, and that's okay. But I also hear that the Council of State says that if the Municipality of Oslo somehow turns to the state, she intends to play a constructive role also linked to the location of the Munch Museum. We might like it or not, but this sit-in debate has come in death row, and I'm not going to go into any polemics about why it's like that. I have to say that it is the majority of a new Munch Museum in Oslo City Council, but not where it should be. I think that afterwards will praise all who positively contribute to that we can also raise Munch's art through a new Munch museum. Only during the last three or four days, when people realize that an interpellation debate is going to take place here in the house about Munch, it has streamed up with emails and telephones saying that the Stortinget – of course through the Council of State, indirectly – must also help us get a new museum, and that the state and the municipalities will play on layers, so that this can actually be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1267	There is no doubt that Munch engages many, both in Oslo, Norway and internationally. The great interest around Munch was also expressed quite strongly when «Scream» was exhibited in New York, and one could – I kept saying – take and feel the enthusiasm of this great Norwegian artist, of whom we have every reason to be very proud. The interpellant referred to the magnification message about visual art, which we will discuss later today, where it is clear that Munch is one of the artists who can be a door opener to other artists, because he has a recognizable name and has many works that many have let themselves be impressed and enthusiastic about, and that can also make more people interested in other Norwegian artists. The message of visual art will hopefully be attached by the Storting, and when it does, we will also have the back coverage of the National Assembly to follow it up in our political work. In the big news, we are very clear that we have high ambitions in this area, too, and it is natural that it will be followed up in future budget proposals – without us even now being able to conclude with regard to how. But there is a signal that comes to light in this message, and I look forward to having a discussion and a confirmation during today's day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1276	I want to thank the interpellant for raising the question of Munch. Too many of us have Munch's life and seem a different dimension to the art itself. He must have written that without fear and sickness he could never achieve everything he has done. The significance of his art is underlined here in the debate. His art is too valuable to be able to manage it properly, hindered by political paralysis. Oslo is sitting on a treasure of dimensions. If we are to get a good solution for the museum, we need to be able to make the decisions that are necessary to take care of these art taxes. That's not what Oslo Municipality has done. Citizens have not provided for a broad and stable majority of their options. In Oslo they were not willing to negotiate with the opposition on the choice of the winner’s draft in Bjørvika in 2009. In fact, the interpellant party voted for a new architectural competition, but the dark blue – the Advance Party, Right and Left – voted for the building. The Progress Party changed its mind in the context of the municipal elections and overturned the majority for ‘Lambada’. This should be a lesson for the Christian People's Party and the Left, in terms of cooperating with the Progress Party in cultural policy. The Progress Party and the Oslo City Council broke budgetary negotiations due to an agreement concluded between the Progress Party and the Right in the summer of 2011 on a maximum price for cultural buildings in Bjørvika. It turns out that the agreed maximum price for the Main Library and the Lambada had to be exceeded, among others. because of the basic conditions. ‘Lambada’ was voted down in Oslo City Council in December 2011, but the citizens will still not negotiate with the opposition on how Munch will get a new museum. You don't negotiate by standing on your option – and just that. The City Council was promised a case of placement in 2012, but the City Council is not able to deliver such a case until the Munch anniversary is well under way. Now the bourgeois majority in Oslo agree to disagree on the Munch Museum, and the decision on the new museum has been pushed into the blue. The bourgeois majority appears to be the paralysed of action. The Christian People's Party has been completely silent in the matter since the election. They have not contributed to the debate or to finding a solution to the matter, although they could have had a key role such as that of the parties to the City Council which have had a different view from that of the latter ‘Lambada’. So when the representative Syversen raises this issue in Stortinget, I want to know if he is also raising it against his party traps in Oslo to contribute to a sensible solution and a new, great Munch museum. Will the representative Syversen do that? The same question goes to the rest of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1287	In the previous case, we discussed a concrete proposal on the state's commitment to the establishment of the Munch Museum. Then the worker party representative Stokkan-Grande took up that he did not understand what the non-socialist parties meant in the matter of the location of the Munch Museum. I just want to say to the representative that the commitment to the non-socialist parties is great. We have an engagement to present Munch, and we'll make sure that Munch's works are presented in a dignified way. The previous Minister for Culture has presented a big message on visual art, which we are going to deal with later today. As a front image of the message, the head-by-head section has been used without indicating that the image was created by Edvard Munch and without complying with copyright rules. It shows a little bit of attitude toward the government and the red-green, when they won't publish this in any way, or take it into account. It's as far as it's written something about Edvard Munch in the message, but it's a little short passage. That is regrettable and shows the position. So when is the government going to take its responsibility and make sure Munch gets the showrooms that are worthy of him? I wish we could move in the same direction here in the main hall, together with the government and with the Municipality of Oslo, to get to what everyone wants: a worthy exhibition room. There should be no doubt that it is the municipality of Oslo that owns and has the primary responsibility. But at the same time, there should be no doubt about what the government and the Stortinges think about this matter, and that we take this more seriously than it has shown that we have done until today. It should therefore have been a matter of course that the Minister of Culture was more concerned with contributions in respect of the Norwegian artist Edvard Munch, and at least agreed to go in the same direction. Especially since we saw that Erik Solheim in his time, in 2010, had a great commitment and wanted to interfere in this, I think it's quite natural that the Minister of Culture also does so. And when you're so free that you use Edvard Munch's picture on a front page without saying it, it shows that you have an attitude toward Edvard Munch that I think is deeply regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1298	The theme drawn up by the interpellant is much more extensive than just the issue of the Oslo Museum. It's about the entire administration of Edvard Munch's artistry, and how we as a nation relate to it. I won't say much about the museum in Oslo. It has been said many times that it is a political issue for the capital, and should remain so. To those who have thought that the idea of having the state on such stakes is not thought of from Oslo, I would say that when you come from Bygde-Norway with things you would like to have state support for, you have usually not only located it, you have partly financed it, and you have been given the county council – it has been a long process. So that process has not been done by the Municipality of Oslo with regard to the Munch Museum, and that's where the dog is buried. But I also think it is very important that the state should be in a constructive dialogue with Oslo, and I have not heard that anyone thinks that you should not be. That being said, in 2013 we will celebrate the great painter's 150th anniversary. He is one of the very few truly great international names from Norway. The one you might be able to compare him to is Henrik Ibsen. If you compare what Norway did with the fact that it was 100 years since Ibsen's death, with what you now choose to do to show that it is 150 years since Munch's birth, you will see quite a lot of differences. As far as Ibsen is concerned, there was a committee of its own that worked for years, which had a budget of some 40 million. kr, in addition to having a huge investment with the so-called scientific Ibsen edition. As far as Munch is concerned, the anniversary of the National Museum, which only recently managed to get rid of a program, i.e. a few months before the year comes in, and for a mere start that might have a longer planning perspective than what authorship has. Getting big exhibitions isn't done in a short time. I don't think it would be wrong to say that Norway as a state has neglected in terms of this anniversary, in view of both progress and economic activity. This has been the theme of several times in this room, as has been mentioned, but with slightly different entrances. A theme has been the issue of loan availability. The Councils of Cultural States referred to a 70s loan of Munch's pictures to foreign galleries. It has been noted on the right that it is a pity that Norwegian galleries do not have such an opportunity. The right has proposed that the insurance guarantee scheme applicable to the rest of the world should also apply in the Norwegian context. It would provide a completely different starting point for museums in Norway — which, qualitatively, are fully capable of receiving these images — to be able to show them in a much wider context. As regards the use of Edvard Munch abroad, I also want to draw attention to OCA's project in Venezia, which is just a grip in such a context. It's going to be interesting to see how we're dealing with this in the future. But although the state has neglected, fortunately some private actors are in the process. Petter Olsen, who sold "Skrik", uses this money to build a great museum on Ramma Gard. He also uses considerable resources to restore Edvard Munch's summer house, which is right next door. It's a fantastic bet, which is going to be a good contribution to the year. The savings bank foundation Mutual NOR had a workshop recently in which more than thirty different cultural actors, free theatre groups and other shared experiences and work on programmes to be used through the Munch year next year. So it's going to happen something. But the state has probably not done the job it should have done, and there is reason to take criticism of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1315	There have always been major debates in Oslo involving the artists who belong to the city, and they have not always been so for each other. So sail if Munch chose to legitimize his entire collection to the Municipality of Oslo, chose the same artist in his marine report when he paid taxes, that he would like to note that he did not want a penny of his taxes to go to this Vigeland, which he thought the Municipality of Oslo spent too much money on. So the level of conflict has always been high in terms of artists and artistic location. I would like to refer to the last post I had in the previous case, which was meant to be a play to the representative Syversen. When I heard Yrvin's comments, I believe that there were very good arguments that what I said in my post was right – for the husband of the school electoral rhetoric and the hanging of architecture, which I thought was really reserved for another party. To make nicknames of architecture, I thought there was another party that had monopoly in this hall. It was new to me that the Workers' Party was also on the heel. When you discuss Munch, and a party chooses to use a whole article to discuss for and against the City Council in the capital, it shows me that there is something we had never done with any other artists. If we were to discuss Olav H. Hauge, I doubt that there would have been a long post from someone here in the Chamber against the rapporteur in Ulvik, sail if that was where Olav H. Hauge came from. So this says something about Oslo having a slightly different position in this hall than what it really has. Rune Slagstad has an analysis of this in his book The National strategists: The Norwegian Stortinget has had its homes on the best west side, we've had our airport on the best west side, and deposit representatives have moved in a tiny little triangle in the city and thought it's been the city. Much of the attitudes to Oslo have been influenced by it. Now we've tried to do something about it from Stortinget's side, but I think we should discuss our capital in a slightly different way than we do. So back to today's theme. I have a great sense of the proposal presented by the Olemic Thommessen to be able to spread exhibitions even within the country. Because if you're a student in Norwegian school, this should be part of the cultural heritage you'll be able to do a lot about when you bring it out. When they go around the world, Norwegian schoolchildren need to know their Munch. That's an important part of marketing. But it's like the other anniversary, you get really small. It gets a little puzzled, and it's kind of weird to experience when you visit exhibitions with Munch around the world. I've been in line for an hour and a half in Vienna. I felt a little stupid when I came in and saw the pictures hanging straight up in the street with me, where I could come in without any queue for daily. But the experience of standing in that queue was still an experience that this is an artist that is very important and that we don't understand the potential of. Norway can't get out all the marketing potential that lies in our great artists. It's not just that there's a museum in Oslo, because we also have a lot of other arenas to show Munch – other ways to use Munch as an advertisement. I had hoped that there were strategies to spread art as much abroad as possible, that it had been put in context with how we should communicate the cultural heritage to children and that there had been a much greater ambition for such types of markings. Otherwise, I also hope that we can build a new museum. Now there's a museum that's already planned, to which you can say yes or no. I hope the city council will then agree to that. Everything is at the root of that. If you don't have to start all over again. You can also choose to do that. But if that's the rope you're busy with, I think it's very strange that you don't build the greenhouse that could really be a lift for the area, but that this government is postponing. So I really think there are many other things that are below, than the desire to bring Munch out. So we'd better move focus on what's important in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1326	I agree with the inter-pellant that Norway has not sufficiently recognised and understood the range of Munch's art. And maybe we're like that in Norway that it's only when we see the international significance of what we have to do in Norway that we understand the scope of it. And it's especially international that we've seen Munch's art speak to people -- across languages, across cultures -- and reaches people all over the world, where languages may not extend, but where art can speak to us in a much more direct and honest way. At the same time, I would like to point out that considerable sums have also been used from the community in Norway to preserve this art. And we're just in the initial pit for what this could be in the future. The Seven pointed to comments that we have had in a previous case, which I of course fully agree with, as an example of the fact that the Munch Museum is to be held responsible by Stortinget. But it was a completely different matter we then discussed. It was the National Gallery and the art that can be presented there, and the ambitions of a new national museum. We have big plans to ensure both larger locations and better coverage of the tax we have. Guarantees are also provided for Norwegian exhibitions abroad. It is short and good optimism and innovation that is on the agenda, and we are about to set up a new lighthouse for Norway. I feel convinced that in Oslo – through the Munch Museum – we also get a new lighthouse when you can gather about an alternative. Although I am a little in doubt when I hear the representative Tybring-Gjedde in the previous debate actually cancel the entire project by saying that this does not have the local authority's advice. He even wants to start a private collection of money, and more clearly it is almost impossible to say: For the Progress Party, this whole process has been a process of skins – one has really decided not to afford it. If it's related like that, you might owe it to Oslo's inhabitants to say it clearly. Then I feel that Skei Grande, both in this debate and in the previous debate, describes a reality in which I have problems knowing myself when it comes to the vision of Oslo. Obviously, we have a different view of Oslo than we do of other cities in Norway. After all, it's all our capital. That's where the most important institutions lie. And that's where we really have the opportunity to preserve the great legacy of Munch. So it's clear we're looking at it differently. But it is also important to point out the responsibility of Oslo itself, through the gifts that the municipality has been given the will. And so it's like this, since she mentioned the Nord-Trøndelag as an example, that there are few other places in Norway – no one, I think – that have more government funding on cultural buildings. I also believe that almost all the art and cultural institutions in the North Trøndelag, as she said, depend on contributions from the state and the municipality in addition to the state involvement. In this way, I fully agree with the representative Olemic Thommess saying that you have to do a homework before you come to the state and ask for contributions. Finally, I have registered that the project has been renamed: Lambada. And it's tempting then to take a turn that it's nice to dance. But it's an advantage to dance, to use the same tune, to dance at the same rate and to know pretty much where your partner is. If this gets in place, maybe we'll dance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1341	There's a lot of work you could do here. I would first like to thank the interpellant for a good interpellation. And so it is that the Progress Party is also happy in Munch. I think I made that clear quite many times when I was in the pulpit instead. I also think my colleague, Ib Thomsen, has said that many times. But I understand that if you're from the Advancement Party, you can't be happy with art anyway. Then you're always hanged out. And then to Stokkan-Grande. I hope he listens now. An agreement was reached between the City Council and the Progress Party in 2011 – 17 months ago – that the maximum price again would be Dichman and the new Munch Museum would be 2,695 million. kr. It went on for a year, and then the new cost of the two buildings was estimated at a point between 5.5 and 6 billion. kr. Then you should put the bell on the right cat, and that bell is called the City Council, which then makes this a discussion about how much you appreciate Munch – or not. It's interesting to be in this room today. Not one of the speakers today has mentioned the price – not one. You sit and discuss billions of dollars, but because it's Munch, you say we can't discuss it – we're going to discuss culture now, and then you don't talk about money. But no one can afford to pay it. The state won't, and the municipality can't afford it. That's what's the truth. All those who mass for a new Munch museum are not willing to contribute privately. We have Petter Olsen who contributes, and that's very good. So there are thousands of people who have said that we have to get Munch in place, but they don't give five flat ears of their own money for this. Then I think they should start with it instead of complaining about the Progress Party that actually sets the course by industry. It's natural, as I said instead, that when the state has $4,200 billion. kr on a book, as they call pension funds, which they have not intended to spend on pensions, they could use it here – but they obviously do not intend to use it on culture either. But now they have the money. The municipality doesn't have the money, because you've lived beyond your ability for too many years. It's a shared responsibility we all have that we have lived beyond ability. Each citizen of Oslo owes NOK 40,000. That's a lot of money, and then you shouldn't discuss 3 billion. NOK to a new museum as if money were not a question. Well, that's a question, and that's accountability. To the Syversen, I would like to say that there were so many good arguments that the state should contribute, but when it came to the small extra – to conclude that the state should actually contribute, as we had in the previous case – the Syversen would no longer be involved in it. Now the Council of State called this putting the Municipality of Oslo under administration. I can guarantee on behalf of all the politicians in Oslo City Council that if the state were to contribute by giving e.g. 1 billion. kr, would no complaint of political override by the State. You can be absolutely sure of that, so you shouldn't hide behind it. I can guarantee it. I know the vast majority of the city council, and I get 1 billion. kr from the state to contribute to a new Munch museum, you do not complain about political over-management or you get put under administration – that's fine. So then you can put it behind you. To the representative Yrvin – and that is interesting. First, I must agree with the representative Skei Grande, although Skei Grande, of course, as always, had to cast a little bit of negativity on the Progress Party. She might end it gradually, if she's going to start working with us. But the representative, Mr Yrvin, simply cannot have joined in a single debate. It is absolutely impossible to have attended a debate on the location of a new Munch museum in Oslo and not to have understood that it is called Lambda and not Lambada. It's simply not possible. She didn't even say it, the representative said it repeatedly. If it is not an adviser who has written the post — a school debater? I think I'm going to go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1359	The President will recall that this is neither a school debate nor a debate in Oslo City Council, but a debate in the national parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1362	I'm a little in doubt if I'm going to feel that something has come a little further after this debate. But if you choose to draw out the constructive, which at least I've listened to, there might be some possibilities. First of all, I would like to address this with guarantees regarding Munch's art and domestic ability to get guarantees, which both Skei Grande and Thommessen had in mind. This is also discussed in the big news, so I'm a little excited to hear if there can be anything the council takes on, which can actually bring Munch's art to more people within the country's borders as well. It could be a nice gift at the anniversary next year. With regard to the debate related to the Oslo Municipality and location, the Christian People's Party in the City Council has had its position. We wanted a place in Bjørvika, but we didn't go for Lambda. To Karin Yrvin: There are probably more people who are more fascinated by Lambada than Lambda – I think in many ways, but Lambda is now what the architect has called it. We have actually tried to take a constructive position in the municipality of Oslo by saying that we have not gone for any ultimate demands. That is why we have also said that when that was the way it was, we voted for Lambda – then we have put it in place. I wish other parties had had an as constructive approach as we have had in Oslo City Board. I also choose to grasp the positive state council saying that if the municipality of Oslo turns, she is an active and constructive co-player. I think that is very important for the political leadership of Oslo Municipality to take away from this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1373	Thank you for a debate on an important topic, perhaps very interesting. I'll try to associate some notes with some of the stuff that's taken up. When the representative Tybring-Gjedde characterizes Karin Yrvin's post as a school mat post, I thought it was exciting that someone who wants to use the oil fund to travel a new Munch museum would characterize others as schooling batteries. When the representative Ib Thomsen links much of his contribution to the need for the state to intervene actively and uninvited into municipal processes in the Municipality of Oslo, I recommend the representative Ib Thomsen to keep it in place for his party traps locally. So the representative Thomsen was busy with the crediting of Munch in the big message about visual art. Unfortunately, the representative Thomsen is entitled to have the photographer, and Lillehammer Kunstmuseum was originally credited, and not Munch and the heirs, as it was supposed to be. But it's fixed up to. I record that Ib Thomsen still thinks that there is no mercy. I'll remember that for a later occasion. The representative Olemic Thommessen took up loans between Norwegian exhibition institutions, and I felt that the representative Trine Skei Grande also agreed to it. The Ministry has assessed a proposal for the extension of the guarantee scheme, which is based on the Ministry of Culture, to include loans for items between Norwegian exhibition institutions. So far, one has come to realize that it will not be any particular purpose, since the creation and administration of such an extended system will involve administrative additional work that will not be justified by the additional requests on a case-by-case basis that it is intended to cover. A better solution would be to put forward separate proposals to deal with the cases that may arise between Norwegian institutions, such as the United Kingdom. in the context of the Munch 2013 marking, where this State guarantee scheme in connection with the Munch Jubilee 2013 has been extended to apply between Norwegian institutions. It is simply a weighing-up of what is most cost-effective. The representative Thommessen was also at the Office of Contemporary Art, OCA. It is now publicly known that we, precisely to ensure that OCA works after the intention, will go through operations in an appropriate way and propose any changes, so that priority can be given to participation in the Venezia biennial. The representative Thommessen was also involved in some private initiatives in connection with Munch and the marking of Munch. It is an initiative that I would like to welcome – it is entirely in the spirit of social democracy that private donors complement the public service but do not replace it. On the State side, the large funds given to the National Museum, which also has the task of caring for Munch, are part of our contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1388	Case No. So 6 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1402	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1411	This is a fairly simple matter in the first place: an adaptation of the charging system to a new era. If this matter had been well prepared, I think it had slipped through the treatment in Stortinget without any special comments. The problem is – it turns out – that the legislative proposal has been out for consultation with a very short period of time, and that the hearing bodies involved clearly state that they are very concerned about the mechanism it is now being implemented, because it has not clearly described how to recover the future fee. The practical consequence is that the burden on small and medium-sized cinemas may become disproportionate. The opposition is concerned about the development of this, and we do not feel sure that this matter has been properly investigated so that it could be started. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are promoting the proposal as proposal No. 1, which in short is a return proposal with a message to improve the job. It's like: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the film and videogram laws, after consultation of interested parties in order to ensure sound treatment.’ Of course, there is a longer consultation. We also assume that there must be a dialogue between the ministry and the hearing bodies that will enable us to clearly describe how the fees will be applied to the individual cinema. From this point of view, I would like to refer to the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1430	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1433	As the case's rapporteur, Olemic Thommessen, mentioned, the government in the 2013 budget has proposed replacing the pre-control fee for films with a new fee – a matter which initially appears to be very simple and straightforward. The reason for changing the scheme is that the fee mechanism we have today is adapted to the old analogue film distribution. Most of the fee revenue was collected from the analogue film distribution by the clearing of distribution copies of cinema films. But, of course, the digitisation of cinemas means that distribution copies no longer function, and with that, most of the fee revenue has disappeared. The Government has therefore proposed a change in order to continue to ensure income to finance the film control of the Media Authority. It has been a very short time to deal with this issue, and the explanation is also very simple: this is essentially a legislative adaptation to the draft budget. Just because the matter was presented in the budget, it could not be sent out for consultation until the budget was presented. In addition, it had to be submitted to Stortinget before 10 November. It explains that there has been a very short time on the handling of this matter. But it's not to suggest the fact that there's been too fast in the swings, and that there's been a mistake in presenting the proposition. Through the Committee's work on the matter, the Ministry has informed us that the proposal that was promoted could have made it unprofitable for film distributors to put films in small and medium-sized cinemas. The Ministry of Culture has therefore entered into dialogue with the cinema and film distributors to find a new model that will not have such unfortunate consequences. The majority have therefore made the necessary changes to the legislative proposal in the committee position so that the Ministry of Culture can find good solutions for the collection of fees in cooperation with the parties. This means that, instead of adopting an amendment to the law that says that the fee is fixed by the Stortinget, the majority of the Committee has amended it to establish the fee by the Ministry. In this there is no drama. The current charging system was set up in the same way, and in addition, we now have a solution with which Norwegian cinemas and film distributors will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1448	I agree with the rapporteur that this is, in principle, a simple matter which should really have gone through in the Storting without debate. It is unlikely that in my nearly 16 years at Stortinget, I have experienced that the government is presenting a case that is so to those degrees poorly prepared in terms of the consequences. It is also poorly prepared with regard to those affected by the case. I think the Council of State should be happy that the government has a majority behind it here on the Stortinget, which brings the Council of State out of a very embarrassing situation. When the chairman of the committee justifies this fact that there has been a short period of time between the presentation of the budget and the adoption of the legislative decision, it is not an explanation; it is simply an exodus. The normal process is to send these kinds of cases to the hearing so that relevant parties are allowed to make their views known within reasonable timescales, and then it can be presented. It is not that it is a state secret that you intend to make this change and you have to wait until the state budget is presented. This is where a very bad job has been done by the Council of State. Fortunately, many different organisations and those affected have responded. We have received a lot of good input from those who have been affected by this, and it has also been the basis for the Progress Party, the Right and the opposition in the Committee to send it back. There has simply been a delete job in that way. I have to say I'm a little excited about the state council's articles. Are we now going to hear a government council that has the typical labor party arrogance in this room, or are we going to hear a government council that is humble considering the bad job done to the Stortinget? It's very special that we have a change to the law that's part of the state budget. In other words, the government has done such a bad job that Stortinget – at least a minority in Stortinget – does not want to treat it, since it has not been treated well. There has been such a bad job that the Council of State actually admits it in the letter of reply sent to Stortinget after the question from the committee. The Council of State states that the Ministry of Culture will engage in dialogue with the cinema and film distributors with a view to identifying a model that will not have such unfortunate consequences. In other words, the Council of State admits that there are unfortunate consequences, but wants a mandate to engage in dialogue. What kind of authority is that? Then you've got everything you're asking for, and if you're going to have a dialogue, you have this kind of dialogue in front of you, before you come up with the legislative amendment, and not afterwards. I am excited about the Council of State's comments on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1463	The President will say that the use of words such as "arrogance" is unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1466	I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposal to replace the so-called film control fee with a sector fee. In the film and video programmes, this is a small and technical change. It is the word ‘fee’ which one has replaced with the word ‘fee’. Nevertheless, how film control in the media is financed can have significant consequences, both cultural policy implications and economic consequences, for the sector concerned. It is therefore an important matter. In the light of the Committee's comments from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, I need to recall the background to the government's proposal. The movie control was previously largely financed by the fee for the clearing of 35 mm distribution copies of cinema films. The digitisation of cinemas has now led to a loss of distribution copies and thus a significant decrease in the fee revenue of the Media Regulatory Board. In 2011, the fee covered almost one third of the expenditure related to the scheme. This year, the number will be even lower. We therefore saw that covering the costs through today's fee would require a multiple of the fee rates, which we were concerned about would have a negative impact on the import of narrow, artistic films into Norway. I would assume that a wide, high-quality film offering is a measure of more than one government party. I am therefore pleased that the majority want to allow the department to define the details of the fee model. It will allow the Ministry to identify a model that everyone can live with and that takes into account cultural policy objectives of breadth and quality, both in film imports and in cinema services. I record that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are critical of the process in this matter and think he is showing little respect for the parties involved. To that end, first of all, I would say that the conversion to a sectoral tax is a budgetary matter, and budgetary matters are not sent out on a hearing. That is why only a short and limited hearing of the purely legislative follow-up to the budget case was carried out. The short period was related to the follow-up of a budgetary matter, which could therefore not be sent until the budget was presented. Secondly, I would like to point out that immediately we were aware that the case could have negative consequences for the cinema, contact the department of all the cinemas in the country and the organizations in the area to get their point of view. Since then, we have taken a number of recordings, and the cases have been discussed at a hearing meeting in the ministry. Now we consider, among other things: different alternative models developed by the Film & Kino Association. I think this shows respect for those who are involved in the matter. With the changes in the law currently being passed on by the majority, the ministry will have the opportunity to find a solution that will cover the costs associated with film control and that will be living with, both for film importers and cinemas – I am delighted. I can also tell you that the department has good dialogue with the actors involved and that we aim to arrive at a model that can come into force from the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1482	I thank the Council of State for a technical review of the matter, but it does not really affect what is essential in it, and that is the impact this has on the actors involved. One cannot hide from the fact that this is part of the budget, and that one has not had the opportunity to obtain information about the consequences of this earlier, because the Council of State points out in its statement just how long it has taken to make this change. In other words, you would have had the opportunity, if you had wanted it from the department. Let me ask the question: Has the Council of State been aware of the consequences of the amendment? If the Council of State answers no, you haven't done a good job. If the Council of State answers yes, arrogance has been shown against those affected. I'm excited about the Council's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1490	It is my general opinion that it is always possible to have better processes when working with different matters in the department, probably elsewhere, and probably in this case as well. When it comes to this process, we have had a written hearing, we have had a hearing meeting, we have had dialogue with the industry afterwards, and the department now assesses alternative models for a fee presented by Film & Kino itself – that is their model. So important are their assessments and the consequences of this conversion for them, for us, that we have had a close and close dialogue with them in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1495	If there's no more drawing, I'd like to do another line. I thank the Council of State for the answer, where it is widely acknowledged that there has been a bad process, but I'm not getting it all the way to voting with the post that the Council of State held. There it is pointed out that the process had to be as it was, because this was a budgetary matter and it has not been possible to send it out to the hearing. Now I think the Council of State should decide whether this has been a good process, or whether the process has been according to the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1502	Both answers are correct. The process has been in line with the state budget. We have followed the laws and regulations that apply in this area, in this process. It's important for us to have company actors, listen to their recordings, and that's also why Film & Cinema has been involved in developing the model that is the starting point for what we're working on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1507	Are there any others that have drawn themselves into lines? I don't get another one?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1512	No, you've got two lines. The cord shift has therefore been completed. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1530	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1541	It's the first time a big message is presented that takes on a comprehensive review of the visual field of art. This message will contribute greatly to raising the visual field of art in Norway. But the message in itself had not been alone, it would not have been for the active and supreme living art and cultural life we have. I would like to commend the artists' organisations, associations, networks and artists for creating and sharing all the diverse and inspiring art we have access to in this country, and for being so active in the process, both with input to the work of the message and with clear feedback afterwards. I would also like to say that we have patient artists, who have been waiting to lift their field. I'm glad that it's the red-green government that does this uplift. There are great ambitions in the message, and I am happy that she has been drawn so well against it. Yes, someone has even characterized this message as a paradigm shift in art policy. Although the hearing gave us feedback on points that could improve, there was a great deal of connection and enthusiasm around the message. I'm glad. It's important to pay more attention around this field. Increases in population growth across the country are particularly important for the government party, as well as increased professionalisation. It is good to be able to say that there is a joint committee that thinks this message will contribute to this. The majority in the committee, if one ignores the Progress Party, believes it is important that the visual arts field be strengthened throughout the country. The majority believe it is important that we in the message assess increased support for the museum with art collections. Furthermore, the same plural believes that it is an important highlight that the government will provide support for several art halls, art associations and art centers. There is a joint committee that is happy to increase support for art halls, and there are many art associations that now have great ambitions to develop into this, such as Tromsø, Oslo and Porsgrund Art Associations. For the Workers' Party, it is important that one reaches the maximum possible level of visual art, and that the most likely to participate in art experiences. Bet on art in the public space is something I think is very important to achieve this goal. I'm very proud that we in Norway have such a system of state and municipal art in the public space. Here, when one comes out to a broad, composite audience, and some places in the country, works of art in public space are the only art that is widely available. Norway has a well-established art policy in public space, which is thoroughly mentioned in the message. I want to point especially to art in the public spaces of the municipalities. Trondheim Municipality has an arrangement that stands in a special position with its part at 1.25 p.m. of the total investment budget of the municipality. The municipality of Trondheim has built one of Norway's largest collections of contemporary art in the public space over the past ten years and has both national and international honours for the decoration scheme. The betsing in Trondheim has benefited the people of the entire city – it concerns kindergartens, schools, hospitals and the general urban image. The drama municipality also makes a special effort for art in outdoors and urban development, which the committee got a good and inspiring insight into when we were visiting there last week. I would also like to refer to the cultural house Buen in Mandal, as a good example of how to reach new groups through alternative viewing arenas. There they have co-located libraries, cultural schools and cinemas with a gallery. There are a lot of alternative viewing venues, and I think what they've done in Mandal is a brilliant example of how to do this. There's a good art project in public space going on all over the country, especially in the context of school buildings. It's so incredibly important that one gets the art out of the learning space. I've been to too many schools where the most beautiful art hangs on the learning room, and not out among the kids. It is important to continue the efforts both from the state side, from the state side and from the municipalities' side, so that the greatest possible experience of art can be gained. The new museum building for the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design at the Western Railway is an important offensive initiative and will be an important highlight for the visual arts field. In addition to the new opera building, this will be among the largest cultural construction projects in Norwegian context, and there is a joint committee that points to the government's goal of raising the visual arts field in the same way as the opera house in Bjørvika has lifted opera art. The Committee's plurality, once again unbecoming the Progress Party, supports the government's proposal to establish an organisation support scheme for the visual arts field under the Norwegian Cultural Fund. Furthermore, there is a joint committee that shares the government's view on the need for a review of today's agreement on exhibition allowances. There is a need to see the real production costs of the exhibition, and I think it is important that the government will take action to make visible that the artists' work is a central part of the art production. So I want to refer to the proposed changes to the grant schemes. Here it is important for the majority in the Committee, apart from the Progress Party, that the grant schemes benefit more artists and that the schemes become more flexible. Therefore, we support the government in phasing out the guarantee income and establishing long-term work grants. It is important to point out that no one with guarantee income today will lose it. Furthermore, there is a single committee that supports the government in the conversion of the grant scheme based on the completion of art training. Such a scheme is today, it is very unfair, and after the scheme has been established, scholarships will be linked to the creation of artistry and be application-based. So that's the usual thing, that we get criticism from the opposition to be governing. I don't agree with that. I think it is quite right to pursue a policy that gives the whole country – children, young people, adults and the elderly – good access to artistic and cultural experiences, and that we should not let market forces alone control this. If that were the case, it would not have been that much artistic freedom and diversity. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we have the same hope and expectation of lack and inclusion in cultural life that we have for the rest of society. I notice the opposition's criticism and the claim that we don't see the art's self-esteem either. That's wrong. We see the self-esteem of art, and we also make it easier for him to stand out. But we also see the great ringing effects of art and culture, and after a debate in the Stortinget here in May, the representative Thommessen from the Right asserted that there would be no great art of paying attention to the lack or bet on children and young people towards institutions. I'm going to say that I have a number of examples that are completely wrong. We consider institutions to be part of society, and the inclusion idea should be central to their activities as well. For the visual arts field, this is an important day. I would like to repeat that this is the first time we are dealing with a big message that takes care of the entire visual field of art in Norway, and I look forward to the further work and follow-up of the message. I also look forward to further cooperation and good dialogue with the actors in the manifold art life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1575	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good presentation and a good review of the whole matter. She explained where we agreed and where we disagreed. The communication is important to raise the visual field of art in Norway — there is no doubt about it. I would like to address some of the points that the Progress Party considers important. The message has provided room for a thorough mapping and artistic description of the field. Then you can discuss the front page of the message itself, where you've used Edvard Munch. I didn't think it was so dramatic that there was no forgiveness for doing that – I just wanted to point out that you could bring Edvard Munch in the message too. But enough about it. As far as possible, it is important to ensure a good supply of high quality, and this is a matter for the Committee. I would like to give an example that I think is important, and I would like to stress that. There's something called Outside Art Artists. It is practitioners who in some form have intellectual or learning difficulties, who live or have lived on the edge of society, and who also need, and want to have, the opportunity to express themselves through artistic creative and performing activities. This committee has been and visited. The South Trom Museum has taken responsibility for this at the Trastad Collections. The museum has done a brilliant – I would say excellent and excellent – job for these artists. This is touching, and it's an important area that we have to focus on. Visual artists are to be honoured, the Progress Party has said in the setting. In my view, they are to be honoured for exhibition missions at museums and exhibition venues, and especially where the museums receive public support. This should be a common practice, as it is for decorative purposes. You have to equate this, so that you actually get paid for the job you do as an artist. To me, it's a matter of course. An exhibition-related scheme will be a major carrot to promote the activity and production of performers and, in the next round, provide the basis for more public activity at the country's museums and exhibition sites. There's no doubt, if you take this seriously, that this will be a carrot. Exhibition fees will also be important to promote audience-oriented artists engaged in the dissemination of art to the public. It is an important point for the Advance Party and not least for the artists who are concerned about it too. Exhibition remuneration should also be modernised by establishing greater predictability in the calculation. The system of state scholarships and artists’ guarantee income has its background in a system called the country’s “artist’s salary” established in the 1860s, which lasted for 100 years. The system was also called poetry, but not just poets who got it. There were several artists, and this was expanded gradually. The revision of the 1960s was revised in the 1970s, and the guarantee income as we know it today was introduced in 1977. Artists receive guarantee income until the end of activity or at the age of 67. This should be looked at. If this has the right effects, if this has the right seed tanks, I ask myself. New schemes should be based on – and supported by the Government Progress Party – grants based on the completion of art training. It would have been great if newly educated artists could get seed support when they go out, and that old established artists were not premiered at the expense of newly educated people. Today's system is unfair, as some courses give scholarships when you're finished, while others, similarly, do not give it, and the scholarship is awarded regardless of whether you're an artist. The conversion will result in the grant being linked to the creation of artistry, and it will be application-based. What's also interesting is to figure out more tax incentives. It should be considered, I think it would have been quite natural. Gift-enhancing schemes should also be considered, looking at the purchasing systems. Then you have the establishment of the National Museum. There is no doubt that the Committee has agreed. What we do not agree on when a national museum is set up on the western runway is: what is it supposed to contain? How big is this supposed to be? The Progress Party has said that we want to keep the National Gallery where it is today, with the gold frames, and then you see what you need when you set up a new museum on the West Railway. Then we imagine the modern art in this museum. But we haven't got that discussion in Stortinget. We don't know what this costs, we don't know what it should contain, and how big it should be. So let's get the case to Stortinget, and make sure everything is illuminated, and you see what's needed for the National Museum of the West Railway to contain. Evil tongues say that it's hardly enough bigger than what you've had today. So I hope that we now get a proper presentation of that matter. I would like to promote the proposals to which the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1601	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1604	It's great that we've received a message about visual art. There is a nice summary and review of this whole field, and it is very good in the message. The rapporteur has well explained what we agree on, and what we do not agree on, but very much we agree. One thing is what comes up in committee, another thing is that here there's a broad review of a lot of substances that we haven't really considered so much, and I think you can interpret that in the sense that these are uncontroversial things. The design of our visual everyday life takes place mainly outside the political space, at least primarily. The will to invest in this, the will of the public to initiate decorative projects and to stay with museums, is linked to the public interest surrounding art, and the public debate surrounding art life. In this respect, this communication is also important, simply because it brings forward this review, it brings out a debate and public attention that serves the whole field. Now that it is said that the Right joins the message in a big grip, I would nevertheless say that our starting point is probably a different main course – or at least a corrected main course – than the government adds. We believe that the message has a rather one-sided production focus, while adding to a set of instruments that would strengthen the demand perspective. The Year Survey for Artists shows with all due clarity that there is a need to strengthen revenue. There we think one could be more creative, come up with more suggestions and have a clearer course towards how the arts are built and the revenues strengthened. We have then proposed five concrete things, which we believe will strengthen precisely this perspective, with the somewhat varied support of the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party. We propose: an action plan for the incorporation of better remuneration schemes a gift-enhancing scheme for the Art Museums' Purchasing Fund, a scheme of grants for the consulting of private decoration missions in public spaces, an assistant scheme aimed at providing established artists with the opportunity to hire newly educated artists as assistants to a grant scheme to strengthen participation of Norwegian Galerists in international art fairs; Let me link some comments to the individual proposals. Firstly, in the case of remuneration schemes: there has been a partial meeting of the Government in particular in the notification, pointing to the possibility of a pilot project, and at least that one will investigate it. This is an old thing that we've been working on for years. There have been various forms of remuneration in Norwegian art life for perhaps 20 years, possibly more. We know a lot about this. It's really just a question of finding the money and finding the recipients. I think it should be obvious that state-funded art museums that hold exhibitions that do not have a purpose for sale are given a consideration that could strengthen the revenue of the artists it is about. Then we propose a gift-enhancing scheme for the art museums' purchasing funds. The purchases in the art museums are a recurring headache for Norwegian museums. It's very little money. Even at the National Museum, it's rather tight in relation to what you might want, not to talk about the more regional art museums. A gift enhancement scheme would inspire private contributors to provide funds for purchases. This is the good tradition for – there are many donors of art in Norway. At the same time, the art museums have purchasing committees with high integrity. We know many stories about insulted donors of gifts that have been rejected by the Purchasing Committee. I don't think there's any danger that you'd be led into anything wrong even if you had a system where the state contributed to the purchases, maybe like a system in addition to increasing the purchase funds in the museums. Then you would simply be able to get more money out of it. Then we promote a proposal for government grants for consulting and private decoration in public spaces. Many public spaces – not to say most when you look here in streets and places – are private farmyards that control. Many of these have an interest in decorating, but perhaps it is a threshold to overcome in order to gain good competence and enhance competence in these decorative projects. We think that a separate scheme for this would help to put this on the agenda in several expansion projects. This is something the architects would be aware of and work for, in order to strengthen the public spaces of which they are the creators today. We think this would be a good move to strengthen both the visual quality and the artistic presence of our public spaces, so we're proposing this. Then, strongly inspired by the Society of Young Artists, we have proposed an assistant arrangement for newly educated artists with a view to transferring knowledge from older artists. This we think is a very creative and good proposal. Being in an assistant position, apprentice position, has centuries of traditions in art life – transferring knowledge. The knowledge we're talking about here is not just about transferring knowledge about how to build up an artistry, i.e. in relation to exhibitions, marketing and that kind of thing, but it's also about transferring handheld knowledge, about the development of the arts in a one-to-one relationship, which I think will be very interesting to follow up. I think it would strengthen the way of young artists into a rather demanding everyday life where one faces a field that also has strong commercial players, who have gallery players, who provide opportunities, but who also demand their own. Then we believe that there is reason to look at the dissemination of Norwegian art abroad. I have noticed that I have been purchased here. The Council of State has saved itself for a question in this matter by addressing the matter of OCA. It's a lot to say about OCA, and I expect that we'll get the chance to get back to it, but I think you have to take over that OCA no matter what you figure out, hits pretty narrow. There is a relatively small proportion of Norwegian art dissemination that could happen through OCA, at least with today's model. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has its system, but building the arts in the international, large, commercial market, which is a very large market, is a gallery job, with all that means. Unfortunately, we have relatively few gallery players, if any, who have their backs enough to go out and be participants at the big fairs. It costs a lot of money to do it, and it is demanding to get in and get in position. We are proposing a subsidy scheme for Norwegian gallerists just to get this done, and to build up at least some galleries in Norway that will be able to carry Norwegian artists' names around the world. Among the world's 500 most traded artists today, it's one Norwegian, and it's Bjarne Melgaard. So it was a little bit of a surprise for me to notice that 250 are Chinese, but maybe there's something we can notice in this part of the world, that in the west we're not as unique in these areas as we would think. But anyway, I think it's a little bad that the government parties haven't met any of these proposals. In total, they spewed out another course that is simply more demand-oriented, which would give a more independent art life, and thus be more exempted also in the power debate we have around Norwegian cultural life. I am addressing the proposals to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1650	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1653	In SV we are very pleased that there has been a development of our own big message on visual art, the first in history. It provides a good and thorough overview of the case and has been well received by Kultur-Norway. As has been said, imagery has now finally been seen and respected as a public input. The message shall contribute to raising the art field necessary. The rapporteur, Mr Lagen Waogslid, showed in a very enthusiastic and very positive way the good work that has been done, the commitment of the art organisations and a number of good examples around the whole country. The imagery is important because it can give experiences and recognitions that cannot be achieved through other forms of art and media. The good visual art can ask questions, engage and provoke, but it can also give us beautiful visual impressions in our everyday lives. Divergence in visual arts and crafts is therefore important. It is important that high-quality visual art reaches the highest possible level across the country, and we believe that the message can contribute to this. There is a relatively comprehensive communication and much that had merited attention in this article — there are disseminations and target groups through different measures such as: The Cultural School, the School of Culture, Arts in School and the Cultural Spaserstick, increased support for museums with art collections and support for several art halls, art associations and art centres, or the strengthening of exhibition venues and bets on art in public space as well as knowledge production and research on culture in general and the visual arts field in particular. The establishment of an organiser support scheme for the visual field under the Norwegian Cultural Fund is also worth highlighting. I will now focus on the importance of ensuring increased professionalisation and good framework conditions for artists. It is important to have good tools both for the use of works of art — through display, fees and purchases — and for the production of art, including securing income and scholarships. Artists must be given the opportunity to live by their art. Of course, this must mean that artists all over the country have equal opportunities. Good, long-term and predictable working conditions are essential. It is important for SV that visual artists are economically ensured through long-term scholarships and exhibition fees to compensate for the particular practical and economic challenges they face as non-institutional creative artists. Artists in the visual field often have high production costs, and the revenue opportunities associated with sales are usually limited to a very small number of copies. In SV, we are therefore pleased that it is now pointed out that visual artists and artisans need to make visible, to a greater extent, total production costs, including work effort, so that the total cost of the art projects becomes visible. The message announces a review of today's exhibition allowance agreement and a pilot project is being considered to test an exhibition fee scheme. This is for the benefit of the artists and through the audience – and hopefully also for increased sales opportunities. The message announced a conversion of today's guarantee income to two new, long-term grant types. For SV, it has been essential to ensure that it will still be possible for established artists to receive long-term scholarships that can provide predictable and relatively long-term employment. Ideally, SV wants an extension of today's 488 GIs, but is pleased that the funds for them are maintained in the State budget and converted into grants to be awarded for a period of 10 years, with the possibility of renewal and scholarships for senior artists. I have registered a certain impatience in some artists' organisations to get the regulations for new scholarships, but I expect the work to be started soon. The message makes a large-scale effort on visual arts and crafts and is an important contribution to the continuation of the cultural promise. It is with pleasure that I handle it today, and I look forward to further follow-up of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1676	The concept of visual art is relatively new, but both visual art and craftsmanship, which are two of the main elements, we have been dealing with here in the country almost infinite times. Design and architecture are also elements within the visual area, and we should not forget photos, drawings, graphics, sculptures, videos/films, installations, street art and site development. Visual art is therefore a broad and exciting field, and a field that needed to be raised in its own big message. Image artists and other artists in the field have waited a long time for such a message, which will help raise the reputation of the visual arts field. That's what they said at the hearing. So there has not been an overall review of this field of art in the past. A thorough job has therefore been done with broad dialogue and experience in the work on the notification. The Communication contains a number of proposals to strengthen the visual arts field and will provide a basis for future policy developments and initiatives in the field. The red-green government wants Norway to become a cultural nation. We have implemented the Cultural Promises I and II. We will also bet on raising culture further forward and, through such a bet, will focus on this field. It is an important objective of the government parties that everyone should be able to participate in an active cultural life and experience a diversity of cultural offerings and artistic expressions. Creative art shall contribute to both the renewal and development of society and of individuals, and it is in our red-green policy that geography or social divides should not determine access to art and culture. The National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design, which is located at the Western Railway, will become a profiled museum of international importance. The initiative will be equally important for the visual arts field as the opera house in Bjørvika has been for the opera environment. The new building shall be a vital meeting place between the audience and art and an expression of an offensive bet on the visual arts. Art halls are relatively new in Norway. Sometimes we are a little slow in Norway to look for new trends. The same is true of art halls, but now we see that there are more and more of these. Art halls are a great circulation venue that doesn't produce exhibitions for profit. The government wants to support both art halls, art associations and artists' centers. Norway has long had an established art policy for public works and public spaces. The message highlights the importance of taking care of and developing it further. Due to the privatisation of state activities, a number of institutions fall outside this scheme, which is worrying. The central party therefore meets an evaluation of the scheme, including: to see the practices of the exempted State undertakings in relation to decoration. Art has also been used in transport facilities. National tourist roads are a successful example of a system that has made art available to the public in public space. Thanks to important measures, we have a public art turnover of nearly 600 million. kr per year. This is very important to have a diversity of performers in Norway. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the market needs to be further developed in order to strengthen the best artists, and that private people should contribute to decorating the public spaces. How they think they can do this is not made clear in their comments. The centre party is very much in favour of good cooperation between the private and public sectors, including in the visual arts field, but it is clear that if Norway is to continue to develop as a cultural nation, public efforts are very important. The propulsion party clearly signals that they do not want to be involved in strengthening the visual field of art. They support the phasing out of the guarantee income for artists and believe it is wrong to come up with new schemes. They believe that artists should live on their own income, regardless of state subsidies. This at all reminds us strongly of the slogan «Get rid of the farmer» – just now it is called «Get rid of the artist». I'll ask: free to what? It is asked whether the Party of Advancement or the Right cultural policy will win in any government cooperation between these two parties in the future. I hope on behalf of the cultural field that it won't be necessary to figure it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1714	The Christian People's Party is pleased – and it's a joy we share with the entire committee – that the visual arts field has now received its own great news. The Storing Message also provides the basis for the field to have a forward-looking uplift. After all, budget management in the autumn has also shown a cross-political willingness to carry out such a promise. In the Communication, there is a broad consensus on how this should be done – which has been discussed by several speakers. The Christian People's Party, together with other opposition parties, is concerned that we not only get a too one-sided focus on the livelihood of the individual artist as such, but more focus on developing the basis for artists to communicate and live by reaching out to their art. Other speakers have been more involved. I want to complement what has been said so far, by noting that the Christian People's Party is concerned that we exploit the different environments – the competence – we have in different parts of the country also in the state bet in the field. It was noted at the hearing, among other things. The museum association, and I think it's worth taking with me. I am also pleased that the entire committee points out that Birka plays an important role as a national centre for art and crafts. Then I would also like to highlight the importance of Outsider's Art, which fortunately an overall committee has lifted the importance of, and that we are facilitating the framework conditions for the free exercise of artists who have a background that makes them live a little on the edge of society, and that it is arranged for them to be able to exercise their art in freedom. I think that's important not just for those involved, but it's important for us as a society that we facilitate it. The rapporteur was concerned to a large extent with the debate on governance of the cultural field. Here there is a disagreement between the Christian People's Party and the government parties, and it is again apparent in the message. In Chapter 19 of the Communication on Cultural Diversity, there is, in fact, a very strong report from the government. It's called – on page 191: ‘The Ministry of Culture requires all enterprises receiving State support to develop new ways of working to ensure inclusion and cultural diversity through its ordinary activities. [[by letter of grant and allocation]] Inclusion and cultural diversity shall form a natural part of programming, organisational development, recruitment and public works and in institutions’ strategies in the short and longer term.» Yes, this is not about whether we are concerned that the art should reach all children, young people and adults across the country, on which the case rapporteur was involved – we are all agreed on that, and it is not controversial either – but it is about what the case rapporteur was about in his next sentence, that we should be able to manage the institutions in line with everything else we give money to. No, there's actually a difference between culture and state enterprises, state agencies and directorates. The essence of this discussion is to recognize that cultural life is not just part of a free society with freedom of expression, but it is actually a key to the practice of a free society with freedom of expression, where all voices can be heard. Then the kind of wording that I have referred to is, directly, unhealthy – to use a cautious term. We know the history of the visual arts field in Norway. You can, for example: Ask yourself if Christian Krohg could have painted «Albertine in the police room» under the conditions – if you had a government that allowed leaders to stay within the political field. I'm going to leave the question hanging, but that can be thoughtful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1734	I want to start by saying that I think it's very good that we've got a message for visual art. It is very positive, sail if I don't think it is so much new and exciting in it that it deserved a whole message, but it is nevertheless good that the government has tried to extend itself to see a whole field of expertise together. The left is, as we know, not represented in the committee, but after we've gone through the matter, we'll probably see that we support a lot of the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party. I want to make some comments. One is about art in the public space. I think we have a picture of artists who alone, like hungry, in their studios make the most excellent thing we can want of new and exciting art. But today, a lot of the art is being created in interaction with others. Here in the city, for example. It has been decided to use artists in the design of roads and in the design of other public spaces – not to create a public space and invite an artist to decorate, but to actually have artists in the entire process, from drawing a crossroads to building it completely. The crossroads we can see from here – at least me and the President – just down at the Castle, for example, is. designed with artists from the very beginning, in the planning phase of it. It gives an extra dimension to the use of artists and an extra dimension to the art space in the public space that I think is very positive and exciting. It is also important, as the Right and Christian People's Party writes in their comments, that one has regional museums and regional environments that can be involved and push forward both artists, art projects and exhibition projects that are to live for and live off. The only message in the message to which the Left will express scepticism is changes to the grant scheme. We're going to vote for this today, but with some reservations – when we see what kind of results it's going to get. We may not be convinced that the new system is a very good system, but we choose to go for it today to see what effects it will have. I agree very much with the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party on OCA, and I don't understand this fear of fissure and gift-enhancing thinking. It is possible for the government to frame a gift enhancement tank so that you have almost everything under control. It is assumed that the Council of State will approve every time you trigger gifts as well, but very many times we see on the art page that, for example. taxes that should have been in Norwegian ownership, glitches, which maybe also Norwegians would have contributed and split up to have, but where you can't be in that gap because you don't have any incentives to contribute to it. I believe that gift-enhancing can help strengthen how much money we can get into and spend on art and culture in this country. It's going to get hit in a way that gives you total social democratic control all the way down to the smallest little brush stroke – if you want it. There must be something in principle against the fact that there is at all private money in the area that makes you unwilling to think about gift enhancement models at all. If you were happy to control, you could have chosen to control it very strongly. Otherwise, the Left will vote for all the alternative proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1750	Art has a very special ability to be a platform for communication, criticism, challenge and movement. Art has a self-esteem. Art must be free. There's a difference between saying that our artistic institutions are going to work to be socially inclusive and have a broad audience, and saying that art itself is going to be socially inclusive, because the last thing he needs is not to be. It's up to the artist how he wants to design it. I have great confidence in our artistic leaders and their professional integrity in that area. With Meld. St. 23 for 2011–2012, Visual Art, I am proud that the government has presented a comprehensive communication on visual art. I note that the message is well signed against in the professional environment, which of course is very pleasing. In this message, we use the notion of visual art in all respects in the interpretation of art and crafts, but visual art also includes partly design and architecture. This shopping message therefore also includes the Ministry of Culture's management responsibilities in design and architecture. The notification includes both visual art heritage that exists in the art museum, support for contemporary art production and art dissemination, research and knowledge formation. In Norway, we can trace art and crafts back to the earliest cultural memories. Both the Oseberg ship and Edvard Munch have their own self-proclaimed place in the world's art and cultural heritage. We are living today in an image culture, and new generations are growing up with environments and forms of communication that are increasingly based on the visual. This visual culture creates the need to strengthen the entire visual competence. Children and young people should be better equipped to understand the new image culture and to manoeuvre in the new knowledge society. Society has a special need for the artist's innovation and critical reflections. They can challenge public opinion in a way that political speaking cannot. Together with archives and libraries, the museum is the main part of our collective memory. Over the last 10 to 20 years, the visual arts field has undergone major changes. These changes concern the development of new artistic practices, new expressions and production methods, other forms of dissemination, new arenas and a slightly different organisation of the artistic. The art scene today consists of a great variety of artistic expressions and a number of institutions and dissemination arenas spread throughout the country. This gives rise to many different angles of incidence when it comes to both experiencing and valuing art. The government has a vision that Norway should be a leading cultural nation focusing on culture in all parts of society. At the same time, cultural focus is of great importance to other areas of society, such as business development and jobs, integration and inclusion, health, learning and creativity. Through the cultural promise, the government has arranged for a focus on art, crafts and architecture. It will be focused on art and crafts, among others. by developing the viewing arenas. The grant schemes shall be strengthened. It will also bet on art in public spaces. Norwegian architecture and urban development shall be strengthened by a further follow-up to the Government’s architectural action plan. One of the main objectives of art policy is to facilitate the contribution of individual artists to a diverse and innovative artistic life. The framework conditions of artists must be designed in such a way that a sufficient number of visual artists are able to produce a variety of visual artistic expressions. This message also describes how today's artist support schemes work in the light of developments in the field of art. The message is the result of a wide dialogue and experience collection involving central institutions in the field – artists’ organisations, other related professionals and resource staff and more. In connection with the notification work, the Ministry of Culture has inter alia: invited to recorded conferences in Tromsø, Bergen and Oslo with approx. 100 representatives of the various actors in the field of art and public governance. In connection with this collection of recordings for the message work, the Ministry of Culture found that in the field of visual art there is a relatively large consensus in the point of view. It was generally pointed out that strengthening funding through existing and new efforts and strengthening the field of public visibility is a key challenge. There has not been a complete review of the visual art field in the form of a separate message for Stortinget. There is also no current NOU ahead of this staging message. Because of the lack of existing knowledge, one thought it was important that the message provided room for a thorough identification of the artistic description of the field as a basis for analysis. The message will review existing cultural policy tools. A broad description of which elements are included and form the framework for the visual arts field in Norway is given. The challenges, opportunities and needs that lie ahead were identified. The message thus provides a basis for future policy developments and initiatives in the field. Assessments and actions are presented that justify the need for a substantial escalation of economic resource use in the field. This will include, inter alia: proposed a certain conversion and expansion of existing back-up structures in the visual arts field, a new system of visual art organiser support in Norwegian cultural funds and strengthening and extension of some arrangements within the administration of the Culture Council. Furthermore, a strengthening of the field is proposed through increased support for institutions and actions within the Ministry of Culture budget. There is also a need to look at schemes such as exhibition allowances and fees. The purpose of the message is to lay the groundwork for a forward-looking initiative aimed at increasing the professionalisation and strengthening of the field. In addition, the aim is to ensure a variety of high-quality visual arts for different user groups. The goal is to give greater attention to the visual field throughout the country and to facilitate the conditions for increasing audience attendance. The Ministry will help Norwegian artists gain more space in the private and public spaces. I think the government with this big message has laid a good foundation for a necessary boost for visual art. There are extra credits, combined with superior targets and leaders that are good within the arm's length distance principle, which is the main tool of the state. I am pleased that the Storting through the Committee setting has consistently joined the message. With the support of Stortinget, the Ministry will follow up through a prioritisation of the visual field of budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1789	The message is comprehensive. There is no doubt that there is a broad political will to strengthen the visual field, although there are different approaches and devices for how this should be done. We've picked up a few points, among other things. this by honoring artists who have art exhibitions at public-supported museums – something that the government will not attend, but that we believe would have been a good step forward. The second thing we're pointing at is the fissure layer, a gift-enhancing system we think will strengthen the field. My question is: why won't the government and the Council of State agree, when you see that these are measures that will help to strengthen the field in terms of remuneration schemes as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1798	I understand that there were two questions that were asked. One thing is related to gift enhancement – I take it first: our starting point is that we want to make private contributions. I like to encourage it – it can play a role for the individual artist. But I'm generally skeptical that private initiatives should bind public funds, which is usually the consequence of gift enhancement schemes. The second question relates to exhibition allowances and exhibition fees. I think there's a need to make visible that the work of artists is a central factor in the production of art, and it's important that the fees are provided by the budgets, so that the total costs of the art projects are visible. It is necessary to make the real cost of production visible also in intermediary institutions receiving State aid. Therefore, in the message, the government proposes that one with the basis of a review of today's exhibition compensation agreement discusses a possible revision and a possible extension of the remuneration agreement with the artists' organisations to which it applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1805	Now, the Council of State reiterated the argument against gift-enhancing – that private efforts should commit public funds to the purchase of art museums. We're talking about maybe five museums, which are the state-funded art museums. They have all the rules governing the purchase of art, evaluation committees or procurement committees responsible for it. We know that they've spent money, we know that given art purchases they can't carry out, and we know that beggaring for private actors is a well-known phenomenon. You can set a limited amount. Let's say you put 10 million. kr in a pot from which these museums could search. What could go wrong? I don't quite understand what the problem is. The 10 million. kr could be 20 million. kr. Wouldn't that be great? Where's the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1810	I almost have to refer to my previous answer when it concerns the question of gift enhancement. But when it comes to the economic musculoskeletals of our country's cultural institutions, I have to say that through the cultural promise they have been much stronger by seeing a clear economic goal – that 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes. It has meant a doubling of the cultural budget, an increase of 5 billion. kr. It is clear that it also affects the commitment of individual institutions to do the job they are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1815	It is probably true that many have received more money, but the purchase accounts for the art museums have unfortunately not become much bigger, even with the Cultural Promise. The National Museum has a few million, for the other art museums we're talking about some hundreds of thousands. I doubt that many of them have much more than a million to purchase for. If you're going to build a complete collection in these museums, there's relatively little money. I do not think the Council of State answered what was the problem with the gift enhancement system I described. It's full control all the way. It is not that a private actor would direct the development of the museum in some direction, or that a private actor would influence that it was they or those images. One would briefly follow the system that we are following today, but the money would be, for example, double the size.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1822	I have not assessed the model that the representative Olemic Thommess sketches, but in general I am skeptical about gift enhancement schemes because one sees that the consequence may be that it binds public funds in a way that is not appropriate – and that is my starting point. But I'm busy encouraging private donors who want to give more to art and cultural institutions. It's a useful addition to the public contributions that are made, but I'm skeptical that one should bind the public funds because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1827	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1830	Both the Council of State and the representative Andresen described the peculiarity of art by engaging, enjoying and provoking, and then it struck me that it can even smell very bad, as we as the committee experienced when we were visiting New York and were getting to participate in a contemporary art exhibition. I'm not going to describe the smell from the pulpit, but it struck me that it was an odorless, but a good example of the diversity that art represents. I took the word because I want to focus a little bit on the part of the country in which I live. The Council of State also said in its speech that the government has a vision that Norway should be a leading cultural nation focusing on culture in all parts of society and throughout the country. In this perspective, I will highlight what is happening in the northernmost part of the country, and focus on the place of culture in the government's Northern Region Strategy, which is also the focus of the Communication. The Northern Region Strategy has many focus areas. One of them is about participating in cross-border cooperation. Here the cultural area plays an important role. People-to-people cooperation – particularly with Russia, but also with the other countries, such as North Sweden and Northern Finland – is very important, and it is central to the Northern Region policy. Culture, education, sport, child and youth work, and not least voluntary activities, as well as the establishment of meeting places and networks, are important elements. In this context, it may be appropriate to recall that it was precisely culture and sport that opened the closed border gates while the cold war was at its coldest in 1959. It was also the beginning of a warm and close cooperation for us who live in the north and in the border areas. As part of the follow-up to the Northern Region Strategy, the Ministry of Culture presented the Land of Possibilities – Action Plan for Culture in the Northern Areas in autumn 2009. Its objective is to make cultural life visible, secure and strengthen its contribution to the development of the northern regions. It will also help to ensure that the cultural promise also supports and contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. It takes place through a number of contributions to cultural life and cooperation in the three northernmost countries, and not least through the strengthening of Norwegian-Russian cultural cooperation and through increased emphasis on cultural cooperation in other international forums with impact fields in the northern regions. I'm sure that the 200,000 people who each year cross the Norwegian-Russian border do so in the spirit of the people-to-people cooperation, where culture and sport have a central place. In this respect, I would also like to emphasise the cultural agreement that the continent has agreed to develop. As a representative from our northernmost part of the country, it is nice to note that Nordic cooperation has evolved to include strategies also in the visual arts field. We know that the government, through its north-eastern strategy, attaches great importance to contributing to sustainable growth and development in the north, and in a broad commitment that includes culture and cross-border contact. Visual art is part of this venture. And when we see that 17 institutions in my part of the country have taken this seriously by forming KunstNett Nord-Norway, it gives me and my colleagues in red-green cooperation the belief that government's ambitions in this area are not just words, but actions. Finally, while we are in the northernmost part of the country, it is important to mention also the important place of Sami art in our cultural policy. It is our joint responsibility to do this. The ambition is that everyone living in the country will have the opportunity to get to know and get an understanding of Sami art and culture. Strengthening and expanding the field will also have positive effects for Sami artists and for Sami institutions, and it is our common task to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1847	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1851	The new digital literacy message has the following important wording: ‘The regional museums with art collections play an important role together with the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design in building up and managing art collections and disseminating and making them available to the public throughout Norway.’ The Storting message emphasizes that the artistic collections are at the heart of any museum, and that – together with the temporary collections – they build the profile and characteristics of the museums. They are also an important starting point for much of the intermediary activities carried out by the museums, and not least the collections are crucial for research under the direction of the museums, which can help to give us a new understanding of art history. The Storing Message points to the challenges and underlines that it will: «for museums with art collections, the purchase of art items to build up the collection is often a matter of interest». As an action, it is proposed that the Ministry in the budgets of the coming years will seek to strengthen the operating grant to regional museums with art collections and that this strengthening will be earmarked for visual art. These are important signals from a government that has lifted art and cultural life more than any government before, and I am pleased with the wording that the regional art institutions will be built up. And that's no premature political control of art; it's a legitimate right that the government and the majority of the population have to make sure that the art benefits everyone, no matter where you live. To the representative of Håbreek, I would like to say: the art expression in the picture «Albertine in the waiting room of the police doctor», and for that matter in the film «Life of Brian», probably has at least as good conditions under social democratic rule as under Christian rule, if you can use such an expression. Then I would like to point out that in Tromsø we have one of the country's youngest art museums, founded in 1985 – Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum. This is a museum that has built up the collection from the bottom of, a collection that is still to be seen as being under construction. The museum has a national part-covering function and has previously received increased grants to build and refurbish the museum premises. And in the light of this big message, I look forward to the museum further strengthening its ability and ambition to be an important institution in the visual arts area of the whole part of the country – in line with, among other things. the formulation of the Northern Region policy in the field of culture. So I would like to say that it is great that the message opens up for organiser support and means of production for particularly expensive exhibitions and works of art, and I hope that this can also include the transport of art to and from exhibitions. I am also very happy that you have cleared up unclear rules for education scholarships, and that you can now apply for a scholarship. So I would say: Look two Kväfjord in Troms, to Trastad Collections and art made by disabled people, which is very nice!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1875	When you read the hoarding message and the majority comments in the position, it's out of optimism, futures and visions for the field of art. We've had more viewing areas in the last few years. They are more robust, and they reach out to several of our inhabitants. Now, if you read the opposition's comments, it's kind of a dark blur over the same theme. When you read here that «the detailed management of the government threatens freedom of expression, the autonomy of businesses and the freedom of art in society»; I really wonder which world you live in. Because there's something we hear all around the country, and there's a cheer over the cultural promise, there's a cheer over freer lines, there's a cheer over the opportunities to reach out to more and more, and I haven't heard a single one who claims that freedom of speech is threatened. There are two things that I'm not sure about in the opposition's comments, and that I feel need a more detailed explanation. One is to give greater emphasis to the demand perspective. The second is that greater emphasis should be placed on the role of private galleries. That is the one thing I fear can lead to a change of line if you are to have a civil majority. I can take an example: Nils Aas Kunstverksted in Nord-Trøndelag in Inderøy was established by local fire companies. Nils Aas himself would not have such a gallery, unless there was an art workshop where children and young people could come, look at the art of Nils Aas and let themselves be inspired by it, but most importantly – to have the opportunity to express themselves through art, to have the opportunity to shape their own things. What private actor would have taken such a responsibility to give children and young people the opportunity to exploit their abilities? This has been achieved thanks to local fires and public input and support for this type of activity, as well as showing good art. The second is what is called the gift enhancement scheme, which sounds so provocative when presented by the opposition parties, but which of course has several sides. I fear that once such a gift-enhancing system has been set up, it will give rise to a dark blue majority to cut public budgets to the institutions and to leave it to private. It may work in Bærum, but it's not working well in India and in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1892	I think the last speaker went well into exaggerating the differences – I would say – between opposition and position in terms of the direction of the development of visual art, and that we express a desire to strengthen the basis for demand for art. If you ask any artist if you want to live off direct subsidies from the state or if you want to develop a market for their art first, I think the answer would be fairly clear – no matter who you ask, and no matter where in the country it is. It should not, in fact, be so controversial that we want to facilitate the creation of opportunities for artists to live on their own business. If you're going to pursue the reasoning of Arild Stokkan-Grande, you can get the impression that private money smells, while government money doesn't. I believe that – precisely for the sake of art freedom – there is a healthy mix of public support and opportunities for private individuals to contribute and to a diversity of sources of funding. But right at the point of control and leadership that comes with the state funds, I don't want to say that the representative exaggerated the differences between the opposition and the position, because there is a clear distinction here. Here you can talk about a change of course in the direction that if we get a new government, you can say with great certainty that art will get more freedom. I will send the question back to the representative Stokkan-Grande and the representatives of the government parties. I made a quote from the message in my post: ‘The Ministry of Culture shall require all establishments receiving State aid.’ [[by letter of grant and allocation]] In addition, it says: ‘Inclusion and cultural diversity shall form a natural part of programming, organisational development, recruitment and public works and in institutions’ strategies in the short and longer term.’;» Yes, recruitment and organizational development are sounding good, and there may be respect for wanting to put some mild leads on, but my question is simply: what does the word ‘programming’ do in that sentence? What does that mean? Can the government parties provide an answer to what it means that programming is under way and that inclusion and diversity should be included in institutional programming? I have never received an answer to that, and it actually deserves Norwegian cultural life to get a proper answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1913	I get to start with the question that the representative, Håbrek, is asking. I think it's a good and timely question. Please note that this is new. We've had letters of assignment for many years, and it's been about economics, marketing, public statistics and all sorts of things. But in terms of content – i.e. programming work – the Year of Mangfold came to the Council of State Trond Giske. The government has given a clear signal in other staging messages that this is something you want to tighten up. One also wants to strengthen the governance dialogue in the field of programming. It is difficult to understand that strengthened governance dialogue can be about anything other than mixing in whether or not you think the various ideal objectives, each of which is excellent enough, are being followed or not. Remember, we often talk about relatively small institutions, with relatively few programme entries and relatively little volume. If you want to take account of integration, children and young people, health, a couple of national anniversarys, and there are probably also more examples, the snipe becomes quite intrusive when it comes to setting the framework for the artistic content. This is a main course that permeates the whole of cultural policy, and I think it is nice that the government parties go to the barricades for. I just notice that you believe that you are entitled to intervene in such a way. Otherwise, I realized that the representative Stokkan-Grande had problems understanding the word ‘demand perspective’. It is short and well done to strengthen artists' incomes. That interest should be a little more prominent in the message we are discussing. We should make sure that those who do all the research show us that we have a pretty poor income, get a better income and have a better basis for getting money. In fact, there are also private individuals who offer to children and young people. There are approx. 80 private cultural schools in this country. About all ballet classes are private, at least a very large part of it, and there's a lot of work going on there. Barratt Due e.g. is probably the cultural school in Norway that hatches most talents, and really shows a way for Culture School-Norway to raise awareness about working with children and young people. There's a lot of effort going on there, not only about what you get in hourly pay, but also about setting up on Sundays, on weekends, at evening concerts, and now for the week in the Trinity Church with a huge concert, which is done on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1924	I'm just going to have a very short line. I cannot, with my best will, understand how the opposition can find that someone in this message has said that here it should be painted, built or sculpted like this or so, and that the content of the art should be designed like this and so on. Then you've seen something I haven't seen. I was in my time as artistic director and director of one of the country's largest festivals and received letters of assignment from both bourgeois and social-democratic governments. There were formulations that said something about programming, for example: against individual groups that were to be incorporated into their audience. It came in the same way from citizens as from social democratic governments. There was no difference. When we had a bourgeois government with a minister of culture from the Christian People's Party, there was a lot of emphasis on church culture and art. That's what I thought was absolutely excellent, to put it right, but that means, in a sense, a little bit of a hit on the program. This notion that everything about art and culture is going to happen over society is – and now I'm not going to use an unparliamentary expression – a kind of false vision, a kind of shadow vision, that some people have. I think the art is tough enough to go back to society, in all its deportations, and with all kinds of people. The art of hovering over the water is a thing of the past. No one says that someone should write like this, paint like this, or make it and that composition. What we're saying is that when we mean – and I guess all the parties do – that art and culture are so important that it actually has something to do with equality and equality, we also have to make sure that the art and culture, on which we spend public money, benefits everyone in this country. That's what our cultural policy is about -- not about telling you to paint with red, green or blue, or what you make of art is going to look like that or sound like that. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1942	The representative, Håbreek, said it's moving towards a system change, if today's opposition parties are able to figure out. It's okay to get it into place, it's going to be a direction pick. If that happens, I'm very excited about what's essentially going to be about, and who's going to win that game. Whether it becomes a Christian People's Party, which basically supports today's cultural policy and wants some slight changes here and there, or whether it becomes the Progress Party, which has huge cuts in the field of culture as one of its leading agendas. It's going to be a weird acting. There's a complaint about a letter of assignment from the department, and we're being challenged. My answer to that is that we believe that with the ambitions we have for culture and art, and when we see how important it is for children, young people, adults, old people and people who, for various reasons, do not find themselves comfortable in society, it is important that this can spread to as many people as possible. The only thing that the actors are at risk of is that they get more diversity on the stage and that they get more diversity among the audience. That is what we are concerned about, and I cannot understand why it should be presented as a threat to peculiarity, autonomy, freedom of expression, etc. The art is on its own, but with all the great Norway has to offer, we believe that it is important that as much as possible participate in it. For example, Norwegian composers have come to us and said that they find it a pity that Norwegian music is played too little in Norwegian symphony orchestras. I agree with that, and with more focus on it in the program work of the symphony orchestras, more Norwegians can become acquainted with all the great Norwegian music we have, and more Norwegian composers will have the opportunity to live by what they create. What in the world is so dangerous about that? Then, with regard to the debate on the gift-enhancing scheme, we think that it is great with private players who would like to contribute. The problem is when it is going to bind state funds. I'm very skeptical about that. It is presented so nicely: this should contribute to and increase the contribution to culture. But I'm afraid, as we've seen more examples, that it can be a sleep cushion for those politicians who are not willing to bet on culture. We don't need a gift enhancement scheme, because we've shown through the Cultural Promises I and II that we're willing to prioritize culture. But I understand that parties that don't have that ambition have to come up with other creative suggestions to pick up the same funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1958	The representative Thommessen has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1961	The representative, Stokkan-Grande, does not understand the problem of dictating more people to play Norwegian music. There is no problem hearing Norwegian music, the problem is that there might be a distortion of other things you would have wanted to do. The point is that there is an overall government policy that governs cultural life – gradually in many areas. The money bag has grown twice as big. It's "no such thing as a free lunch". It also applies to government money, it has to be safe. So there's a sandwich list with leads. Cultural life has been organized so that those who distribute this money are fewer and fewer people, who get an increasingly large part of the cake to rule over. One has legislation that governs cultural life; one has, in short, an overall grip around cultural life that eventually leads one never to accept in other areas where one talks about freedom of expression. For example, if you wanted to. dictators newspapers to write more about Norwegian music? Would the press support be followed by a more friendly approach to immigration or to children and young people? It's not a thought anyone would come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1968	I wonder if the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande has been wrong today – it's Thursday we're going to discuss the cultural budget. It's a little fun to listen to Arild Stokkan-Grande when he puts out and sends up one rocket after another with horror propaganda about how Culture-Norway is going to be if there's a government change. We are now discussing visual art, and the rapporteur gave an excellent presentation of common comments and things all the parties in the committee agree on in this matter. But there are also disagreements. What the representative Stokkan-Grande is pulling up here is a terror propaganda that has no effect anymore. The cultural budget of the Progress Party is larger than the Trond Gishe was honoured when the government took over seven years ago. Now the government has been running for almost seven years, and they think they have a monopoly on knowing what cultural policy should be like. Culture shall be free and culture shall have a self-esteem, as stated in its observations. That's exactly what the Progress Party wants, too. But we also want to use other means. There are people out there who want to give gifts. They want to be involved and contribute to Culture-Norway. Why then should we refuse them and say no? There must be self-esteem in that others can help raise the culture of the country. With the cultural policy of the Advance Party, it will reach out to the greatest possible extent, which Arild Stokkan-Grande was so concerned that it would not. It will reach out to children and young people, and it is well worth the effort on volunteering. I can at least reassure Arild Stokkan-Grande – we will probably have this debate on Thursday as well – that culture in Norway will continue over the next few years too, with the Progress Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1980	The representative Hope has held the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1983	In short, that is the word. I just want to point out towards the end of the debate that I have quoted the big message on page 192: ‘Inclusion and cultural diversity shall be included as a natural part of programming.’;» I asked, "What does that mean?" I've got a lot of answers that tell me what it doesn't mean, but I haven't yet got an answer to what it means. I'm still wondering why it's in the message, and I'm wondering what that means.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1992	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e1995	Programming in one way or another means addressing different groups, like children and young people, with the multicultural perspective of what you're showing from a scene or towards a hall. The representative Olemic Thommessen has misunderstood – it has nothing to do with saying something beneficial about it or the other. Enlisting to children does not necessarily mean having only beneficial things on the wallpaper. It's not the content, it's about how to address different groups in society. I have not yet understood why this is so problematic. I think it's a skin debate you're trying to pull up, because the desire for programming has been in letters of assignment also from civil governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2000	I would like to thank you for an exciting debate, especially the last part, on artistic freedom. It's a very important discussion that we're also going to have many possibilities to discuss, perhaps especially during the treatment of the cultural budget, but also by other ways of crucifixion. I believe that the quote from the representative, Øyvind Håbrek, comes in a better context if you also quote a sentence from the general letter of introduction that has been sent and that also matches the text of the message that the representative, Håbrek, quoted. The following sentence is added: ‘The Ministry considers that businesses themselves are developing new ways of working to ensure that inclusion and cultural diversity are taken into account through their ordinary activities.’ This is all about seeing cultural institutions as part of society, and not as something entirely on the side of society. We do not want to control the content of art. It wouldn't fall into us. My trust in the professional integrity of the artistic leaders is also so great that I don't doubt for a second that they do what they want with the artistic content. It is also the intention for us to have a free, living cultural life, it is the intention for us to have meaning-breaking and a well-functioning democracy. Tom Remlov is one of those who has written a lot of interesting articles about this. I'm not going to take him to the income for my vision, but he has e.g. write a good article in the Common Era on the relationship between the social mission of the artistic institutions and cultural institutions as part of society, while at the same time institutions for art and culture of the highest quality – and art and culture that are free. So there's no contradiction between seeing the institutions as part of society and letting the content of art come free.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2014	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2028	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2037	The national meeting of the Labour Party decided a year and a half ago to make a change to the key. So, as the first party, we decided on a big sporting initiative, which was a very important decision for Norway's sports federation and the sports movement, a matter for which they had fought for a long time. The Decision means a lift for children’s and youth sport, progress in the construction of sports facilities, and commitment to culture and volunteering. At the same time, we should remember that the change in the key comes in the extension of a number of measures that the red-green government has implemented over the seven years it has been sitting. Just to mention someone, we've introduced the grass root fraction, like, for example, have contributed significant sums to local sports teams and other teams, we have compensated for sport and volunteering by 1 billion. NOK as the automatic income fell off, we have introduced VAT compensation – which has now escalated up to 1 billion. kr – and now we're changing the key, which in three years will add another 0.5 billion to the sport. kr. The Committee now has the sport Communication for consideration, and in this Communication we will have ample time and opportunity to discuss the government’s proposals on how to use these new means of sport and volunteering in a good way. However, I am pleased that the government is pushing ahead with Storting's treatment of the sports report and already in the 2013 budget the phase-in of the games. It's not about small money to be phased in in 2013, it's actually about 80 million. kr, which is distributed between the sport movement and voluntary organisations. It has also been provided for phase-in to take place within three years and to be completed in 2015. This will give sport new predictability and a guarantee that they will realize several of the plans they have for the construction of sports facilities around the country. The Right Party and the Advance Party now believe that this is not going fast enough, but we must not forget that this government has already put in more than 300 million. kr extra to the VAT compensation scheme in the 2013 budget, where more than half go to sport. Nor should one forget that when the money is phased in, the Ministry of Culture is spared – that is quite the opposite: we are further increasing the Ministry of Culture's budget. Nor should we forget that this government has fulfilled all its previous promises to volunteer and sport. What is far more unexplained – and that gets exciting – is whether a dark blue government is able to follow up all its promises. All parties support the government's proposal to change the key. The Left and Christian People's Party supports the government's escalation for 2013, the Right wants a slightly faster escalation, while the Advance Party believes that everything should be phased in in one year. But the inauguration of the Advance Party has a backside, because it's cultural life that's going to pay for the party's sport lift, by cutting $1.5 billion. kr in the cultural budget in 2013. Nor should one forget that it is the same party that will abolish the gambling monopoly of Norwegian Typing. Where does the income of Norwegian sport come from? What we can certainly say is that a good part of this money will disappear out of the country to international gaming companies registered in Cayman Islands, and not to new sports halls neither in Tromsø, in Oslo, or in Alta. Norwegian sport knows that with a red-green government, you can be sure that the gaming monopoly will be maintained, and that by 2015 you will have more to build sports facilities. With a dark blue, right-hand majority, this question hovers completely in the blue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2048	I am pleased that sport receives a lot of verbal support – at least outside this hall, but to the extent in this room as well – but when it comes to financial support, it becomes more puzzled. Now we're dealing with a case of changing the distribution of the key by a few percent, and you're about to step up to reach the goal of 64 pst. I really don't understand why you're going to spend so long, all that time lag is pretty significant in terms of tipping drugs – over 2 billion. kr. What we have heard, both through the hearing on sports and the contact we have with sports, is that there are screaming shortages and needs. It is depressing for sports laws to experience this, but also for those municipalities that are waiting for funds to start construction. Now it's the sport's turn. The share of sport in the key is going to increase sharply, and we need sport more than ever, said the previous Minister of Culture when the sports message was presented. You promised a powerful escalation – that has not happened. There are many ways to fund sport, but we think that changing the key and doing it in the next year is the right way to do it. It is quite right, as the chairman of the committee says, that the Progress Party also wants to increase revenue by allowing foreign gambling companies to establish themselves in Norway. That doesn't mean you send the money out of the country. No, you actually leave the money in the country. A licensing system is introduced which allocates parts of the turnover back to sport, using the same model that Norsk Tipping has. This would have provided significant funds for Norwegian sport, but it does not want to do the red-green and some of the other parties. You can stand by and boast that you give sport good support, but the truth is that you really score with your own policy. But sport is quite obedient, sport is loyal to the political parties and does not exert any pressure in the public space. What's quite interesting is that when you talk to them in a little other forum, they're pretty dissatisfied with the vocal treatment they get from the politicians. It is pointed out that the Labour Party first proposed a change to the key at its 2011 national meeting. That's wrong. The party of progress has proposed it much, much earlier and also several times. I record that when the Labour Party proposes something at a national meeting in 2011, five to six years must be used before it can be implemented. It doesn't exactly testify about the power of action – rather the true opposite. I am pleased that we have subsequently received a sports report for treatment in Stortinget. We have put forward a number of proposals in this Chamber to be presented with a sports message and have been voted on each time, but after that the government managed to crawl forward with a message and promoted it to the Stortinget. We are pleased because then we will have to deal with the whole of the sport policy in Norway. The whole thing is very simple: there's no funding for sport, and that's the big challenge we're all facing. We have some solutions – we are criticized for having some solutions, okay enough – but I record that the other parties are unable to come up with similar solutions. You say that you change the percentage and that it will mean more money for sports. Then you don't have any idea of economic policy, to say it carefully, because what you're totally dependent on, is that there are actually some people who put money into that pot -- in other words, that there's a part of the Norwegian Tipping game. If that activity goes down, it doesn't help change the percentage, because there's only less money to distribute. It doesn't want either committee chairman Gunn Karin Gjul or the red-greens to take over. They really just want to stick their heads even further into the sand, and it's as you know not a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2063	The President then asks whether the representative should put his head out of the sand and make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2066	Yes, on behalf of Norwegian sport, I am promoting the proposal we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2071	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2074	The representative Gjul said in his post that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the change of the key is not fast enough. For some reason, the representative Gjul did not get what the sport itself said. President Børre Rognlien is ready for his speech. I almost have to refer to the representative Gjul what the sports president says: «It's urgent. We just have the time and the way. If the key is not changed with effect from 1 January 2013, it is dramatic. This will in reality mean a real decline in the transfer to Norwegian sport. Not everyone is aware of this." That is why the Right wants to change the key, and that is why the Right in its Alternative State Budget for 2013 proposes that the funds for sport be increased by a total of 200 million. kr. It is because the sport fears a real decline in 2013 that the Right proposes that change. The government's draft budget for sport is not related to the expectations created by the Workers' Party in particular in the submission of the sports communication. The working party went very high on the track. They promised to escalate the key. It is very surprising for everyone in the sport that the Workers' Party does not follow the expectations they have created and that they have given the sport. This will have negative consequences for sport next year. It does not help that the representative Gunn Karin Gjul tells us about everything that has been done in the past – if you are not actually able to fulfill the promises that have been made to the sport. Norwegian sport is constantly growing, but the Right understands that we cannot expect a growing sport movement to offer particularly good quality children and youth without better funding. What is now proposed by the Right – especially by the Workers' Party – will increase the number of newly built sports facilities and activity in sports facilities throughout the country. When the Right goes out and tells what's in our sporting career, the Workers' Party's people come on the field and tell everybody, we own sports policy. It is the Labour Party that makes the best proposals. It's the Workers' Party that's the sports party. I thought it was quite special that when the Right made a proposal that would improve the conditions of sport, the new sports minister went out with his first play and was negative to tippers that would benefit the sport. I thought that the parties at Stortinget would be happy to be in a good time to lift children's and youth's rights. That is why it was disappointing when the Workers' Party failed to fulfil its own promises, that they would not be pleased that others are offensive in sports policy. Norway needs more sport, not less. That's why it's also necessary to have a government shift for the harvest, with lots that actually deliver their promises. We need more handball halls. We need more swimming pools. We need more jumpers. We need all children and young people to have the opportunity to play, learn and experience challenges and mastering through sport. It is disappointing that there are beautiful promises in the sports report, but when it comes to reality, the money does not follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2094	Sport is a people's island in Norway. Almost everyone is at some point in the organised sport. We practice more than ever before in different contexts. We experience that large parts of the population are joint owners when we have large sporting events. The Norwegian sport model is about participation, volunteering and inclusion. The government announced in our report. St. 26 for 2011–2012 The Norwegian sports model. Plant bets and arrangements for all who wish to participate in physical activity are important objectives of the notification. There is a great need to build more sports facilities in this country to allow more people to engage in sports and to improve teams’ capacity for their activities. But there is a huge gap between the need for sports facilities and the available games. This is particularly true in press areas, populous areas and large cities. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the sports area by changing the key. It is positive that a clear majority in this Chamber support the government's proposal for changes to the Money Gambling Act which regulates the distribution of profits from Norsk Tipping. The centre party has long struggled to increase transfers from resources to culture and volunteering, without such an increase leading to a reduction of other State aid for these purposes. We in the Central Party are therefore very pleased that the government is now making proposals for a new key, which will give sport a significant economic boost. The government proposes a new key where the game profit is distributed by 64 pst. for sport, 18 pst. for cultural purposes and 18 pst. to humanitarian and social organisations. The amendment will be implemented gradually following decisions in each financial year and the conversion will be completed in 2015. We hear here that someone is more busy. The government will increase the investment in the construction and rehabilitation of sports facilities as a result of changes in population and housing patterns. The government will give priority to sports facilities with high potential for use, good opportunities for multi-use, high coverage and diversity. Intermunicipal sports facilities will receive increased support and major cities and press areas will be given increased priority. The construction effort is the most important measure to stimulate activity in the population. Children and young people are the main target group for sport policy, and we will focus in particular on developing the range of activities available to young people. We also need to maintain a comprehensive and good range of activities for young people, and to strengthen the commitment to sport for people with disabilities, both in the field of high- and high-quality sports. In addition, an important new target group is inactive, through the prevention of lifestyle diseases. The contribution to the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee is maintained at a high level in order to ensure good conditions for sport and a comprehensive range of activities. We also want to strengthen the bet on local layers and associations by up to 12.5 pst. of the profits from Norsk Tipping for sport purposes are used for the grant scheme. The government will prioritise the provision of sport to young people both in the form of low-threshold and non-competitive activities and through the organisation of a development-oriented youth sport. We will also strengthen the grant of child sport in order to maintain a comprehensive and qualitatively good activity offer for this target group. The proposed conversion of the key will strengthen both sport and culture. In addition, when one takes into account that the government in this year’s budget proposes a sharp increase in the VAT compensation, there is no doubt that the red-green government has given voluntary Norway a strong boost. This benefits the entire nation's population, and we in the Center Party are proud to have contributed to such a boost for culture, sport and volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2113	It is gratifying that a clear majority in the Committee supports the Government's proposal on changes in the monetary laws. With this, there is broad political consensus about strengthening sport and voluntary cultural life by giving them a greater share of Norwegian Tipping's surplus. The proposed change in typing key will result in a monthly economic boost. In 2015, sport will receive nearly 600 million. kr more than he gets in 2012, given that Norsk Tipping's surplus remains unchanged. Based on Norwegian Typing's last surplus forecast of 3,300 million. kr causes the government’s proposal to change the key to increase the payment for sport by 22 million already next year. kr. It happens despite the fact that Norwegian Typing's total surplus to pay next year is expected to be reduced. The type key conversion is to be completed in 2015. In the State budget for 2014, the government will take a final position on the phase-in rapidity. The purpose of the government is to facilitate the widest possible use of sports and physical activity. Sport is an important part of the life of very many Northmen. Participation in sports and physical activity is a source of joy, excesses and chiseling. Sport is about cohesion, good growth conditions and public health. I am also busy that the sport contributes to inclusion and community. Not least, sport gives us a positive picture. Facilities are crucial to enable sports to operate and provide children and young people with important social meeting places in the local environment. Available sports facilities allow sports and physical activity without a long journey. The new key will make it possible to intensify efforts for a good range of activities for people with disabilities and those with low physical activity at present. The proposed changes shall provide the economic basis for a strong commitment in this area. I would like to stress that these changes also mean a lift for cultural purposes outside the state budget. Both Freefonds, cultural buildings, the cultural school and the cultural spaserstock will experience a powerful lift. In 2015, these measures will amount to more than 175 million. kr more than in 2012, given that Norsk Typing's surplus remains unchanged. If the 2013 Norwegian Typing surplus forecast is correct, the proposed changes will result in a payment of approx. One and a half billion. SEK and 482 million. kr for sporting and cultural events outside the State budget. Compared with the distribution after the current key, this is almost 80 million. kr more for both purposes. The changes in the key will have full effect in 2015 – to the joy of culture, sport and volunteering. In this context, I think it is useful that we, when we look forward, also take a look back. What we see is that the representative Olemic Thommessen from the Right, when he first heard about the proposal of the National Assembly of the Labour Party for a change in the key, among other things. the following was stated to the NRK on 7 April 2011 at 10 a.m. 13.30: ‘I think it would be better to have an approach to this where we could see how we could find more money and create better conditions for sport, without starting with the key.’ There were several representatives who said they were afraid that cultural life would get less. Therefore, I am happy now to note that it turned out not to be the case. There's more to cultural life. The sport gets more. What gets less from the key is the government budget, but it does nothing, because we have seen clear goals to also raise the efforts of the government budget in the field of culture. So I expect the representative of Hofstad Helleland to not add to my point of view as she would like me to have. It was clear in the interview that the representative pointed out that I wanted her and Right to welcome her to the key. The representative of Hofstad Helleland must resist the lack of effort that Right has had over several years in the field of sport. When she doesn't tolerate it and it hurts, it must be because it's a sore point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2140	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2144	There will be many occasions to come back to this with sport, but I noticed the state council's posts and the prediction that the revenues of Norsk Typing are going to decrease in 2013. At the same time, investment costs in respect of installations shall increase. With the changes that have been made from the 2012 level, there will probably be tens of millions of dollars for sport. I want to ask questions with a background in that the lag for Norwegian sport is significant, over 2 billion. kr. Will it increase in 2013, or will it be reduced? How much has increased in the last seven years — during this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2151	It is precisely because many sports organisations across the country have a great need for facilities, that the changes in the key were proposed by the Labour Party, and also well anchored in the big sports message, which I look forward to discussing at a later stage. The changes we've made almost 80 million. kr more for both sport and cultural purposes outside the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2158	According to the sport, if the key is not changed with effect from 1 January 2013, it becomes dramatic, because it will mean a real decrease in transfers to Norwegian sport. Does the Minister of Culture agree with that? Is the Minister of Culture concerned that this will lead to fewer facilities and less activity in sport next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2163	I'm concerned about the plant situation. I take the signal from Sport-Noreg very seriously. We have promised that the changes in the key will be in target by 2015. They should be. Then, from the state budget to the state budget, we need to assess how much we can do from time to time, but we're going to be in target by 2015. This is what we got right now. These changes think we're right and necessary. This was also the reason why we took the initiative in 2011 at the National Labour Party National Meeting to change the key.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2170	Then my question to the Minister of Culture is whether she will confirm that there is a real decline in the transfers to sport in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2175	The changes we are proposing for 2013, amount to almost 80 million. kr more for sport. In the meantime, we will reach the target for the changes in the key by 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2180	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2185	The sport only receives verbal support from the red-green – claims the representative Korsberg – and it receives no support in crowns and ears. That is a statement I will totally reject from this pulpit. That there is a screaming lack of sports facilities, I can agree, and that is because there is so much activity out in sports Norway. An increase in the proportion of the key is our answer to change this situation. I have no faith that the license from foreign tipping companies will give us a large increase. It's just to look at these companies and not least where they're established. To put it this way, most of them are in tax havens. Just the fact that they're established in tax havens tells me that they're not willing to take on the social responsibility that we, among other things. sees that Norwegian Tipping does. Rather, they want to secure money on the bottom line of companies where ownership is hidden. The representative of Korsberg further claims that the Progress Party has presented proposals for changing the key. This may be so, for they did so the day after the decision was taken at the national meeting of the Workers' Party. I don't know if I'm going to dry to describe it as a rudeness. I'm not going to do that, but I really want to. The representative of Hofstad Helleland is heard saying that Norwegian sport meets on Judgment Day 1 January 2013. That's not the case. Norwegian sport also gets a boost this year – directly through the increase in the proportion of the key and indirectly through VAT compensation and other schemes that we have. The right and government agree that we are on target by 2015. That means that sports Norway can count on us. 600 healthy millions will be in the sports account in 2015. But the big challenge will be whether the Right any government company from the Progress Party will be able to get through to release the game market. I think that will challenge this goal of the dark blue layer. I will end by sending a greeting to Sports-Norway that an increase in the key will give ringing coins in a lot of a boxer's money box, and that Sports-Norway can rely on the layer that is dressed in red and green themes, and that the dark blues will be turned this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2200	The representative of Hofstad Helleland spent almost all his time commenting on what I said in my previous post, and talking about the Workers' Party and not about the Right. I have to say that the whole post to Hofstad Helleland appeared a bit cramped, that they are simply a little offended because they cannot take credit for being the big sports party in Norway, that they must actually share that honor with quite a few others in this Chamber. Then I have to say that I think it is a little strange that the representative of Hofstad Helleland has not found out that what we are actually adopting here in Stortinget tonight is a change in the key, which is phased in from 1 January 2013, which gives more money for Norwegian sport. What the state council said in its statement was just that the last profit forecasts from Norwegian Typing are positive, so sports president Børre Rognlien's concerns are fortunately no longer a reality. In fact, there will be more money for Norwegian sports next year, including. Because we're now changing the key. Then it is that the Workers' Party fulfills its promises. We have submitted a sports message that has not yet been dealt with in this room. Then it is quite impressive to a government that it presnips the sports message and starts the phase-in of the games before the message is processed. No one expects a cashe out a single penny before the sports message is processed. In addition, when I said in my post that we have implemented a VAT compensation scheme, that we have introduced other positive Norwegian sports and voluntary schemes, it was an example of the government and the Workers' Party being able to trust. What we promised Norwegian sport and volunteering in the past, we've actually followed up, and it's followed up heads for heads. Rather, what becomes a question is: How will there be a dark blue government with the Right and the Advance Party? What would be interesting to hear is: can the representative of Hofstad Helleland guarantee that the monopoly of games will not be lifted, so that it will take money out of the country? Can the representative of Hofstad Helleland guarantee that it will not be cut for cultural purposes in order to give money to Norwegian sport? Can the representative of Hofstad Helleland at all promise a phase-in of the games by 2015 in collaboration with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2213	This is probably an ‘el clasico’ when we deal with gambling policy. I believe, as I know both the representatives Gjul and Simensen as reasonably up-to-date people, that they understand how we will allow foreign gaming companies to establish themselves in Norway. It's not clear. It is about establishing itself in Norway, establishing a licensing system. That means you have to be in Norway. The money that is being spent on these companies remains in Norway, and a certain part of the turnover is going back to Norwegian sport, in the same way as Norsk Typing. I think they understand that, but for lack of good arguments against it, they come with nothing but that money disappears out of the country, to tax havens. That's exactly what it's doing today, and we're going to change that arrangement. We want these means, these 5, 6, 7, 8 billion. kr which is played in a foreign gaming company shall remain in Norway and that part of its turnover shall be due to Norwegian sport. There will be more money for Norwegian sports. I think they understand this, but because of the lack of good reasoning, they come with nothing but referring to today's system. I fully agree with that, it is hopeless that money disappears. But it does not strengthen Norwegian Typing. Norwegian Tipping has monopoly in Norway, but not in Europe and the world. That's what's the big challenge. If it had been changed, and if these companies had been established in Norway, they would have had good conditions. Then I am so pleased with what the Minister of Culture says about the future economy that you will get about. Eight million. kr more. You'll do that if you take the 2012 numbers into account, but no one can tell me what the 2013 numbers are. The way the prognosis looks, you play for less and less at Norwegian Typing. There will be less and less money for both Norwegian sport and culture. In other words, it'll be even less to distribute. It doesn't really help you adjust by 2 pst. up. There'll be less money in the box for the sports teams. And it's the sports teams that are the big losers here, it's no winner. I would like to say to the representative Simensen: he thought it was a good thing that we made a proposal based on the decision made at the National Labour Party meeting. I would like to encourage the Labour Party to be rude to us and to promote many of our proposals again and to take it back to the Party's policy! They do it sometimes in this hall, and we think it's nice. Keep it going – we have many good suggestions! We're going to produce very many good suggestions. When the Labour Party has good proposals, we also promote them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2224	I got many challenges from the representative, Gjul, to whom I am happy to respond. I can answer on behalf of the Right what we want to accomplish when we come to government from the next harvest. What we then want to do when it comes to sports policy is precisely what we agree with the Workers' Party, to change the key and to give more money to sport. What distinguishes the Right Party and the Labour Party here in the Chamber today is not that we disagree with this very decision, what separates the Right Party and the Labour Party, is that the Right Party follows up the raise with money, precisely because we promoted an increase in the state budget for 2013. When the Labour Party and the representative Gjul accuse me of not talking about the Right Party's policy, but about the Labour Party's policy, it's not that right. What I did in my post was refer to what the sports themselves say, what the Sports Association says. They're worried just because the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens now add up for the sport next year, will lead to a real decline. This will lead to fewer activities in sports laws and a worsening situation for installations. Government parties must be able to hear that, and the Workers' Party must bear to hear that it is sport itself that says it. The right they took the signals seriously, and therefore we also followed up with funds. But we are happy – I have to stress that – for us to go in the right direction. That is why we also support the Labour Party in the change you are making today, so that there is more money. But this is far from what the Workers' Party itself created from expectations in sport. That's why sport is also disappointed. Norway needs more sport, not less. It's going to facilitate the right. We want a diversity in Sports Norway. We want it from a public health perspective. We want to facilitate child and youth sport and adult education, but then we need facilities, and we cannot expect from Stortinget that sport will deliver a good deal to everyone. Then we also have to give them sufficient funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2236	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 10 and 11 will be treated under one – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2264	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2273	Since there is today a distribution of the peace prize to the EU, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the whole of Europe, including Norway, on the prize. One thing we are dealing with today is a good example of how our accession to the EU is done through the EEA Agreement. As far as I am aware, more than 2,500 directives have been implemented from our signature of the EEA Agreement until today. Technological development has only been enormous in my lifetime – from a time when radio was our only window towards the world, to today, when we can sit anywhere in the world and start recording television programs that we will later see when it would please us. It is the combination of watching television programmes here and now and the use of new technologies to watch the same television programmes in retrospect that form the basis for this proposition, Prop. 9 L. As we know, the four freedoms are central to the EEA as well. They are also central to our consideration of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive – or the AMT Directive, which has been used as a concept in this matter. The scope of the AMT Directive is also described in Prop. 10 S. The AMT Directive facilitates the free flow of television signals between countries within the EEA territory. Technological developments on the television side have led both traditional television and on-demand services to compete for the same audience. The Directive shall help to avoid distortions of competition. Why is it necessary to liberalise the television sector? An important reason is that technological developments have given consumers more choice. One of the choices of taking up programmes is that you can flush past advertising, which in turn can have consequences on the bottom line – to use that concept – to broadcasters in the production of advertising and sponsor-funded television programmes. As a consequence, and in a combination of several themes, amendments are proposed to the Broadcasting Act, the copyright law and the Film and Video Grammar Act when the AMT Directive is introduced into Norwegian law. I have learned that this has been the case with the involvement around the EU directives, but the introduction of the AMT Directive has created commitment, and one theme that many have feared is that the liberalisation of our television everyday life would challenge our total ban on alcohol advertising. In this respect, it may be useful to know that the AMT Directive is continuing the so-called broadcasting country principle of the Television Directive. This in turn means that some EEA countries, such as the United Kingdom, Norway, cannot initially prevent the retransmission of television or audiovisual ordering services by providers established in another EEA country, e.g. Great Britain. It may sound very blatant, but the Directive provides for derogations under certain conditions. Since the AMT Directive is also a minimum Directive, each Member State may lay down stricter or more detailed rules than its provisions. The ban on alcohol advertising is a typical example here. For this reason, the government is clear that the Norwegian total ban is still in place even after the introduction of the AMT Directive, as the majority of the committee – with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party – is behind it. The reason for such an attitude is known to all of us. The EFTA Court has also stated that it has no reason to doubt that there are serious social and health reasons underlying the Norwegian alcohol policy in general and the prohibition of alcohol advertising in particular, a statement by the majority of the Committee. There are many issues I could have touched on in my article on this matter, both in terms of sponsorship, and in terms of advertising for the protection of children, but I don't have time for that, because I want to touch on a matter that has dealt with me a little in connection with the file. It is that this proposition also proposes a legislative change that will be an important milestone in the universal design of the offer of the hundreds of thousands of people who in their everyday lives depend on the subtitles of television programmes. In the past, only the NRK had textual obligations in its statutes. Now, the rights of deaf and hearing-impaired persons shall be governed by a law on subtitles covering both NRK and commercial television channels with a greater audience share than 5 pst. and shall apply to programmes sent in what we call 'prime hour' between 5 pst. 18 a.m. and a.m. 23 – if ‘technical and practical’, as is also stated. For my part, I would encourage all broadcasters to spend time and resources to contribute to a technology development that reduces the cost of subtitling television programmes. It will provide an expanded TV offer and a better TV everyday for a large group of people. My Christmas greeting to the companies is: see the opportunities and not the constraints, so that this large group can gradually participate in TV programmes of great national interest, for example. sporting events, and perhaps even be able to attend debates in this Chamber on their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2305	When the President-in-Office congratulated the European Union on the peace prize, I think it will be on his behalf. I do not think it is a unanimous committee that supports that congratulations – in any case, I have no need to congratulate the European Union on the peace prize. But let's move on to the matter. I think the case rapporteur had a good point to make. There is no doubt that with the changes that are so rapid within the media world, it is difficult to create a relevant law that will hang all the way. The AMT Directive is also a minimum directive, as also mentioned by the rapporteur. But then it is that we are often a little bit more forward-looking than the government and government parties on the Stortinget. We are also in this matter. This can be seen, inter alia, in: of the proposals contained in the vote. I'll briefly say a little bit about these suggestions. I think everyone, as the rapporteur pointed out, agrees that offering subtitles to hearing impaired people is important, but at the same time one must be aware that this is a technological challenge. It is also an economic challenge for broadcasters. We can see that, among other things. in the legislative proposal, where NRK district broadcasts are to be protected against this, simply because it is difficult to obtain lyrics. There is also a large amount of financial expenditure involved. It is also for the commercial broadcasters. I would like to ask the Council of State to bear in mind that these companies are not charged large costs in this way, but rather to see if it is possible to find support schemes to develop a good technology that takes care of that very thing. It is also in this context that we are promoting the proposal that we have put forward in the vote. We have also promoted a number of other proposals, such as: goes on different things for which it should be allowed to advertise. I noticed that one took approx. two-and-a-half minutes before the case-rapporteur – after having honoured the EU – was concerned that we should comply with EU legislation. So that European Union jubilee lasted for two and a half minutes. The Progress Party and the Right promote proposals to allow political advertising on television. It is certainly not a win for the Progress Party, because we do not really have the economy for that. For the Workers' Party, which is being injected by tens of millions from the trade union, it would probably have been a cause of joy. But we believe that the principle must be that when you are allowed to advertise in newspapers, magazines and other places for a political message, you must also be allowed to advertise on television. We can't believe that there's going to be such a big difference between one and the other media products, especially as the media is changing, that there's going to be more and more similar editorials, and that the same editorials have different platforms to stand on. The same applies to television advertising for medicinal products authorised for sale in stores. It's actually going to be the exact same argument. You can read about these products in newspapers and magazines, but you can't see them in advertising on TV. That's what you do in other countries, and I think it's been pretty straightforward. Then we want to make a proposal to allow tobacco and alcohol advertising. Now it's like today that you can have big editorial reviews, your own programmes, that go to the production of wine, spirits, beer, etc. You have it on radio, on TV and you have it in newspapers and magazines. Why shouldn't you have the opportunity to have it as an advertisement on TV, when you have it as an editorial case on TV? It's quite incomprehensible to us. You can then put some restrictions on when this may be sent, in the form that you may add time to the transmission in the evening. So we think that would have been quite possible. Finally, I just want to say that we are voting against giving the NRK the right to information from the customer registers to TV distributors. I refer to our remarks, and I also refer to those hearing bodies that are very sceptical about this. Then I'll take up the suggestions that we're with the Right in the vote, and the proposal that we're alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2328	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2331	The rapporteur has explained the content of the directive, and I do not want to say much more about it. We are in favour of the directive without more than stating that these are the necessary regulatory changes to meet the technological convergence that is taking place. So it's with technological convergence that it doesn't just apply to technology, but it also applies to the content, that is, as technology flows together, the boundaries between the different types of content produced will also change. Many of the suggestions we have, or that we've come up with, are actually mirror images of them in a slightly different way. If you look at the proposal on political television advertising and the proposal on advertising and product placement for medicinal products authorised for sale in stores, the two proposals are just examples of this. It's hard to manage when you talk about TV, and when you talk about other media. When does the VG network actually become a television broadcast? Living images are vivid images whether they come in one or the other context, and the difference between these surfaces seems to be very artificial when it comes to these two proposals, especially for television advertising for sale in the store. In the case of political television advertising, there is one thing that is more than mature for change. There is the fact that we have a confession from the Human Rights Court against us that this is contrary to freedom of expression. That's, I think, a embarrassing thing. That ban should have been lifted after we now see that the instruments put in place last – namely that the Free Canal should meet this need – are actually being powdered, and that the government itself is reaching, and we would like to support it, cutting support for the Free Channel. Another point where we have a different position from the government is the handing over of birth dates to the NRK. There we are very sceptical, mainly because this is contrary to a fundamental principle in the legislation surrounding this, which the Data Protection Authority correctly specifies, namely that when collecting this type of information for a register, it should not be passed on to other uses. That's what it's added up to here. The Data Protection Authority has expressed itself very sceptical and has opposed this. What makes this further problematic is also that suppliers point out from their own point of view that the quality of their own registers is similar. They have no need to monitor this so carefully, other than to keep the subscriptions in order, while the NRK is obviously going to use it to find out who has a TV and who does not pay a licence, requires a different type of notoriety over the figures to provide the best possible legal certainty in this context. The next point I want to comment on is what is proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, namely: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider the question of fixing payments in the event of an obligation to provide services...’. We have a case that is going on in these days, about that very question. I would argue that this is a topic that you should go a little deeper into in order to see how the mechanisms now work when it comes to fixing payments. It's a piece of legislation that's in and out of it. However, the question is whether, in the light of the legal case that is now under way – when it is dismissed – it would not be wise to look at whether you have any clearer guidelines on how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2349	Now, when we are to incorporate the AMT Directive into the EEA Agreement and, in the light of this, make changes to the broadcasting law, the copyright law and the film and videogram law, it is to a large extent to follow up on developments. We are getting more and more television-like services online, and then we see the value of making changes that can lead to the harmonisation of legislation on traditional television and audiovisual services. Like the previous speakers, I refer to the rapporteur's comments on the content of the cases, and I come here with only a few individual details that SV is concerned with. SV is very satisfied with the strict legislation we have regarding marketing and advertising in Norway. It is essential for us to make sure that the ban on alcohol advertising is maintained through the changes in the law – also in targeted broadcasts from abroad. Research shows that those who are exposed to alcohol advertising not only drink more but also debut with alcohol consumption at an earlier age. The Committee's observations on the matter state that the majority refers to the fact that the general ban on alcohol in Norway is based on sound health policy. Now there is no ban on alcohol in general in the country, but in general we have bans on alcohol advertising. And it rests on a sound health policy basis. The Progress Party wishes to lift the ban on tobacco advertising. Now we see around Europe that there are still several countries that are imposing bans on tobacco advertising, so the proposal is really bleak, contrary to what is happening in very many other countries. We have a national objective of reducing tobacco use considerably, and it is likely that it will not be useful if we introduce an opportunity to have tobacco advertising in the country. There is also political disagreement about other bans on advertising, such as disrespectful medicines and political advertising. For the former, there are also health policy arguments for maintaining the ban. Greater consumption of medicinal products is not desirable. With regard to the prohibition of political advertising, the Right and the Progressive Party claim that there is an intervention in freedom of expression. But the argument for introducing and continuing this is to ensure more equivalent conditions for opinions. We all know that it is relatively expensive to buy advertising space, and then, of course, it is the largest and richest batches that will be able to make the most of advertising opportunities. TV advertising is a strong tool, and SV seems to be quite fine to continue the ban on political advertising. One last point to which I would like to make a few comments is the Ministry's bill that captioning on television is carried out in the Broadcasting Act. As we have heard, subtitles are now to be introduced for all national television broadcasts from the NRC between 1 p.m. 18 a.m. and a.m. 23 every day, direct transmissions included. Outside this period, all consignments, other than direct consignments, shall be texted. There are stricter requirements than for the other channels, where they are the television channels with more than 5 pst. the public part of the texting of all television broadcasts between 1 p.m. 18 a.m. and a.m. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox It should be noted that it is only technically possible that the direct programmes need to be spelled out. Although it would have been desirable that absolutely all the programs had been texted, we understand that this must be taken step by step, and are pleased that the first step towards a universal design of the TV offer is now being taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2370	The TV market is changing. It was a big change for us who felt that we got more channels than just NRK, and it's actually not that many years ago. After that, there were an incredible number of channels to choose from. Now it's no longer about choosing between channels, but about when we're going to see different programs. The new is audiovisual ordering services that we have heard more talk about here now. Today we don't need a TV, because on both mobile phones and tablets we get different offers. There is clearly a need for legislation to regulate this – even across borders. The rapporteur and others have talked a lot about this now. Such legislation has worked until today, it has been distorting competition in the face of traditional television, and we need to change that. The AMT Directive now to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement is based on the four freedoms. But we see that this directive actually means regulating the TV offers that are now being channelled through new providers. Now, when we are going to introduce this AMT Directive, it is important for Norway that there is a minimum set of legislation. As a result, we still have the possibility of having stricter or more detailed rules than the directive provides. What is important with legislation is that provisions relating to traditional television should also apply to the new types of services. These include: important to maintain the ban on advertising aimed at young people and to be restrictive in terms of product placement. In the case of the centre party, it is important that the prohibition of alcohol advertising by the alcohol law can be maintained and that any infringements are sanctioned. The Party wishes to remove the ban on television advertising for alcohol and tobacco. It's not surprising in itself, but it's hard to understand that this is a party that the Christian People's Party wants to work closely with in the future. The Broadcasting Act also deals with some changes that are not related to the AMT Directive. The Progress Party states in its note that the prohibition of political advertising is a violation of freedom of expression, and both the Right and the Advance Party believe that such advertising should be opened up. Indeed, there are many countries in Europe which prohibit political advertising. In fact, it is also the case that the Right's sister parties in several countries defend such a ban. I would therefore encourage the Right to take a talk with them on this topic. The Right Party and the Progressive Party also wish to promote non-prescription medicinal products. Both doctors and pharmacists warn that excessive use of very common medicines may be harmful to individuals. In fact, something as innocent as a nasal spray can create addiction and become a problem for many. Other non-prescription medicinal products may have far more serious consequences. The centre party does not wish to promote non-prescription medicinal products, alcohol or tobacco, nor does it want to promote political advertising. We are very happy that it is a vision we share with both the Working Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2387	Then I thank the previous speaker for the care of the Christian People's Party and well in any future non-socialist government. Care is appreciated during Christmas. But it is in the right place to remember that we have not received any invitation from the Center Party to participate in any alternative government cooperation. So I don't know how far care actually goes, when the nets get long. There are many aspects involved in the directive. The rapporteur has made a good contribution and has had a good review of many of those questions. Initially, I would like to point out in particular that it is positive that we now have strengthened the regulatory framework for subtitling television broadcasts, and I agree with the rapporteur's considerations that the television companies must seize the possibilities here. In my article I will focus in particular on the relationship to alcohol advertising in the two matters we have to treat. Studies suggest that every year in Europe, as many people die from alcohol damage as the entire population of Oslo — 600 000 people. In Norway, it is far less relative to the population than in many other countries. However, on average, more than one person dies every day from alcohol-related harm in Norway. Now Storting has the drug message for treatment. It is about reducing the costs of alcohol-related harm, but to an even greater extent reducing suffering, insecurity and not least children and the suffering of young people as a result of adult drinking. The ban on alcohol advertising is an important basis of policy in this area, and the drug notification addresses the objectives of both reducing drug availability and reducing drug demand. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has been and is committed to ensuring that the ban on alcohol advertising in targeted consignments against the Norwegian market will continue. We've got that insurance. I refer to the Foreign Minister's statements in an inter-pelling debate in this Chamber on 14 February of this year, where he says the following: ‘The ban on advertising is an important instrument in the government’s efforts to prevent harmful consumption of alcohol. The government's attitude is that this principle view applies to all types of alcohol advertising. Therefore, when incorporating the Directive into the EEA Agreement, we take the view that the ban on alcohol advertising in targeted consignments from abroad can also be maintained.» In addition, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘After an overall assessment, the government proposes that Norway go in to include the Audiovisual Media Services Directive in the EEA Agreement. The government assumes that Norway may continue the ban on alcohol advertising in corrected consignments even if the written exemption falls away. As we see it, this will not conflict with the content of the directive. The Directive allows for stricter national rules to be applied also to consignments from other countries if the consignments are essentially addressed to Norway.’ The Government has given an assurance and on that basis the Christian People's Party may give its support to the EEA Committee's decision to include the Directive in the EEA Agreement and the resulting legislative changes. In this respect, I would also like to remind you that the continuation of the alcohol policy regime was a prerequisite for the Christian People's Party to support the EEA Agreement and ensure a constitutional majority for Norway to become part of the EEA Agreement and to accede to it. As I said, the voices of the Christian People's Party were then decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2412	I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposal that the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, known as the AMT Directive, be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. I am also pleased that a broad majority in the Committee supports the government's proposal on how the directive should be implemented in Norwegian law. This is done by changes in the broadcasting law, the copyright law and the film and videogram law. There are major changes in the TV market. While we had to align ourselves with the TV channels, we can now see the programs if we want to. By way of amendment, the Broadcasting Act will also apply to On Demand services or to what has been called audiovisual ordering services in the bill. The restriction of the law will be somewhat more extensive than before, since the law only covers broadcasts. At the same time, the EU has put a lot of work into demarcating the Directive and all EEA countries have made corresponding demarcations in their legislation. So it's not like we're reinventing the powder, nor is it like it was written in some notes, that everything is floating, and that there is an area that is impossible to regulate. The legislative changes do not involve large-scale regulation of audiovisual content on the Internet. This extension only includes services that provide standard TV programs that you can configure when you want to watch. From today's point of view, the extension will mainly cover services such as NRK Net TV, TV 2 Sumo, VGTV and services offering electronic film rentals, either on the Internet or through the cable TV boxes. Until now, such services have been closest to our unregulated ones, while television has been subject to quite extensive regulation. Therefore, legislative changes are an important step in harmonising legislation and contributing to a level playing field. Harmonisation takes place on the one hand by the need for audiovisual ordering services to comply with certain common basic rules and certain special rules, and on the other by the liberalisation of television legislation. Audiovisual ordering services are required by law to comply with their legislation on product placement, sponsorship, identification and requirements for European programme material. Furthermore, the amendment of the law extends the ban on advertising aimed at children to audiovisual ordering services. Here, the Norwegian legislation will go beyond the Directive and provide for the strengthening of the child’s protection against commercial expressions. The amendment of the law is an important milestone and an important step towards the objective of universal design of audiovisual media. Previously, only the NRK had textual obligations in its statutes. Now the rights of the deaf and hearing impaired are to be legalised by a legislative decision covering both NRK and commercial television channels which have a greater audience share than 5 pst. Noreg goes further than the directive imposes on us in this field. The need for the liberalisation of the television sector is not only due to the emergence of new services. It also comes from competition from abroad, especially from the American entertainment industry. The legislative proposal opens up product placements for commercial television channels in certain programme categories according to closer rules. Product placement has already been a reality in Norwegian television in the form of purchased programmes and has long been useful in Norwegian and foreign cinema films. By allowing product placement, Norwegian commercial television channels could also finance programmes in this way. It will improve the funding possibilities for Norwegian produced content and contribute to several Norwegian television films and Norwegian TV series on Norwegian television. At NRK it is not relevant to open for product placement. The proposed legislative changes will facilitate a level playing field between traditional television and television-like services on the network. It is a step towards harmonising the regulatory framework for television and audiovisual ordering services. Nevertheless, audiovisual ordering services are still at an early stage, and it is still such that broadcasting is the leading and most effective medium to reach a large audience. Therefore, only a selection of the rules in the Broadcasting Act will be extended to include the new services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2431	As I was in my post, we are going to vote against what goes on at the NRK's right to information from the TV distributors' customer registers. If you look at the setting, the minority, consisting of the Advance Party and the Right, has concerns about that amendment of the law. We also refer to what, among other things. The Data Protection Authority, Telenor and some others have stated that this could be contrary to fundamental data protection considerations and also to the Data Protection Act. Then is my question to the Council of State: Are the opinions of Telenor, the Data Protection Agency and some other relevant, or are they taken from the loose air, and are the proposals put forward by the government completely unproblematic in relation to the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2438	There is already a licence in the Broadcasting Act that gives NRK the right of access to its name and addresses. The instructions make it clear that the information can only be used for licensing purposes and that access should be restricted to those who work with it. The change does not imply that the NRK will have access to the date of birth and thus not to the number of the person. It is also clear from the Personal Information Act that he stands back for regulations in another law, and it is therefore not right that this legal rule is contrary to the Personal Information Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2443	I am pleased that you want to relax the rules on product placement. But as far as the NRK is concerned, this raises the question: If the NRK has the same strict regulatory framework for its shipments, will it not limit the possibility of buying Norwegian-produced series that use product placement? There will be difficulties when the largest buyer of these products will not actually be allowed to send them, cf. the case of ‘Lilyhammer’. Could not, for example, have this relationship limited to NRK's own productions? It would simplify that problem. Or how does the Council of State really think this should be handled?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2452	We basically believe that product placement does not comply with the principle that NRK’s general broadcasting offer should be non-commercial. We also assume that the NRK does not therefore have the same need to benefit from this source of funding. The commercial TV channels are a little different.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2457	I have a question about political advertising. As I have understood it, this is a sensible approximation between traditional television and the new form of television that has come. But it's also a little bit harder for example. Internet TV, which was previously able to send political advertising but which will not now be allowed to do so. Will it now be such – if you take the evening post as an example – that the evening post on its front page, where they do not run television, can show films for political parties, but as soon as you press the tab called Evening Post TV, it is forbidden to show films for political parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2462	As I said in my article, there are some areas where traditional television still differs from the audiovisual ordering services. Political television advertising is one of those areas. The traditional TV medium is a strong medium, it reaches out very wide. Audiovisual ordering services do not reach the same extent. We have therefore argued that there is no need to regulate political television advertising in the audiovisual ordering services in the same way as traditional television.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2467	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2472	I deserved the criticism from Korsberg about my congratulations to the European Union. I just want to say that it was a result of being a private-practice politician, and that is something you are probably allowed to be sometimes and not just a politician for the Committee's views. Back to Korsberg’s comment on the principle in this case, on lying flat or not flat for the EU. Now it's like I don't put my skin flat for the EU in everything they do. The Minimum Directive just opens up so that good national policies can also be pursued in areas where there is disagreement with the EU, and in particular in advertising, we conduct a better national policy than the EU opens up. I note that the Progress Party is completely uncritical of the commercial desire to release the advertising market freely and uncritically loosely in the Norwegian TV market. Does this also mean that they want free slips for advertising aimed at children? I interpret the uncritical connection of the representative Korsberg to the free advertising market as a yes to this question. I was therefore very pleased that the government was critical of releasing that advertising market. It must be possible to have different thoughts in your head and, not least, a political stance that takes into account other than the bottom line of private companies. Since I'm standing here, I want to come back to the subtitles for hearing impaired people. Norwegian legislation goes beyond the EU, and I am very pleased about that. But I also record that both economic and technical criteria are used to hold back the development that should, in my view, take place, because the hearing impaired represent a large group that is today excluded from being able to participate in television programmes that are sent, which we consider very natural. They are not allowed to participate because many TV programs are not the text. I think the hearing impaired deserve their TV everyday life to be so much the same as mine, that I will once again encourage TV companies and others who see the opportunity to develop new technologies in this area, to take the challenge of resolving this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2483	The centre party is concerned that we should have a strict and absolute ban on advertising alcohol in Norway. In the negotiations with the EU, it was not possible to continue the derogation we had, which gave us the right to stop alcohol advertising in consignments from abroad. That is why we have been very sceptical about this directive. We believe that Norway should have passed on the exception we had, which was negotiated in the 1990s, and which was an important premise for the EEA agreement to have several figures in Stortinget. I would like to remind you that the right of reservation was negotiated precisely in order to allow health and the environment to take care of free trade. Then we focus on what Jonas Gahr Støre said in an interpellation debate in Stortinget on 14 February last year. He made it clear that the government has taken the view that Norway can continue the ban on alcohol advertising in shipments, even if the written exception has been removed. That's why we're joining this here today. It is on the basis of the assurances that the ban on television advertising can be passed on in its entirety, and that this is also the basis of the government's decision. Then I would like to make some comments on the proposal that one should remove the ban on television advertising for medicinal products authorised for sale in the store. I think this is quite eye-catching, and I want to make it clear that painkillers with paracetamol are not the same as neck tablets. I want to come up with some facts on that occasion. We have had a large increase in the use of paracetamol among children and young people. Use has doubled in the last 20 years. After it was allowed to purchase painkillers without prescription from a pharmacy, the number of poisonings has doubled to more than 1000 per year. This is according to Aftenposten 25 May 2008. In 2003–08, 35 deaths were recorded due to incorrect use of paracetamol. Children receiving paracetamol in their first year of life have a triple risk of developing asthma, allergy and eczema. Children of mothers taking Paracet in pregnancy also have a double risk. Today, there are 40,000 Nordics with drug-induced headaches, i.e. that they get headaches because they take too much medicine. That we're going to get television advertising for paracetamol, when we know that this is actually a health problem in Norway, I think it's a irresponsible health policy. If one thinks it's a good TV policy, at least it's irresponsible health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2496	I'm going to be pretty short. It is really for Kåre Simensen who said that the Progress Party and I would have total free slip on the advertising market, also advertising against children. I've never said that. Had I said that, it had also been followed by a proposal, and it had been in the setting. That doesn't lead to correctness, so I want to refute it. When it comes to advertising alcohol and tobacco, I suggest that if you allow it in TV broadcasts, you can also create some advertising-free areas and time zones, perhaps especially when children are present, but that you can have it in the evening. It's quite strange, I think, that editorials can be allowed to advertise the same products in the form of television programmes, radio programmes and editorials in newspapers/weekly newspapers about exactly the same products, i.e. alcohol and tobacco. Even at the NRK there have been editorial television series that refer to how you produce and enjoy alcohol. That you also get it on other platforms, I think it's good. The same applies to actual medicinal products. If you have major problems with prescription-free medicines, I must say that I am surprised that the government has not promoted a bill against advertising in weekly newspapers and newspapers, if that entails the risk involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2507	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2521	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2530	The Family and Culture Committee has discussed Prop. 126 L for 2011-2012 on proposed amendments to the Law of 9 June 1978 No 45, the Equality Act. The proposal includes proposals for clarification of the rights of parental leave. Parental leave and its expansion have been a central family policy reform implemented over some decades. It's been good for the kids, it's been good for the family, it's been good for equality. A good parental leave scheme is a prerequisite for a policy that facilitates the combination of family life and working life. It is no less important to ensure the proper functioning and clarity of the rights conferred by the parental leave on all parties. In the proposal, the Government proposes to legislate on parental leave. The proposal is part of the follow-up to the Report. St. 6 for 2010–2011, Equal pay Equality. The proposal proposes a new legal provision in the Equality Act, which states that workers who are or have been in parental leave are entitled to the same or similar position, the right to promote pay and the right to pay, and the right to benefit from general improvements in pay and working conditions. The majority of the Committee endorses the proposal. It is important to stress that the new legal provision does not establish new employment rights or obligations. The new legal provision shall legislate what can already be derived from the prohibition of gender discrimination in the Gender Equality Act. The prohibition of gender discrimination by the Equality Act protects workers from indiscriminate discrimination on grounds of parental leave. The proposal thus clarifies and clarifies the existing legal rules. The majority of the Committee agrees with the government that there is a need to make the law clearer by allowing the employment rights of permit holders to be read out in the legislative text. The current legal text is general, and it is necessary to refer to the practice of the courts and enforcement bodies or to the EU directive in order to know what the prohibition implies for employers and workers. It is also important that, in the case of work for an equivalent parent, laws and paragraphs not only produce effects and results. Attitudes and practices in everyday life in the workplace are also a determining factor in ensuring continued progress in the work of an equivalent parent. In this context, you might ask, have we come there to the point that it is as simple for a father to warn that he is taking out long maternity leave, as it is for a mother? Is it as easy for a father to avail himself of the right to be at home with a sick child as it is for a mother? Is it just as easy for a father to ask the employer to go down to a part-time job, or for that part to ask for freedom from a parent meeting or other obligations related to the parent role, as it is for a mother? Here, in my opinion, there is still a long way to go. This is a theme that we still need to focus on, both in order to ensure laws and paragraphs, and in order for attitudes and practices in the workplace to change in the direction we want for a still equivalent parenthood. It is therefore important that the majority of the Committee has opted for the Stortinge to adopt a proposal for the Stortinge to ask the Government to take the initiative in a cooperation project with the employment organisations to focus on attitudes in the labour market to the equivalent responsibilities of fathers and mothers. The Christian People's Party has been busy for a long time, we have wanted to adopt such a proposal, and we are therefore very pleased that today we see that there will be a majority for it. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2548	I refer to the rapporteur's brilliant presentation of what a broad majority in this Chamber is behind, namely a clarification of rights. There is a need to make the law clearer so that you can read the rights from the legal text. We know, as the rapporteur explained, that today you have a legal text that is too general, and that you have to go to other places to find out which practice to establish. There are many questions about parents' rights that are still unresolved for very many, especially for fathers, and I am pleased that the case-rapporteur included them in his statement. One is about whether you get the opportunity to take leave, and the other is about what both mothers and fathers experience: what happens after you get back to work after a leave? Although the Right Party and the Advance Party do not care much about how to constantly improve the rights of employees in the workplace and do not see the need for it – we are used to it, because we have always had to drag the two parties after the hair when it comes to progress in the field of equality – it is therefore such that these matters do not come to light on a mountain. They come as a consequence of the fact that there are too poor attitudes in the labour market among business leaders and among people who are labour managers. It comes from the fact that there have been too weak rights, that there are still areas where the rights are too weak and that the law has been partly too unclear. This is the result of workers who take leave, both fear and experience the passing on of attendance, salary-fixing, bonus-calculation, and in particular the allocation of duties. It is the responsibility of both employers, colleagues and other employees to support men and women who want to take responsibility for their own children and be at home during leave, so that they do not experience that the job has been taken away when they are back. We also see that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman receives a number of enquiries from people who experience that pregnancy and parental leave have a negative impact on them in the workplace. This shows that there is a need for this kind of clarification, and I am pleased that there is a broad majority behind it. I would also like to draw attention to what points forward – in addition to what we are adopting today – namely what the rapporteur points to at the end of his speech, namely the majority's proposal to the government to take an initiative towards the employment organisations. I think it is extremely important that we address more fully the responsibilities of employers, business managers and employers in supporting parents' ability to take responsibility for care. One might think that one has come a long way in Norway, but by 8 October this year we could read about a business manager – quite profiled as such – who said that he appreciates those who abstain from the full quota. What kind of signal does it send? Well, for people who are unsure of the boss's point of view, for people who are uncertain about what they encounter when they get back to work, that means they're becoming more uncertain about what rights they have. Therefore, it is important that we have made this clear in the law, so it is important that we still have our own father's quota, because we know that many men meet these kinds of attitudes. But I also want to warn those business leaders who think that this is the way to the future of their business. I think they will experience that with these kinds of attitudes you are weaker in the fight for the workers of the future, in the fight for the best minds. Luckily, in parallel with the gradual improvement of the law, in parallel with the fact that more men have had the opportunity to stay at home, and in parallel with the fact that more people stand up for the rights they have when they come back from leave, we see that more men are now on the track and demanding their rights. It's very joyful, and we're shoulder to shoulder with them. It's just a shame the Progress Party and the Right are not in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2561	The Progress Party is counting on parents' rights and better freedom of choice for families. Stokkan-Grande is talking about standing shoulder to shoulder, and the Progress Party is shoulder to shoulder with the families. This bill that we are going to deal with today, I have tried to read quite many times, because I wonder if it is necessary or if it is a gimmick from the government to tell it how much it is paying for equality. The Progress Party considers, in principle, that legislative changes should be reserved for the desire to change a legal state. It is not done in this case. In this proposal, the government argues the importance of obtaining information. One does not promote a legislative proposal to obtain information – information can and should be provided in completely different ways, rather than through a legislative proposal. Nor has the Progress Party seen that there is an unmet need for information on parental leave rights and will it support the current proposal. It is clearly said that the legislative proposal should only make the protection of discrimination by parental leave more effective. In addition, attention is paid to the fact that the proposal is merely a clarification and clarification of rules already laid down by law, and that the new legal provision does not establish new employment rights or obligations. The Equality Act already protects workers from indiscriminate discrimination due to parental leave. This new legal provision must legislate what can already be derived from the prohibition of gender discrimination in the Gender Equality Act. The Equality Act already protects workers from indiscriminate discrimination on grounds of parental leave, and the bill will also mean that parental leave rules are to be found in three different laws, all of which must be agreed on as little as appropriate. So we can essentially ask ourselves what this bill is meant for. Several heavy hearing bodies have also been critical of this legislative change. The government notes that the law will not, therefore, impose new restrictions on the flexibility of the employer – compared with the previous speaker said – but the aim of the legislation is to make the rules already in force more effective. The Hearing Officers have said that the bill is not very suitable for either clarifying or informing, when that is the government's intention, and that there is no need to promote a separate law on this matter. In addition, several consultation bodies have said that when a legislative proposal is now being promoted, it falls within the scope of the Working Environment Act, since it contains obligations and rights in relation to employment. That's why I'm asking why the government, if this is so important to uphold the rights, does not add this to the Working Environment Act. It is important to remember that the Labour Environment Act already contains provisions on the right to leave, on protection against discrimination and rules on dismissal. If the purpose of this bill is to reach the social partners with information, the Labour Environment Act is clearly better suited than the Equality Act. In addition, the government, as the Progress Party sees it, notes that the amendment to the equality law must be followed up by a significant information campaign. Then much of the purpose of the whole amendment of the law will disappear. The progress party simply did not understand the meaning of the whole case. We believe that the rights of those who have had parental leave are well cared for today, and we need more information, it can be provided in other ways. The Party of Presidents refers to its observations on the matter and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2580	The changes we are dealing with today should make the protection against discrimination more effective in the case of parental leave, but the government itself says that this proposal is only meant to clarify and clarify the rules already laid down. The new legal provision does not establish any new employment rights or obligations. The Equality Act already protects workers from indiscriminate discrimination due to parental leave. In addition, the legislative proposal would imply that the rules on parental leave are to be found in three different laws. This is terribly little appropriate. The Working Environment Act already contains provisions on the right to leave, on protection against discrimination and rules on dismissal. If the purpose of this amendment is to reach the social partners with information, I believe that the work environment law must probably be much better suited than what the equality law is. The new legal provision shall legislate what can already be derived from the prohibition of gender discrimination in the Gender Equality Act. The prohibition of sex discrimination by the Equality Act protects workers from indiscriminate discrimination on grounds of parental leave. The proposal thus provides for clarification and clarification of the applicable statutory rules. So the new legal provision does not establish any new employment rights or obligations. The right has noted the points made by several hearing bodies, including: KS, NHO and Specter. They claim that this bill is not very suitable for neither clarifying nor informing. They do not believe that there is a need to promote a separate law on this matter. You can therefore ask yourself what the purpose of this whole proposal is, and why you haven't put it into a law that's better suited. However, if such a bill were to be promoted, it should have been in the context of the Environmental Protection Act, as it includes obligations and rights in relation to working conditions in the Work Environment Act. The right considers, in principle, that legislative changes should be reserved for the desire to change the legal status. That is not the case today. We also record that the government will not propose a statutory information obligation for employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2593	The centre party is concerned that everyone should have equivalent opportunities, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, level of function, marital status, place of residence and ethnicity. The aim is an equal society in which women and men have shared responsibilities for the family and equal opportunities to participate in the development of democracy, society and business. Equal pay for equal work is a fundamental principle of equality. Norway has a high level of female employment and is cutting very high on the UN gender equality index, while distinguishing itself by having a very gender-based labour market and a sustained pay gap. Women dominate in the public sector, while men work more in the private and technical sectors. Although women are increasingly taking higher education, women still serve less than men, and pay differentials are growing, especially in the early stages, as mother is most often at home. The central party therefore considers it appropriate and important that the government now proposes a new legal provision in the Equality Act which clarifies the rights of employees when they are in or come back from parental leave. The rapporteur referred to this. The Right Party and the Advance Party are strongly critical of whether we need such clarification. However, the red-green government is committed to making the protection of discrimination more effective, and thus preventing workers from getting a weakened position, weaker wage developments or changing working conditions as a result of parental leave. The legislative proposal has been at a broad consultation. Many hearing bodies point out that there is a need to clarify the rights in relation to parental leave in a separate legal provision. They point out that the proposal will clarify in a better way than at present the rights and obligations of the permit. It is important to point out that a legislative act will not impose new restrictions on the flexibility of the employer and that the purpose of the provision is to make existing rules more effective. A clarification of the legal text of parental leave rights will promote equality and equal pay between women and men. Legislation shall prevent impaired position, weaker wage developments and changes in working conditions as a result of absences during leave. Of course, the rights should apply equally to both women and men, but because it is still the case that women take out most of the total leave period and are therefore more vulnerable to this type of discrimination, rights will have special significance for women. The proposals promoted in the bill are a follow-up to the equal pay notification. I would like to make it clear that strengthening the equivalent parenthood between mother and father is primarily a good thing for the children, but that it will also be positive for the work on equal pay. The centre party believes that there is a need for further measures that stimulate employers to have a staff policy with conscious strategies for leavers and employees with children. We are therefore pleased that the government today is promoting a legislative proposal that will contribute to such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2619	The size has today been the subject of a legislative proposal aimed at clarifying the rights of workers in the event of parental leave. The new legal provision states that workers who have had parental leave are entitled to return to the same or equivalent post after leave. Employees on leave shall be able to promote remuneration requirements. They shall be assessed in the same way as the colleges and shall receive the improvements in pay and working conditions they would otherwise have had it not been for the parental leave. As has been pointed out in the Chamber, employees are already entitled to do so today. Such rights result from the prohibition of gender discrimination imposed by the Gender Equality Act. The problem is that you can't read this out of the legal text. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman receives regular enquiries and complaints from workers who experience a change in working conditions after parental leave. This applies, inter alia, to: the change of duties after leave, bonus payments, the right to promote pay claims and the right to receive pay supplements. The Ministry was contacted earlier this year by a female worker who had experienced a seafaring experience of being overlooked in the payroll. She told me that the employer excluded her from the pay negotiations while she was on leave. She wanted to know if she had no rights under the equality law and said, "The employer is so square that he doesn't believe what I'm saying until I've answered it in white from the law." Now we're about to get it black on white. The new provision will make it easier for employees to invoke the law against employers and will make it easier for employers to know what is a reasonable claim from the employee. This will therefore be an equal opportunities measure which will have a major practical impact on many women. In an equal society, both men and women take out parental leave. However, women take out more of the total leave period than men. The new provision will therefore have particular significance for women. We know that poorer career development is often associated with having children, and especially long parental leave. Employees taking leave may experience the passing on of attendance, payroll, bonus calculation and allocation of duties. Absence from work related to childbirth and care is the reason for as much as 40 pst. of the average hourly wage difference between women and men in the private sector and 20 pst. in the public sector. Then I believe it is time to take hold. The legislative proposal under consideration today will promote equal pay. Then the rights are to be governed by the Equality Act. One advantage of incorporating the rules into this law is that workers will then be able to complain to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman if they do not get what they are entitled to. With this bill, the government has followed up another of the measures contained in the equal pay report, to which the Stortinget joined in April 2011. Another important measure we follow is the third division of parental leave. Together, these measures will contribute to greater equality in the family and in the workplace. However, the job is not done with these legislative changes alone. In the workplace, it must be acceptable for both women and men to take parental leave, such as: The representative Stokkan-Grande was involved, and good procedures must be established for employee leave. Both the government and the social partners have a task here in relation to the attitudes towards the equivalent responsibility of fathers and mothers and to ensure that the rights become known and used. This is a proposal on equal pay, and it is a proposal on the relationship that fathers can have with their children and that children can have with their fathers, and equality within the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2642	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2656	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Then we're in the situation that we don't have any state council here, and the president doesn't start any debate until that state council is present in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2672	Then the President assumes that we can continue the debate, but records that the Council of State that should have been here has not been present. It is unacceptable on the part of Stortinget that state councils do not appear at the beginning of the debate. But it's unfortunately not the first time this happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2675	Social dumping is an increasing problem and a threat to Norwegian employment. The public sector has a special responsibility for driving a good working life and decent and good pay and working conditions. The proposal under consideration today by the Stortinge is based on changes in the Public Acquisition Act to empower the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority to supervise public sector compliance with the regulations they are required to ensure precisely that they are complied with. In 2008, a regulation was put in place requiring the public sector to put in place clauses to ensure minimum conditions for collective agreements and public service obligations. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of the fact that the public sector has also been too poor to comply with the legislation that is actually in place, and we have had a good deal of social dumping. The proposal that the government has promoted towards Stortinget is precisely about ensuring compliance with the regulations in these contracts. However, it also shows great differences in the political landscape, because when this was dealt with in 2008, the bourgeois parties said that they did not want to put this regulation in place. The arguments at the time were that it would be a threat to local democracy that we should impose this on the municipalities, it would be too expensive and too bureaucratic, and the Progress Party, the Right and the Left went so far as to say that it was unreasonable to open up to a practice that was unparalleled in Europe. History has shown that the public has to take this responsibility more seriously. What the government is proposing, we believe, will have a more preventative effect by the fact that both municipalities and bodies governed by public law are conscious of their responsibility to ensure that the clauses to be included in the contracts are actually complied with. It is important for those who are required to make these contracts that the information is readily available. It is therefore important that the Labour Inspectorate and the Directorate for Administration and ICT cooperate to provide us with good information. It must be easy for the public to ensure that the contracts are complied with. But most of all, it's about what work we're going to have. It's about respect for honest, hard work. The public sector is also a major market player who buys private services for billions of dollars. That is why the majority of the committee believes that this will be an important contribution to ensuring that we comply with the legislation we actually have. With the differences that I mentioned in the introduction, it's quite remarkable that the Right is trying to push the kiss in front of itself as to where ESA stands on this question. The red-green government has been offensive. It's not supposed to be fair, it's supposed to be politics that determine what kind of work we get. When you choose to push ambiguities in front of the EEA Agreement, it would have been tempting to invite Right-wing representatives here in the Chamber to let the Right-wing and Right-wing women out and say that what you really want is a natural competition for pay, and we know that it does not necessarily go up. Too many industries are at high risk of going downhill. But it's about politics, it's not about jus. That's why it's important that we get this in place and have an offensive attitude to ESA as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2690	The President has registered that the Council of State Huitfeldt has finally arrived in the Chamber and will only say that the Council of State should be in the Chamber when dealing with matters. So much respect for the Storting should be delegated to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2693	First to the representative Forsberg: Fortunately, there has been a lot of water running in the sea since 2008! The Progress Party believes that the supervisory authorities are a public responsibility and have strengthened the lines of both the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Control in their alternative budget. The public is a large user of hired labour, and there are many violations of the Working Environment Act also in public offices, in line with private activities. It is important that the public discharges its obligations laid down in law, in line with other employers. The Progress Party is committed to maintaining a decent and decent working life in which employees have good conditions. This principle applies regardless of where the employees come from. In fact, there is no clear definition of social dumping, but it is important to clarify that we need clear rules on minimum standards in Norwegian working life. The Labour Inspectorate has exposed several critical issues in the public sector with a breach of the Work Environment Act, and by the fact that the public is also subject to the same supervision as other activities, the public will have to take its share of the responsibility of complying with the current legislation. The challenge is that the legislation is difficult to understand, that there is little knowledge and competence about how to understand the rules, and that there are many collective agreements to keep up. However, there is a need for the public to become more aware of its role as a clean employer, in line with what is expected of employers in the private sector. I refer to Adecco-saka, where the government and LO played out that there was a violation of work environment issues in the private sector, while at the same time the corresponding crimes were detected in the health and care sectors in both the municipality and the state. After all, in this case and in similar cases, the public was the principal, and then this regulation of 2008, no. 112 § 7, which states that the principals are to carry out the necessary checks as to whether the requirements of pay and working conditions are complied with, have been complied with at that time. The Labour Inspectorate has exposed several critical issues in the public sector with a breach of the Work Environment Act, and by the fact that the public is also subject to the same supervision as other activities, this will mean that the public will have to take its share of responsibility by complying with current legislation, which is important. The progress party supports this multiple choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2717	The proposal provides for the competence of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority to supervise compliance by public undertakings with Regulation No 8 February 2008. 112 on pay and working conditions in public contracts. Even in today's legislation, contracting authorities are required to inform that the projects must not have any worse pay and working conditions than those resulting from applicable general or national collective agreements. Contracting entities shall ensure in the contracts the right to put into effect and to implement the necessary penalties if suppliers or subcontractors do not comply. It shall be provided that any penalties are appropriate to enforce the terms of the contract. These requirements already exist in existing legislation and this proposal concerns only the supervision of existing rules. The proposal aims at making public purchasers responsible for preventing social dumping in public procurement chains by allowing the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority to ensure that public purchasers comply with their obligations. The right considers that public authorities have a special responsibility to prevent social dumping related to public procurement. The right also believes that it is natural for laws and regulations to be monitored and that in this case the Labour Inspectorate is a natural body. However, as an employer’s side, among others: The NHO, Spekter, KS and Strike state in their hearing opinions that it is unclear whether the legislation is non-EEA or not. It also points to uncertainties about the tariff agreements to be followed. Competitive collective bargaining agreements within one industry may be a complicating factor by the fact that the contracting entity will not find out which collective bargaining agreement is to be based. Therefore, the right considers that it may be unfortunate to introduce supervisory competence into a regulatory framework which is perceived as unclear by those who are required to comply with it and which may be EEA-unlike. However, the right-hand side supports the legislative proposal. Where the rules conflict with the EEA Agreement, the rules at issue are not supervisory competence. The right assumes that the Ministry will clarify which rules apply in which sectors, so that it is clear to public purchasers what their obligations are. I take up the Right’s proposal that the regulation does not come into force until it is clear whether the rules on public procurement are in line with current EEA law. Finally, I would like to highlight the government's proposal to change the funding system for the follow-up of the industry by means of a new fee on the sector fee system. The new funding system will require that several of the tasks of the Petroleum Supervision Authority relating to supervision and other follow-up will be covered by industry through fees and new sector fees. Both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that it is unclear what the industry is going to pay, and that the proposed levy therefore opens up to unforeseeableness in the sector. It is therefore important for the right to review the scheme for improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2738	The representative of Skovholt Gitmark has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2741	SV is very pleased that the government has presented this proposition, and also that one chooses to take such a clear position on the rules that we actually need in Norway to prevent social dumping, and such a clear position for the ILO 94. It's an important principle that you have to follow if you're going to follow it as well. The European Parliament has said about ILO conventions. ILO conventions are tripartite international agreements and are very important. In order to raise labour standards internationally, the EU’s two decision-making bodies have repeatedly agreed that all updated ILO conventions need to be ratified by all EU countries. After all, it must be intended that these ILO conventions should actually govern what is happening. Social dumping is about some kind of international wage extortion. When unemployment is as high as it is in the countries around us, it is not surprising that people are coming. Nor is it strange that someone wants to exploit the desperation, and we also know that the public sector has bypassed the rules. Therefore, it is necessary that we commit ourselves to the standard set by the ILO 94, and which now – I am pleased – the Right and Advance Party say they are in favour. When we decided this a few years ago – I've been going into things today and looking back in history – they were, of course, against other measures against social dumping. Social dumping is so extremely profitable that the risk of being taken must be increased, and the consequences when taken must also be worse. It must sting. It is necessary to establish supervision of this legislation which ensures that everyone follows it, including the public sector. To put it this way: Sometimes it is so cheap that I am surprised that not a contracting entity, including the contracting authority, sees it. But as the previous Minister of Labour said several times, if it's too cheap, something's wrong. It's a rule that's good, but it doesn't keep legal or keep in proportion to the control regime we have to have for the municipal sector as well. It is a little wonder in the debate on social dumping measures that the right side, but also large employers’ organisations, are so critical of measures to protect honest Norwegian companies that comply with the law, or also foreign companies that comply with the law. It is with a little increasing amazement that you constantly criticise these measures, which are not only intended to protect the workers, but are also intended to protect the companies, the organisations and the agencies that follow the law. SV believes that this is a very good principle that we should stick to in the future. I think that in the future we will see more issues in which we can risk having our legislation tested against both the ILO standards and the demands of ESA and the EU. That is why I very much welcome the government's clear position on this issue and also on the government's clear position on the enforcement directive that will go right into our action against social dumping, where the EU has now set up an exhaustive list of measures that can be used and where several of the measures that Norway has adopted and that are good are not on the list. Then the government has signaled very clearly that there you want to stand on the Norwegian rules and have this changed. This is absolutely necessary, because different countries will need different rules on a part of the mechanisms put in place in order to prevent the end of the labour market. But the ILO 94 is an international, very broad code to which many countries have joined and which will provide a good standard of what we want to keep up. So this is about ensuring that neither the municipal sector nor the public sector buys social dumping, because it will help not only to exploit foreign workers but also to put pressure on Norwegian wages in the long run. That's SV against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2757	I am very pleased that the entire Labour and Social Committee agrees with the government that the public sector has a special responsibility to help ensure that foreign workers are not exploited in the Norwegian labour market. The public sector is a major and important buyer of various services. The public sector is thus a very important player in ensuring a good and serious working life for all. I am also very pleased that the entire committee agrees with the government's proposal that the Labour Inspectorate should supervise public sector compliance with the rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts. Fortunately, large parts of the public sector are responsible and fulfil their obligations. Unfortunately, there are plenty of examples of municipalities and businesses that need to be looked at in the cards. Then it is important to bear in mind that there is a lot of good guidance on the purchase when the Labour Inspectorate comes. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate believes that access to the contracting authority will facilitate the supervision of undertakings and employers in the contract chain. I believe that this is within the EEA law, and we are still in dialogue with ESA on this issue. I have good faith that we will reach out with our views. These are precisely based on a belief that the public sector has a particular responsibility for ensuring a good and serious working life. Thus, together with the supervisor, the Labour Inspectorate is responsible for informing about the legislation. They must also be able to provide guidance on the requirements of the public service regulation and the collective bargaining agreement that apply. The Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate are therefore cooperating with Digi to develop good and accessible information. Good and available information is therefore very important for purchasers in the public sector and the enterprises to provide services to the public. It is important, of course, that the Labour Inspectorate should have time to prepare for the supervisory tasks they are carrying out. The budget has gradually gained extensive experience of overseeing pay and working conditions. The compliance of contracting authorities with the requirements laid down in this Regulation will nevertheless be subject to new challenges. In view of this, I propose that the supervisory responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate should not enter into force until 1 July 2013. Finally, I would like to stress that although the Labour Inspectorate is given this responsibility to supervise, it does not reduce the responsibility of the contracting authority to ensure that the conditions are complied with. Indeed, supervision cannot be over everything at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2777	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2791	I would just like to recommend the vote on behalf of the Committee and draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party is voting against Section 15-6 on the basis of the proposal we had in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2796	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2810	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2824	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2830	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e2891	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2–6, from the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case on how the central government collection centre can operate in accordance with the provisions of the Debt Collection Act. [[SI]] The Government shall also come back with a case concerning the separation of SI's inviting entity as its own activities.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting on the basis of the manner in which the recovery operations carried out by SI today may be tendered, so that other recovery operations also have the opportunity to compete for the contracts.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case on how collection functions on behalf of the State can become more flexible and less threatening creditors without significantly compromising the callability.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals that give an equal interest rate of delay for public claims as for other requirements in order to avoid distortions of competition.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals to enable it to request the assistance of the State Enforcement Centre, which is subject to the Act on the Compensation of Victims, even if the claim is convicted in civil proceedings.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3295	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Party of Prosperity, from the right, from the Christian Party, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 127 L Law on the Central Collection of the State is sent back to the Government for more detailed treatment.» [[SI Act]] [[2011-2012]] The President notes that paragraph 11 of the Act contains amendments to 36 other laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3313	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3327	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3391	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3401	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3584	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3595	There is a vote on the Committee's position on the first paragraph of Section 2-7 of Section II. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3609	A vote shall be taken on the opinion of the Committee for the remainder of II and III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3619	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3629	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3653	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose that the State assist the Municipality of Oslo in the establishment of a new Munch Museum.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3666	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3679	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3687	During the debate, Olemic Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the film and videogram laws, after consultation of interested parties in order to ensure sound treatment.’ Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3723	The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3736	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3750	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3758	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. proposal No 4 and 5, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and 5 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assistant/student scheme to allow established artists to hire newly educated artists as assistants/students.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for some grant schemes that will strengthen the international work of Norwegian artists, in particular with a view to participating in the most recognised international art fairs.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3791	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 2 and 3, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan for the phase-in of paid schemes for artists for public museum exhibitions.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a gift-enhancing scheme aimed at the State Art Museums’ purchasing schemes.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to seek out a mechanism to stimulate private decoration missions in public spaces aimed at the artistic consultant’s competence in each project.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3836	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Act No 28 August 1992 No 103 on gambling, etc. the following changes are made:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3912	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3925	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3935	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3960	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on the proposals from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case for the lifting of the ban on political television advertising.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case to put an end to the ban on television advertising for medicinal products authorised for sale in the store.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the question of settlement of payments in the event of an obligation to provide information and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e3998	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the need for subtitles for broadcasting and audiovisual ordering services can be most effectively regulated and brought back to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4015	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case to put an end to the ban on television advertising on tobacco and alcohol.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4481	The position I of the Committee shall be contested, with the exception of the first subparagraph of paragraphs 8 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4492	It is then voted on the Committee's position in the first paragraph of Sections 8 to 5. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4507	It shall be heard on the positions II, III and IV of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4517	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4527	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4581	The Committee shall be consulted on the positions A I and II of the Committee. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4596	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right also want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4610	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4613	It shall be put to the vote on the position B of the Committee. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will now support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4629	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The size of the government is asked to wait to implement the changes to Prop. 5 L until it is clear whether the public procurement law can be practised in accordance with EEA law.» [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4690	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4700	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4823	It is then voted over Section IV, Section 15-6, second paragraph. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4838	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4848	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4955	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-10.ana.ud2200e4965	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 17, report, has been dealt with earlier today. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
