ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e26	The representatives Henning Skumsvoll and Erling Sande, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. There is a permit application, from the representative of Åge Starheim, for health leave from 16 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Anne June Iversen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e52	Anne June Iversen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e64	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e71	When the Prime Minister – quite rightly as party leader in the Workers' Party – gave his speech to the National Government of the Workers' Party not long ago, he warned against some road financing projects because he felt it would be unnecessary to finance road construction with loans since we had so much money in Norway. He went quite far in calling this a trick with budgetary policy and had some interpretations that it might be possible to fool the budget, but one did not wonder the reality. Last Friday came Prop. 109 S for 2011-2012, which concerns the financing and expansion of the so-called Ryfast link. It is a road project in Rogaland with an investment cost of approx. 4.8 B.C.E. kr. When you look at how this is to be financed, it has to be financed in such a way that it is twice as expensive for the drivers, the taxpayers. So you have to pay $9.9 billion. Tolls, because it is also going to finance interest and collection costs, which makes the project twice as expensive for the drivers as it could be if you, for example. had released the 5 billion. kr that have been paid into additional tax revenue as revised, which the government chooses to deposit on book abroad. I thought I would give the Prime Minister an opportunity to clarify this. I think it is more than me who have some problems understanding how the Prime Minister can at one moment warn against loan-funded road projects, because then a few weeks later to present just such a model, namely a loan-funded road development that ends up giving the drivers double price tag on a project that could thus have been fully funded up front by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e80	This government is too good for roads, good for rail and for responsible economic policy. This government has shown that we're able to get to both of them at the same time. We have increased investment strongly – 100 billion. kr extra and path over this planning period – and we follow it up. Therefore, roads and railways are being built to a greater extent than has ever been done in Norway. In addition, we are responsible for our use of money, because we are engaged in the workplaces, businesses, the export industry, interest rates and crown rates. That's why we want cleanliness in the budgets, don't run and trick with budgets to try to spend more money without being honest and honest about it. We have a long tradition – and the tradition that we support by the government has a broad majority in Stortinget – which suggests that we allocate money to the state budget for transport measures. There we have greatly increased the framework. And then you've also accepted that those who believe that 100 billion. kr in extra bets are too small, and wanting even more roads – it has been accepted that additional projects can be speeded up through toll financing. It comes in addition, where purchasing power is collected by paying toll charges to the drivers. That's why it has a different impact on the economy than granting money. That's why you've accepted that toll projects will be added. The prerequisite for its implementation is local desire. Then it has to be organized. They are often private owners, they are municipal owners, they are local owners, and they collect their money through toll financing. If the state were to finance it in addition, there would be an increase in the use of oil money. You might be afraid of that, but we're afraid of that because it can go beyond interest rates and interest rates and the workplaces. We have to distinguish between the two ways of financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e93	The Prime Minister gives the impression that toll projects are something you voluntarily get in addition to what the State grants. That's not true. So to say all road projects launched in Norway today, toll financing is required. I have a question. The Prime Minister stood in the National Government of the Workers Party and warned against loan-funded road projects because he thought it was unnecessary expensive. But at the same time, that's exactly what the government does when, for example, they do. present this proposition — which means financing Norwegian roads on a pay-off basis, but with a significant dimension, namely that the project will be twice as expensive. It is possible that there is a responsible economic policy in the head of a prime minister from the Workers' Party. But in my head it's unnecessary wasted money when you double the cost of a project because you choose a form of collection that is unnecessary, all the time the state has enough money to finance it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e100	There is a difference between granting money and obtaining money in a market or through e.g.: tolls, where one obtains money by withdrawing private purchasing power. We are concerned about the total use of money over the state budget. It is an honest thing to say that we should abolish all toll projects, the money should be granted over the state budget. But then you either have to increase the taxes to get that money, or you can cut for health, education and other purposes – or you could say that we're using some extra billion oil crowns. Of course you can think of that. But I'm very worried that if we increase the oil money usage, interest and exchange rates will go into the weather. It has happened before, it has happened in Norway and in other countries. That's when I say that we grant more than ever, there's a huge increase in appropriations to the road and the track. If you want projects in addition to them, it has to be financed by cutting purchasing power, through toll projects. We do both, and both contribute to strengthening Norwegian transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e107	Three questions have been asked and given rise to follow-up – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e110	Everyone here in this room is for better road, rail and responsible policy. The question is whether to build Norwegian roads by allowing foreign capitalists to take interest income from Norwegian drivers. I have to correct the Prime Minister: it's not 100 billion. kr more on the way that is promised by this government, but 100 billion. kr more for all infrastructure. So you're exaggerating a little bit. But in the eyes of the Progress Party, it's irresponsible politics to borrow money to build roads, when the state has a big profit. There's no point in that we're going to borrow money from abroad to 6.5 pst. interest rate – as we do, for example. has made E6 Colomoen – while at the same time we lend Norwegian oil money to 1.8 pst. interest to Germany. It is a poor economic policy, not a profitable economic policy. But if it is the case that all the government's expenditure is to be covered within the budget, the Prime Minister can then explain why SAS has received 1.3 billion. kr outside the state budget? Is the flight attendant the most important thing we have to spend money on in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e121	In many ways I prefer the old Progress Party, because they were honest and said, "We want to spend more money." Then you were clear and honest about it, and then you defended it. Now you're trying to construct new ways to spend money on hiding that you actually want a huge increase in money use. Then I say, it's an honest thing to want more money for a purpose. Then you either get cut for another purpose, increase taxes, or say, we're going to increase the total use of money in society. That's what the Progress Party said before. It's the Progress Party alone to think, and that's okay, but that leads to what we're not supposed to have in Norway – increased price growth, increased interest rates, increased dollar rates and problems for Norwegian companies. There is the Progress Party – or at least has been – quite alone. The Right has now begun to become somewhat unclear about the responsible use of money, but we are concerned about the responsible use of money. Are we going to suddenly say that we are no longer going to charge billions of tolls, but to grant them over the state budget – and then we are increasing significantly the risk of increased unemployment and problems in the Norwegian economy? It must be brought with it by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e126	There's an obvious misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e131	There is no way of taking the floor to clarify obvious misunderstandings in the oral question procedure, so I ask the representatives to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e135	It is permissible to clarify misunderstandings!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e140	Øyvind Halleraker - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e143	I think Stoltenberg must find out that he is creating a little bit of confusion here. He said in the Question Time on October 26th: ‘If Norway starts to finance road projects, we have arranged very foolishly.’ That's just this example that's referred to earlier here. I want to get caught up in another disagreement, which is within the same area. In the evening post on Monday we could see that the Workers' Party is now running for project funding – and with that loan models à la Gardermoen development. It is the party's cultural policy spokespersons who claim this. Then we know that Stoltenberg has said several times in this room that you do not, and in the Yellow Book in 2006, this was scolded by the Ministry of Finance. What do the government and Stoltenberg really mean about this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e155	First, I want to clear up a manifest misunderstanding: I'm against the government borrowing money, because the government has enough cash to finance the projects we're committed to investing in. We borrow money for loans, but we don't borrow money for investment projects. Something quite different is that a private bombing company, which can consist of private or municipal owners, borrows money. How they finance must be their assessment – whether they finance themselves with own funds or with foreign capital – and the interest they pay reflects the risk in the project. Of course, the state could say, no, we should not have tolls. The right has always been for toll projects; the right manages the largest toll projects in Norway, because it has been thought that it has been a good project, as well as the projects awarded over the State budget. As far as project funding is concerned, I am in favour of project financing. Those involved in project financing believe that a project should be financed. This government finances many road projects, many railway projects. So what I'm against is borrowing government investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e164	Knut Arild Hareide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e167	The Prime Minister says he is in favour of project financing. One of the projects on which the government thinks they have project funding is Oslo-Ski, but there is no one in Samferdsels-Noreg who knows when Oslo-Ski will be finished. No one in the railway station, no one working on this, knows when the end date is, for a huge project, 18 billion. kr! If we had seen an end date there, we could have created foreclosure for those building the project, for contractors, for supply contracts. The result of the government not having seen any end date is that the project is going to be hundreds of million dollars more expensive than it might have been if one had an end date. Does the Prime Minister see that the way to organise this type of project – not having an end date – does not create carelessness?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e174	I am a strong supporter of rail development across the country – at least where there is a railway – and I am also a supporter of expanding into the Oslo area. That's what we've been doing. We have recently opened important stages on the West Corridor, and we have started work with Oslo-Ski. This is a project we are concerned with implementing, but before we make the final investment decision, we have to, among other things. to implement the design, the quality assurance we are now in the process of doing. The challenge there is that this project was initially estimated to cost between 5 and 6 billion. So, 11 billion. And the last number I've seen is about 18 billion. kr. It has to be financed, it has to be granted from the State budget, and when I am a member of project funding, it is an expression that I want us to complete projects, as we have done with many other railway projects and many other road projects. Some of the confusion in this debate is that people use words a little bit about each other. Some people believe that if you finance a project and call it project funding, the state has to borrow money for that project – there is something quite different than funding the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e184	There's something there's reason to rejoice in our society. Among other things, last year's statistics showed that the number of deaths in Norwegian traffic had fallen below 200, there were 170 people who died in traffic, a significantly lower figure than the previous year. From the peak in road safety in 2000, Norway fell to fifth place during the decade we have left behind. Although we had improvement last year, the first numbers from this year show that the number is increasing. There are 54 people who lost their lives in traffic in the first four months, compared to 51 people last year. Of the 13 who died tragically and brutally in traffic in April, six were killed in a frontal collision. There's a pretty big connection between the quality of the road and the end of an accident, that is, whether people are seriously injured or killed. Accidents may happen, but when we have poorly secured roads, the consequences of accidents are greater than they would otherwise have been. Therefore, we think it was good that the government in the national transport plan said that it should build more pitfalls: 750 km ‘middle and other minor road safety improvements’. We want a higher rate. What we were not prepared for was what happened later, namely that the pitfalls are now redefined to be mainly spacefields. As the expansion has been in the last few years of this government, we will be left with 195 km of mid pulleys and 595 km of spacefields. Does the Prime Minister think that the rump fields are as good protection against the loss of life in front collisions as building pitfalls?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e191	Traffic accidents — killed and injured in traffic — are one of the most serious social problems we face. It's about individuals who lose their lives, it's about individuals who get hurt, and it's about their relatives and family members. Therefore, it is important that we do more to create safer traffic – that fewer people are injured and killed in traffic. It's a long way off, it's a lot of mess, but at the same time we're going to get inspiration from the progress we're seeing. If we look far back in time, we see that back in the 1970s, there were almost 600 deaths a year. Since then, traffic has tripled, and the number of deaths has ranged from nearly 600 – at least over 500 – to around 200 and well under 200 last year. This is an expression of a long-standing and good trend with a clear improvement in Norwegian road safety. The government set itself a target of reducing the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic by at least one third by 2020. We set ourselves a milestone for 2014, and that milestone was achieved already in 2010, so we have actually got a better development than we anticipated. The number of fatalities in traffic will fluctuate slightly from year to year. We've gotten it down to 200, so last year we got clearly below 200. Of course, we can experience an increase this year, although the trend is that we are going the right way. Centres are one of the measures we are taking, but space is also a contribution to reducing the risks. The problem with Norwegian roads is that they are often too narrow for you to set up only midway units. Therefore, it is somewhat more expensive and somewhat more difficult to set up middle-parts in Norway than in other countries. Sweden, which has wider roads initially. It is believed that, in the interests of ambulance and emergency vehicles, it is irresponsible to set up middle parts only if we do not also build a wider road, so that they can arrive. We're building middle parts, we're building a wider road, but there's also a lot left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e198	There is no doubt that when the number of deaths goes down, among other things, it is. because the road standard for major sections has improved. One important measure is the separation of traffic. Very many - almost 40 pst. – by those who die in traffic, they die in a meeting collision. 50 pst. of those who are in an outing, running out to the left. All of this could have been prevented by the separation of the opposite traffic. It's when one doesn't separate opposing traffic, that an accident becomes a disaster for several families, with many killed. That's why it's a little special that the government is currently spending more time redefining what they promised in the 2009 election campaign, that's to build 750 kilometers of middles, than they're spending building them. Now you try to claim that what you promised was middle measures, but what was said in the election campaign was 750 km of shared traffic. A rumbling field wakes a slumbering driver, but it doesn't save lives in a meeting crash.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e204	I believe it is essential that we get a sign of counter-trafficking traffic, and therefore many measures are taken, including middle parts, but not least the expansion of the motorway. More than 200 km of new motorway since 2005 on heavily worked routes is also a contribution to explaining why the number of fatalities in traffic is falling. There are many things that have to be done, but speed is still the main cause of traffic accidents. Better, stronger traffic monitoring, route-based speed checks also help to reduce the number of fatalities in traffic. As I tried to say in my previous answer, a challenge is that in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s narrow roads were built in Norway. This means that on very many roads in Norway it is not possible to put up a middle part physically without preventing ambulances and emergency cars from arriving. Therefore, roads need to be expanded, so Norway is taking longer than in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e213	There will be three follow-up questions – first Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e216	We knew about the width of the roads in Norway, when we promised the number of kilometres to be built with the middle parts, even when we adopted the National Transport Plan. Rumble field does not stop a trailer or a trailer on a trailer that comes across, nor does it appear when there is snow and ice in the road. So that's not a good solution. The meeting accidents are related to the state of the road. It is our responsibility, as politicians. There are also many other causes of road accidents, but at least this is our responsibility. All the traffic protection organisations want a roof of 4000 ÅDT for when we are going to build middle parts. In the right we've taken this seriously. We have included it in our traffic safety plan. I have a challenge for the government and the Prime Minister: will the Prime Minister support this when they come with their transport plan for the winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e225	I think it's very positive and happy that the Right is so engaged in social issues. It is also positive that they are much more to invest in roads now than they were in the vicinity of when they were in government and were responsible for budgets and transport policy. Road appropriations have increased sharply. We're happy about that. There's one contribution to fewer deaths on the roads. Traffic monitoring has increased. It is also a contribution. Centers are built. Exactly what should be the criteria, and what should be included in the national transport plan, we should present in the national transport plan. But what I can say is that both the transport plan we are now following, and the one we are going to present next year for further development, will contain significant road and road safety efforts, so that we can continue the positive development, where the number of deaths on Norwegian roads goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e232	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e235	I'm recording that the Prime Minister was doing so well. He didn't say road safety. I also heard that the Prime Minister said in the previous round that they built narrow roads in the 1950s and 1960s. Then I wonder if the Prime Minister should not go back to his office afterwards and look at one of the new projects being treated in Stortinget, at the E16 Bagn–Fønhus, where it is proposed to build 8.5 metres of road width. This means that it is not possible to set up road safety measures. Perhaps the Prime Minister should go back and see what his own Minister of Transport is doing. This is just one example. This government is building narrow, road-hazardous roads and not wide, road-proof roads. Will the Prime Minister now guarantee that building new roads will build them wide, so that it is actually possible to put in place middle parts and other road safety measures in 2012, and not just to blame for what was done in the 1950s and 1960s?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e240	I believe that good roads are traffic-proof roads. For me, it is not possible that we should have good roads that are not roadworthy. For me, there are two sides to the same thing. It is also the case that many measures, including: significant investment in roads, a significant increase in four-field motorways in our country in recent years has helped to reduce traffic accidents. My point in the 1950s and 1960s is that the so-called road standard in Norway has been narrower for many years than in Sweden. That's why it's easier to set up the physical middle parts if the way is wide, but if it's narrow, it's hard. Then you have to expand the road or have non-physical middle parts. We build longer roads, we build wider roads now than we did before. Exactly the distance the representative refers to, I do not know in detail. However, the results show that what is now done in road and road safety reduces the number of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e249	Knut Arild Hareide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e252	It is quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that Swedish Road was more prepared to build mid-driving works on than Norwegian roads. Then we should also be so honest and say that a mining plant is a relatively new tool, but it has proved to be extremely successful in the fight against traffic death and the number of traffic damage. Therefore, my challenge to the Prime Minister: When we know how successful this has been, and the government is now working on the next National Transport Plan, can he promise that just a midway network will be a major field of action for the next National Transport Plan? Then it's not enough just to have the money to set up the parking lot, so we also have to bet on expanding the main years of travel that we know we need an extension to make room for just a pitfall, which has been shown to be very successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e257	What I can promise is that the national transport plan will include further stepping up measures to improve road safety on Norwegian roads. It also involves adjoining works. Exactly how many dollars we will spend on different measures comes in the national transport plan and in the annual budgets. In addition to the mid pulley, it is clear that what we are now doing for the four-field motorway, where one can soon drive on the motorway from Hamar to Oslo, to Svinesund and from Svinesund to Grenland. We've built it in mid-Norway. We're building E6 in North Norway. We're building out a lot of other big roads. It also helps to increase road safety and reduce the number of people dying on Norwegian roads. Mid-term review is an important measure. This government follows it up, as well as other measures. The sum improves road safety on Norwegian roads and the lowest number of deaths in many, many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e266	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e270	I have a question about a topic that is both ethically demanding and difficult, but which nevertheless deserves to be raised into the Stortinget. In January of this year, midwives and child caregivers sent a letter to the Health Directorate at the birth department of the Rikshospitalet. the Minister for Health. The theme was abortion practice in the department. They responded to the number of sensitivities granted after appeal in the central complaint subject, and several sensitivities granted because of the ‘social indication’. So the fetus was healthy. The midwives write in their letter: ‘There have been several births of foetuses in weeks 20 to 23 with cardiac activity between 45 to 90 minutes after birth and weighing up to 400 to 600 grams in several cases under the ‘social indication’. At the time of abortion, children are spontaneously born in weeks 23 to 24 who are transferred to the neonatal ward and given intensive treatment.’ The midwives point out that they think this is a very difficult ethical situation, even conscientiously. They have experienced that in several such senaborts there have been born children who are and could have been viable. This shows us that it is important to have employees who think ethically and critically. I am convinced that the Prime Minister reacted in the same way as the rest of us when this practice was revealed. In the Abortion Act, it is called, among other things, that, if there is ‘reason to believe that the foetus is viable, authorisation for abortion may not be granted’. My question to the Prime Minister is: When healthy children are born and live after birth, should not these children be given the same rights – help to live – whether they are born spontaneously or provoked?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e286	This is a serious matter, it's an important matter, and it's about some basic principles, not least in terms of the protection of life, and respect for our being very careful about where we set limits on allowing abortion. Here we have a code that implies that there is self-determined abortion until the 12th week of pregnancy. Then it is possible to have abortions between 12 and 22 weeks, but then after examination. And then it shouldn't be abortion after 22 weeks unless either the mother's or the fetus's life is in danger. It's – a little bit simplified – today's legislation. Then there have been reports that the legislation has not been followed, and that there has been criticism of how the denominators have interpreted this in view of abortion after the 22nd week of pregnancy. A case was sent to the Health Ministry of the Directorate-General for Health, where it was clearly concluded that this was a practice that was not satisfactory. They have been informed that they will be intensified in order to comply with the legislation. Abortion of viable foetuses shall not occur. Not least, improved technology makes it possible for more people to be born in the past and survive, so this becomes an even more important issue with the new technology that we have gradually developed in the Norwegian health system. Firstly, the matter has been raised with the greatest seriousness by the Health Directorate, who has made the report, and by the Ministry of Health, who has stressed that the practice is to be intensified. In addition, the Minister of Health will ask for a separate expert group, an independent expert group, to review the legislation and practices relating to the provision of the abortion law, both in the primary and the central issue of abortion. That group shall consist of lawyers and doctors in order to review practices and ensure that they do so in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e299	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the government has responded to the practice that has been revealed. But this shows us some of the ethical dilemma that we are now facing, with a code that was created at a time when medical development had not come as far as it is now. Now there are people working in the maternity ward, side by side, where you save healthy children who are born, and on the other hand, children who have exactly the same weight and the same number of weeks that you put everything in to save. In addition to just looking at the implementation of practice, this suggests – and I want the Prime Minister to confirm – that the legislation that was made almost 40 years ago needs to be reviewed and compared with medical developments. No matter what fundamental view we have of abortion, this is a task that society has to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e308	I agree that this is an ethical dilemma. The challenge here is that we have had a practice that, according to our judgement, has not been in line with the legislation. We need evidence of this and to ensure that the legislation is practised. The dilemma is this: there is a broad consensus that we should be able to accept abortion on the very youngest fetuses. The majority believe that it should be up to the woman to decide for herself the first 12 weeks, but also the Christian People's Party – as far as I understand – has been aware that during the first few weeks abortion can be accepted if there has been a decision in a name. What is special is that after the 22nd week of pregnancy, abortion is not to be granted for reasons of the physical or mental health of the woman, the situation of life or conditions affected by the criminal law, such as: incest or rape. So after 22 weeks, it shouldn't be abortion unless the mother's life or the fetus's life is in danger. It is the practice that is challenged, and it is the practice that needs to be reinforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e315	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e318	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is now very clear, that the practice that has now been revealed can't continue. And then there's also an ethical dilemma here. We know that we have 299 seconds away on the basis of social indications, i.e. that there is nothing wrong with the fetus – a healthy child could have been born. Then we, as politicians, have to ask us some questions, because then the social situation is that these children are not born. We know that we have a one-time benefit that is very low, and it makes it very unfair if one is not in a job. We know, for example, that students have a very small overview of what rights they have to give birth to the child. Does the Prime Minister see that we have a job to do to improve social conditions, so that more people do well to bring up children – when we have 299 sedans on social indications?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e327	I am committed to facilitating that as much as possible want to provide the child – carry out the pregnancy. We all want to contribute to the least possible abortions. I believe that it is still right that we have a law that means that the woman decides for herself the first 12 weeks, that it is possible to get an examination between 12 and 22 weeks, and that we have a ban on abortion afterwards, unless the life of the woman or the foetus is threatened. I'm concerned about improving the situation of families with children. I believe that we have done a lot both through what has happened to the parental leave, what has happened through kindergartens and through many other measures, which makes Norway a country where being a mother is consistently good. But some people are in a situation where they feel that it is still difficult to bring the child forward, and then we have to look at what more we can do to improve the conditions for the mothers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e334	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e337	As the Prime Minister also confirms, this is a very serious matter. I want to commend the midwives who called into question the illegal practice of the abortion law. I, in addition to representatives from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, sent a letter a week ago to the Minister of Health asking that she explain the matter to the Stortinge, the follow-up to it with emphasis on an assessment of the legal position of the children concerned and what assessments the complainant has made of the need for clarification of the legislation, but we have not received an answer. Is it not the Prime Minister's reasonable wish that the Minister of Health should come to Stortinget and explain such a serious matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e344	I dare not say exactly what the Minister of Health has for plans, but as far as I have understood, she would answer a question in Stortinget about this. In any case, there is at least an answer to the attention given to this matter, not least by the Christian People's Party, that an expert group of lawyers, doctors and independent expertise is now being set up to review this practice, go through what has happened, and look at what is to be done to ensure that the legislation and the intention of the legislation are followed. Regardless of what is believed to be the right of women to self-determined abortion in the first few weeks until the 12th week of pregnancy, there is full agreement in the Stortinget that after the 22nd week there should not be access to abortion unless the mother's or the foetus's life is threatened. That is at least a political answer, and then I am sure that the Minister of Health too is prepared to respond in a suitable way directly in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e351	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e355	I want to go back to oil money use, because it is important to pursue a responsible economic policy where taxpayers' money is not borrowed cheaply and then loaned expensively back home again, but that the money is used to invest in the country. The Prime Minister gave the impression that all government spending on money is a priority within the rule of action, whereas the Progress Party is allegedly irresponsible, which will finance socially profitable roads and railways in its own companies. This is an obvious misunderstanding, because the government itself uses this model when they build airports. It's called the Avinor model. Avinor is allowed to invest, operate and plan airports outside the state budget, but not only Avinor is allowed to do so. In the revised budget, 425 million were allocated. kr to a seed fund. The government budget says that this is money that is granted outside the rule of action. So they don't count into the 4 pst rule. Similarly, oil money has been used for SAS, DnB, Aker, Hydro, Statskog, Norfund, BaneTele and Kommunalbanken – I think the Prime Minister is taking the point. That's almost 10 billion. NOK a year outside the rule of action of companies that use the money back into the Norwegian economy, and I have not even started to mention the oil industry. The oil industry would have 25 billion dollars. kr in State investment in the budget submitted last autumn. In the revised budget, this has been 26 billion. So you've increased it by 1 billion. kr without being recorded by the rule of action and without mention. Similarly, in 2010 Statkraft was added 14 billion. kr in equity – much of it is oil money. 4 B.C.E. NOK is now included in the State budget, although the company had only 40 million. kr in profit. What was oil money in 2010 has now become power money that can be used within the framework of the rule of action – so one can save the oil money and be responsible like that, but it's cheating on the reality of people out there. Sum total: several hundred billion kroner are used in the Norwegian economy. Then the question is, why can airports be built in this way, but not let socio-economically profitable roads be built in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e370	First of all, we are concerned that, in the context of sound use of money, as it is now spent on the state budget, we have increased and are going to increase the appropriations for rail, road and transport. We have shown that by having a historically strong increase, and it is now being built roads across the country at a pace we have barely seen the husband do. Point 1: This is not about whether you are for or against roads. This rule is for road and track, and this is followed up in concrete action. Paragraph 2: It has always been this way – I think it is right – that there has been a distinction between what is financed as a business operation in a market and what is financed as a budget appropriation. It can be good for both, but it has different effects on the economy. So there's a difference between that and that. Avinor, who makes investments and receives income through landing charges and aerodrome charges. They have their own earnings and are self-financed without the need for government budget appropriations. Similarly, it is for Statkraft. They have income from selling electricity, they get money in, and then they pay their investment projects that way. It's business, it's yielding, and it has a completely different effect on the economy than the good purposes we grant over the state budget. So when it comes to those we grant over the state budget, we're concerned with the total use of money, because it's about how our businesses are doing, our dollar rate, and many other important things. Thirdly, we take into account, for example: how much money we spend on oil platforms. The oil platforms are also self-financing; it is invested, so you sell oil, and then you get money to pay interest and instalments. The government budget is not allocated money for something that does not give a return, but we take it into account. That's the whole point. When we first see how much money is invested in oil, in housing and in private business buildings, we do something about financial policy after that. That's what's called countercyclical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e383	That's exactly what I expected. That's why it's okay to have done their homework. In 2003, Avinor received 7.3 billion. oil crowns outside the State budget. No dividends have been paid in the vicinity of this return. It has come about. 1.4 B.C.E. kr in dividends from this company, and there is a rather poor return on such a large equity injection. The difference between building roads and airports is not that airports are profitable and roads are unprofitable. The difference is the form of the company. It has been decided politically to have a form of company in the field of aerodromes, operated by a company that receives all the revenue from air passengers, while in the case of roads, all the revenue from the car lists goes in the form of taxes and taxes – I remember that they pay 60 billion. kr per year - right in the treasury. Had it been a road company, it would have had a much better economy than Avinor has, but one has chosen to do it another way, and then it's about political will. The Progress Party is committed to managing the oil wealth in the best possible way where it is not required to pay $9.9 billion. NOK for a road that costs $4.8 billion. to build. That's why I challenge the Prime Minister again: Do you want to consider having a corporate structure for the road like the one you have for the airports?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e394	It's corporate structures too – nothing is quite similar, nothing is completely copyable. We had a discussion earlier today about toll companies. It is the corporate structure of the road, often owned by the government, that is financed by loans, but that is also financed in a market – or is self-financing – by having income from bommers. That's what's the difference. What we grant ourselves with goods needs to be handled differently from what is self-financing — either through bombing revenue or through market revenue. So these are incomes that come to the projects. A long debate can be continued on budgetary techniques, but it is essential that it is about policy. The whole basis for the Progress Party to do this is that they want to increase the overall use of money in society – building more of both one and the other. Then what I'm saying is that it's the total use of money that determines how it goes about interest and interest rates – and the industry. I'm concerned that it's going to be all right, because we're going to have safe and profitable businesses in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e401	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e404	Clearly, increasing overall use of money is also in the interests of the government; they only choose another form of budgetary policy. I heard Finance Minister Johnsen say in a debate yesterday that using so-called under-stretch money is something quite different than using tax money or oil money. Then I would very much like the Prime Minister's view of what the under-stretch money is. For it is also a budgetary bridging method, which is about leading, for example. equity into a company one year – and then it comes on the outside of the rule of action – because the year after that, the exact same money was recovered from the exact same company, in the form of dividends. Then there is money – which is financed from the State budget – for a number of purposes that the government believes are necessary. If the Prime Minister can explain to me why this is not tricking with numbers, is not budgeting and is not about finding an alternative way to add more money to the state budget, I would like to hear that explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e409	I like the question of what under-stretch money is. This is especially interested – and we are both. Under-stretch money isn't the same thing as under-table money, it's something else. [[laughs in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e416	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e421	– although the question may sound a bit like this. Under-stretch money is what in everyday terms is a popular expression of investment that yields returns. I tried in my previous answer to say that although for example. research is very sensible, we're giving money to this over the line because there's a cost we're granting. But if we, for example, Puts money into Statkraft below the line, gives it returns and returns. Therefore, it is expenditureed differently. That's what's called asset reorientation or portfolio management. It's always been expenditure like this. I think it's wise to do it that way. It is a clean and integrated way of spending expenditure. But the whole point [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e430	Calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e435	The President regrets the need to inform that, in terms of speaking time, everything should be across the line and within the framework. Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e441	Roads are being built all over the country, says Stoltenberg. That's true in itself, but most of them are financed by loans. I got an example of almost 90 pst earlier today. loan financing. And then the question is one comes back to now – via Solvik-Olsen: When it comes to project funding, project budgeting, what does the government really mean? What does Stoltenberg mean? When we look at the Gardermo development, which had a starting time and a finish time, a framework for the whole project, where we also gave opportunities for corporate formation, debt financing and maintenance follow-up, this is at least what everyone else has imagined project financing. We therefore note considerable disagreement between the government of Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party, since the Workers' Party's female speakers have had a completely different view of this – in the evening post as late as two days ago. What are we going to believe about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e448	You have to listen and read government documents, where these things are described in a thorough and good way. It is in line with what has been adopted at the national meetings of the Workers' Party, what the Workers' Party's spokesmen have said. There are many ways to fund things. Tolls can be financed; loans can be financed; budgets can be financed; tolls can be financed in different ways. But the crucial thing is that it has to be paid – before or later it has to be paid. If you're willing to grant more, you can pay more. What I am for is to grant more, so that we can pay for more way. I have therefore agreed that, within the framework of responsibility, we should give a great deal of time to road and rail. We'll do that, and we'll do that even more. What the Right really means is very confusing. The right is for toll projects. These necessarily need to be financed on a loan unless they have so much equity that they can finance it on an equity basis. If the state is going to pay this, we don't need the toll projects at all. Here, the Right Party and the Labour Party have agreed that we should pay a lot on the State budget. And then there's the toll.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e461	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e464	There was a lot of talk about the new Progress Party and the old Advance Party. I understand that Stoltenberg had more sense of the old. In Monday's Evening Post, there's a little talk about maybe the new Workers' Party. I quote: ‘The working party considers that public development companies should raise loans in order to ensure and speed up road and rail development.’ This is what Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, the Workers' Party, said, Vice-Chair of the Transport Committee. This is a little bit of a new working party, I feel. These are many people here in Stortinget and many in the Workers' Party who have taken up. Then the Prime Minister comes here today and – I feel – gives a presentation of the old Workers' Party again. So I'd like to be confirmed: is this just something that is loose thoughts, that we can put a line over – and is this the old Workers' Party we see in the policy on social relations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e480	My point of pointing to the old Progress Party was that they had a rhetoric where they were completely open about the fact that it was about spending a lot more money. It's an honest discussion whether it's fair or not. Now you're less open about this, spending just as much money irresponsible, but trying to hide it in other ways of spending it. There will be no less use of money to spend it differently. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is to be recognized. We are to pay things and finance things in a tidy way within the state budget. We have e.g. – it’s nice not to have come up with – debt financing within hospitals, but it’s spent across the line. So it's part of the budget indicators and is spent honestly as an oil money usage, even if it solves a liquidity problem for health businesses. What really matters here is how to include this money in the budget. We have taken it – including government hospital loans – within the budget, as expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e489	The Old Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e494	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e497	I'm going to talk about another kind of communication, between the country's knowledge minister and students in Norwegian private schools. About 3 pst. by Norwegian primary school children today attend private schools. Here we find children with as diverse a background as those who go to public school. But if you are to believe Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen, these are the kids who grow up without social antennas, without empathy, and who live their isolated lives almost on the outside of society. Yes, so full of contempt is the minister of knowledge for parents of children who choose anything other than the public school, that she healthyly claims that the opening up of the rose train last year would be different if we had had more private schools. The Minister of Knowledge thus insinuates that the social community is weakened and threatened by private schools and that private school students are a threat to the Norwegian Community feeling. Private schools are short and well a threat to the public school as well, according to SV's former leader. It is a well-known fact that the Prime Minister's parents belong to the small minority who chose something different from the public school, and that the Prime Minister himself has been a student at a stone school here in the city. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: Does he feel at all again in the threat picture of private schools that Kristin Halvorsen, the country's minister of knowledge, has drawn? What does the Prime Minister think of him, as a private school student, as less empathetic, less socially concerned and as a danger to the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e506	That was an interesting question. First of all, I know that Kristin Halvorsen is very concerned about stressing that that's not what she means. [[Laughter]] Of course, she does not believe that if you have attended a school that is not public, or went to a private school, you cannot, for example, attend. engage in society or show empathy. I think she's sometimes thought that I've lacked empathy for what she's brought up, but I don't think she thinks it's because of Steinerschole, I think she thinks it's more because of LO school, Sørmarka or something else. But that's another thing. The crucial thing is that from the Labour Party and Government we have always been concerned with the following fundamental distinction: there is a difference between having Steiner Schools, Montessori Schools or other schools as a complement to the public common school. Even in Einar Gerhardsen’s time, you allowed the type of private supplements – that’s good. What we have warned against is a comprehensive privatisation and commercialisation of the school. We've seen that in other countries, we've seen that it easily leads to greater social differences. Some students and groups are attracted to some schools, others to others, and we get not least major integration and inclusion problems. The extensive privatisation of our public general school is something quite different than continuing to accept it as a supplement that we have had all year round, which both Kristin Halvorsen and I warn against. That was an important reason why we changed the private school law after we won the election in 2005, and did so together with the Christian People's Party, so that we just preserved the diversity of educational and religious alternatives, but put an end to the commercialisation and privatisation of the school. Besides, Steiner School is an excellent school, for which I have a lot to thank.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e517	Less than 3 pst. by Norwegian students go to private schools. The previous government left no private school law that would have meant the total release and commercialisation of private schools. But I am concerned that the country's Minister of Knowledge, who is also the country's Anti-Mobbing Minister, should be a minister to stand up to defend tolerance and inclusion – Norwegian values we are all concerned with. We have to be an inclusive society, we have to respect that we make different choices, that we are different, and that it is an important feature of Norwegian society. I also note that despite the harsh words that fell from the Minister of Knowledge, there has been no public regret. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a advisable behaviour or behaviour by the country's Minister of Knowledge, that in the way she has done, she has stamped the country's students who go to private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e524	I tried to answer it in my previous answer. Kristin Halvorsen himself has stressed that of course she does not believe that going to a private school is something that makes you a human being without empathy, feelings or ability to be part of a community. I said that, and I'd like to repeat that now. But it is still the case that the law to which the previous government had provided, and as we changed, had easily involved a significant privatisation of Norwegian school, even where commercial interests were allowed to own school. I think that even if you tried to have yield limits, it's a little naive to think that when commercial interests invest in Norwegian schools, they will make it of – what to say – love for Norwegian students. It is clear that this was also about the return on invested money. Other countries have tried the same; they have significantly worse results — at least many of them —. Sweden is an example of a country with poor school development, including the United Kingdom. at the same time that they have privatised the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e532	There will be three follow-up questions – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e535	I note that the Prime Minister will give the Minister of Knowledge a great deal of will in the private schools. Then I think he has to take a look at the SV's websites. But I'm going to grab hold of another thing. The Prime Minister and we are all concerned that the school we have should provide the best basis for the children to deal with what is ahead of them. Then it's a little suspicious, I think, that the pedagogy we've chosen as the best for our children in public school can't be the basis for starting a private offer, but it must be one of the good, old pedagogy solutions or religion. Sees the Prime Minister that it may also be right in private schools for students to open up new approaches and focus areas as a basis for establishing new services tailored to today’s challenges and needs, such as: Real science, which is one of the basic skills in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e544	We believe that the law we have today provides both the opportunity for diversity and the development of new teaching methods in public schools. I think there is more diversity there now than it has been in many years, with the development of new teaching methods and new teaching methods. In addition, we believe that the law we have for private schools, which provides the basis for allowing them to operate if they are operated on a specific basis — pedagogical or religious — also contributes to this diversity. What we're afraid of is a development where we get extensive privatisation of the common school, where we get a development like the one we've seen in Sweden, where we've had a lot of the same debate, and it's been difficult to interpret all the research results unambiguously. But at least it's been a coincidence that they've gotten more social distinctions in school. In fact, they have fallen on the PISA measurements, while at the same time having had a large degree of privatisation of the school. That's what we're afraid of, and that's why we're holding back a general release and privatisation, and I'm glad we've reached an agreement with the Christian People's Party on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e553	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e556	State Council Halvorsen is not the only one who has come up with inaccuracies about private schools. Right now the Prime Minister concluded with enough inaccuracy. At a press conference on 18 August 2009, where the Prime Minister himself was present, the Council of State Huitfeldt made the following claim: ‘Country with many private schools has a lower level of knowledge than Norway.’ This claim has been verified by the Official Journal of Bergen, and it appears among other things. that the Netherlands, which is the country in the OECD area with the highest proportion of private school students, has seven out of ten students — ten times as many as in Norway — far more students than Norway at the two highest reading and calculation levels, and, as the Prime Minister was presumptuously concerned about, far fewer students at the lowest levels. Does the Prime Minister think there is room for improvement in the Council's rhetoric about private schools? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e570	I think there's room for improvement in Norwegian school, both what we do in public general school, which is the largest, and what we do in private – that's a lot. But the important thing is better teachers, better training of teachers and better continuing training of teachers. The positive now is that we've had a huge increase in the number of people who want to be teachers. It strengthens the quality, it raises the status of the teaching profession, and there is another reason why Norway has now improved its international comparisons in terms of quality in school. Knowledge and quality in school are what I am concerned about. There we can get better. We see developments moving in the right direction, while some countries that have started more privately have seen a negative trend. Then there are major differences between countries and therefore complicated comparisons. But we see, for example, that Finland, which is cutting best, has virtually no private entry in its school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e577	Dagrun Eriksen – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e580	It's true, as the Prime Minister says, that this was one of my few fries that was honoured by this government. We have a deal in private school. I must say that I also reacted to the knowledgelessness of the Minister of Knowledge, whether she has been interpreted too strictly. It might show you that you don't fully understand the diversity we've actually facilitated. An example is St. Sunniva school here in the city. 60 pst. of parents come from another country and there are 40 nationalities represented. It represents diversity, and it represents integration in a very good way. If we are to manage to preserve this diversity and the alternative schools that the government and the Christian People's Party have agreed to last, and to ensure that we do not get commercial players in, we need a new funding system for the existing schools. Will the Prime Minister look at that challenge and give some positive answers, so we keep the diversity we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e589	I'm always a little careful about taking things on the kick in a problem I don't know, so I don't know what kind of processes it is about financing private schools. But to look at it in the sense, see if I'm going to look at it, I'm always going to do it, and then I'm going to come back to if I've seen, and what I've seen. [[Laughter]] However, it is important that it is a proper financing mechanism. It's actually something we've been discussing with the Christian People's Party. Otherwise I am a little disappointed that the representative Eriksen has not registered that we have met many more fries – the private school law was part of it, the elder settlement was part of it. I believe that the Christian People's Party can be very proud that they helped to establish a pension settlement. Perhaps the most important of all is the large state-church agreement, which has spanned two major periods. It has been one of the most important things of the Christian People's Party, in which the Christian People's Party has played a crucial role. There I believe we had a good process between the Christian People's Party and the government. So this is not the only case where we have had good processes, but it was important that we agreed on the private school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e596	So the oral question procedure is over, and we are going to go to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e608	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who is responsible. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, this issue is being relocated and answered to question 16, i.e.: at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 3, from the representative of Torgeir Tåldal to the Minister for Justice and Security, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Food and Trade, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative of Øyvind Halleraker to the Minister for Transport, is answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Question 12, from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister for Health and Welfare, is taken up by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e625	Question 1, as adopted, will be answered to Question 16, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e632	I would like to address a question to the Minister for the Environment: ‘Refer to questions and answers to written question No. 1 319 for 2011-2012. The Council of State says in its reply that he ‘does not intend to have private consultants take over this exercise of authority’. There was no such suggestion in the question either. The mix of roles referred to by the issue is rather suitable for undermining the role of authority. Does not the Council of State not see that it is very unfortunate that the county council brings itself through consular talks into a situation where many say that they are given responsibility, and would it not be better for the exercise of authority to separate roles?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e646	I have in question No. 1319 from Stortinget replied to what I assumed that the representative asked Gundersen, namely if I would do anything to avoid the character of the representative as a role mix. My answer to that was that I don't think of it as a mix of roles, and therefore I have no intention of doing anything else. The county has been delegated authority after the cultural heritage. That includes, inter alia: to find out whether a notified action will conflict with automatically saved cultural memory. In this case, the county had a view of the forested road and had not uncovered cultural memory that came into conflict with the proposed measure. It's not a consultant, it's the exercise of administrative responsibilities after culture memories. So I'll just have to comment briefly on the fact. I have been informed that this measure was not built in accordance with the permission given. Because of this, a peaceful cultural memory was destroyed. That the county council as responsible authority is the one that reports violations of cultural heritage, I also see as a completely natural part of the role he has.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e657	I thank you for your answer. I am a little disappointed in myself, as it is clear that it is perceived as a consulate summit when you charge for the assignment. I do not dispute that they have a responsibility to figure out, map and that kind of thing, but here they actually took payment from the contracting entity to find out if there were cultural memories in the line to be used. I think everyone will see it as a consul summit when you send the bill for the assignment. In fact, I think we should make a very clear distinction. That's the one. The second is that I believe that once such matters arise, it would also be useful for the exercise of authority if you had a stand-alone and independent apparatus out there that could assist the landowner in the matter, for now it turns out that it is difficult to find experts who are not dependent on the state. So I'm going to ask the government council to reconsider just this and see if it's right to be able to bill for assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e666	I believe that the representative has to misunderstand what a consulate summary is. It's not like everything that costs money in society is a consul summit. It is relatively common in a wide range of society that a person has a fee or other payment scheme for services provided by the public. It also applies in this area. If a major measure is to be implemented, we have a system in place where policymakers themselves need to finance studies on whether there is cultural memory there. This does not apply to minor measures, e.g.: whether the representative or I would build on the house on our site or something in that direction, but it applies to larger measures. So it's not a consul summit, it's just a payment that's made to action holders to get the county council to carry out the administrative mission he's charged by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e671	Then I just noticed that we disagree completely in this area, and I am not persecuting it any more. But I think, as I said, that the exercise of authority had served to clean up roles. But I want to pursue a slightly different case, which came up in the spontaneous questionnaire last week. There is an abundance of hunting pits and coal pits around Norwegian forests. Obviously, these are interesting cultural-historical monuments for some things. The idea that came up was to pick out some signalling systems that actually showed what was going on – where you could see indications of what was going on – and leave them with a stronger protection, so that you could also present it to people, and rather let go a little more of all the pits that are around in Norway, because they seem really just like holes in the ground. There is a small call for the Council of State to address the whole issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e678	I take the invitation with me. Among other things, we need to: worked with a cultural memory message, which is going to be submitted to next year, so I'm going to do it here from question time. Just to round off the first piece: what is important is that we are at least some of the people that the responsibility of Stortinget according to the law has imposed on the county council must be managed by the county council. So you can have a different view of it. One might think it should be put away to private. Maybe it's Right's meaning, what do I know! Or one might think that one should abolish the system of payment for this, so that it will increase the public expenditure – that may be. I don't know what's Right's view here, but now we have at least this system, which is attached by the Storting. So it's not a consul summit, but it's management. I also think it is worth noting that what caused the case to be reported in retrospect was that the builder did something different than what was requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e696	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e703	‘In a chronicle in the Evening Post on 12 February 2008, the then County of Sigbjørn Johnsen wrote that the Railway Agency should be transformed into a state-owned or wholly state-owned company. The aim was to strengthen the ability to build the railway. Johnsen used Avinor's organisation and role in aviation as an example. Avinor has been provided with oil money outside the State budget, can plan for the long term and can secure debt financing if necessary. Will Minister of Finance Johnsen take an initiative towards the Railway Agency in line with Governor Johnsen’s recommendation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e710	I must first be allowed to correct a manifest misunderstanding, and that is that Avinor does not get to transfer oil money from the state budget. Avinor is provided with equity in capital reclassification by the country. Over time, Stortinget has chosen to organise parts of state investment in infrastructure outside the State budget. It concerns aerodromes, the transmission system for power and parts of road investments, partly financed by tolls. A common feature of all these activities is that they are financed by user payments and not by government budget appropriations. Avinor’s activity is financed by airport charges, business activities at airports, e.g. tax-free sales. For rail there is a very limited potential for user financing. The State also subsidises the passenger traffic of the NSB. State resources are necessary for the realisation of railway projects. The conversion of the Railway Agency into publicly available companies would involve loans for infrastructure investments which would have to be served with future State budget appropriations. Such funding would be a circumvention of the rule of action and would charge future budgets. State appropriations for the railways should therefore continue to be budgeted for the State budget and prioritised within the framework of the rules of action. It lies in this that any initiative that the representative of Tybring-Gjedde asks about will not be taken by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e717	It was interesting to clarify this once and for all. I look forward to a campaign next year where this is going to be government policy. In that chronicle, the Minister of Finance said there was a shortage of 400 billion. kr for investments in the necessary infrastructure. It's used in 7 billion years. kr to this infrastructure, i.e. that it takes approx. 57 years to get there. In addition, there is a large backlog in the case of maintenance. It was 20. kr in 2008. I don't know what it is now, it's probably 30 billion. - What do I know? But there will be quite a few generations into the future, and then of course there will be new needs – in 60 years I think we have completely different needs. I guess the Council of State is satisfied with this pace. Maybe he's increasing the appropriations to $7.5 billion. – what do I know – or maybe 8 billion. and boasts a lot of it, but that's what the government's ambition is, while he wants to tax the cars through tolls. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e724	If I don't remember faults in the chronicle that is now mentioned, they were 400 billion. kr, which was mentioned, a reference to the need deemed necessary by the modes of transport. After this chronicle was under pressure, the government's proposal for a national transport plan came, where one proposes to increase the appropriations by about 100 billion. in addition to the framework of the previous transport plan. So this government is a government with great ambitions in the field of transportation. I refer to the change of words earlier today between the Prime Minister and various representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e729	The Minister of Finance, like the Prime Minister, is trying to stay away from what is actually appropriations for the State budget, and what is ‘under the line’, and that this money is creating different pressures in the economy. But the money creates exactly the same pressure in the economy, except that the first ones are budgeted over the line and the other ones are budgeted under the line. We might disagree about that, but I've also gone to economic school, so I actually know what's right about just how to finance and prioritise in the Norwegian economy. In the chronicle, the Minister of Finance also says: ‘The time is therefore overdue to reflect on society’s need for infrastructure investment.’ So the time is ripe to think new – not old-fashioned, as the Prime Minister said – but to think new, i.e. new organizations, other ways to do this. The Prime Minister canceled it. It also says: «the Member States will not be poorer but richer.» So it's going to be richer by building infrastructure, building socially profitable roads. Does Minister of Finance Johnsen agree with Governor Johnsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e744	I think we can quickly agree that social economic and economic investment is good for society. This applies either to transport investments that are profitable or, for example, to transport investments that are profitable. investment in education and the future labour force. It is important that a skeleton for it, and that is also an important purpose, among other things. by carrying out socio-economic analyses and calculations for the launch of large investment projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e753	‘In a chronicle in the Evening Post on 12 February 2008, the then County of Sigbjørn Johnsen wrote that the State Road Administration should be transformed into state enterprises or wholly state limited liability companies. The aim was to strengthen the possibility of building roads. Johnsen used Avinor's organisation and role in aviation as an example. Avinor has been provided with oil money outside the State budget, can plan for the long term and can secure debt financing if necessary. Will Minister of Finance Johnsen take an initiative against the State Road Administration in line with the recommendation of County Governor Johnsen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e760	I refer to the answer I gave to the previous question, from the representative Tybring-Gjedde. It's also interesting here to refer to what the Prime Minister said earlier today, that it's actually that in the road sector you have company formations. For example, in this town, a company has had and has a significant responsibility for the large infrastructure development that has taken place in the Oslo area. Mountain line AS is such a company. Infrastructure investments organised outside the State budget are not financed by government appropriations but by user payments. Compared to aerodromes and the transmission network for power purposes, the potential for user payments in road projects is in reality limited, and it will continue to be necessary to use State funds to implement road projects, i.e. there is a combination of appropriations across the line of the State budget and toll financing. State appropriations must therefore be made within the annual budgets and the framework laid down by the rules of action. Here one has to assess what ensures a balanced development of the Norwegian economy, both in the long and short term. At the same time, it also ensures a real priority between different objectives of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e769	I feel that the Minister of Finance is trying to get away from the question by referring to the formation of companies, among others. in Oslo. But that's not what County Johnsen says in his post. He says, ‘In addition, we believe that the Railway Agency and the State Road Service should be given greater freedom of action to perform their tasks, as is the case with Avinor for aviation and Entra for state buildings. It may be done by transforming these institutions into State undertakings or wholly owned State companies.’;» Then I refer to what the Progress Party proposed in the State budget. It says: ‘These members propose to establish the Riksvei SF for new national road investments and the Railway SF for new railway investments. These companies shall invest in infrastructure similar to the existing companies Avinor AS expanding aerodromes: [[...]] This is exactly what Countess Johnsen said. Is it that way to understand that County Johnsen, or the Minister of Finance, has changed his mind since he was County?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e784	I think it could be a pretty interesting exercise in many contexts to see what people have said before, and what they are saying now. My point is that today it is actually the case that in the road sector there are companies involved in road development, but the state contributions are over the state budget, and I think that is a good way to fund roads. At the same time, I would also like to remind you that one of the starting points for this now famous chronicle was that this was before the government put forward its proposal for a national transport plan, and it was also a contribution to increasing the allocation of transport investments in Norway. It happened through the plan that was put forward and that the government is now following up – to put it that way – to the point and the dot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e791	In the same article, Johnsen writes that there is no doubt that other countries we like to compare with, like Sweden and Switzerland, have solved these needs far better than we do: ‘Flanders Switzerland has built one of Europe’s best rail systems, and Sweden has six times more modern four-field motorways and eight times more double-track railways than we do.’ And I'm adding: no tolls. So the same article says: ‘According to NTP, it will require investments of 230 billion in order to extend the routes to good and traffic-proof standards. Why have we come into this situation?’ In the VG, Terje Moe Gustavsen, the road director, says that the fall in investment has risen to between 4 and 500 billion. kr under Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen. Can the Minister of Finance explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e812	The last number that the representative Svendsen now refers to, I don't think I can do well. But there is no doubt that there is a great need on both the road and rail sides for investment in the future. This is precisely why the government has stepped up its efforts and will continue to have great ambitions in this area in the future. It will not be possible to do this in a handshake — to use that expression — it requires scheduled work over time, and it also requires one to be willing to prioritize this above, for example. tax relief. Just as a little tip to the Progress Party, which is looking for free money to finance road and rail projects: refrain from large tax credits, you have initially billions of dollars in the alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e821	‘The government has two taps for the oil fund: one gives money to the government budget and one gives money for the so-called real estate relocation. The Government allows the use of oil money outside the limits of the action rule, for the construction and operation of aerodrome infrastructure, but excludes road and railway infrastructure from the same funding facility. Why is aerodrome infrastructure exempted from the action rule, while road and rail infrastructure is covered by the action rule?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e828	There is only one tap from the oil fund, or the state pension fund abroad, in the State budget. That's the line in the government budget that comes under a line called the oil-corrected surplus, or the deficit that it is now, and then there's a line below, transfer from the state pension fund abroad, corresponding to the oil-corrected deficit. It's the tap tap, and it's just one tap. The action rule implies that the withdrawal from the fund over time shall be equal to the expected real return from the fund capital, calculated at 4 pst. Together with other tax receipts that the State has and other income in the mainland economy, this is what sets the framework for the expenditure of the State budget. It is true that in some areas, the Storting decided to finance expenditure on State infrastructure outside the State budget. There are airports and the transmission system for power, and in addition we have toll financing on roads. A common feature of these schemes is that they are financed by user payments — in other words, it is a withdrawal of purchasing power to finance important projects rather than by budget appropriations. Many transport projects are also financed by general tax revenue, in the same way as expenditure on education, health and care and other good and priority purposes. However, in the same way as expenditure on education, health and care, government appropriations for railways and roads should – and should be seen – be reflected in the State budget. It makes it possible to prioritise expenditure on each other in the State budget. That's what politics is all about; it's about giving priority to different purposes. If you want and want something more than other things, it becomes a matter that you have to prioritize. There is no free money, either in the state budget or outside the state budget. That's what politics is all about. Finally, I would like to say that the economic problems we see in several countries show how important it is for one to keep order in the budget. Sound budgetary principles and an open and comprehensive budgetary process provide a good basis for us to have a good overview and order in the Norwegian economy in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e839	Yes, I also agree that politics is a priority. Then the Council of State agrees that his own government has prioritised errors, as we have had a severe downfall on, for example. railway investment for very many years – several decades. Several reports have supported the lack of investment and maintenance. In the same way that we all safely maintain our homes – taking care of the wealth you have – it is also important to keep track of the railway network and the roads in the country, as is the case, for example. did so with the Gardermoban and the Fly train, cancelling the debt of the Fly train, which was outside the rule of action. The question then is: what is the difference between the flight train and other trains?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e846	I think we can agree quite quickly, if we see transport policy in a long time horizon – the representative mentioned for decades, and in the span of the decades, there have been governments of different colors and with different support in Stortinget – that we may not have had a high enough priority for rail investment in Norway. This government has actually facilitated it, not least through the transport plan that is now there, to be rolled from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e851	I do not agree that the current government is investing in the railways. There are also several reports to show. There are not many days since I could read in several newspapers that this government is now proposing that over 30 local train stations be laid down – that is the opposite way. At the same time, several of us have probably discovered that trains have been set all the way back from the 1960s and 1970s on Norwegian rails. Furthermore, the World Economic Forum makes rankings about road and rail status. There's Norway in 84th place, I mean – between Indonesia and India. And in total, we're doing it a little bit better, with the 42th place, I think. It's our airports that save the total ranking. That's also our point. I hope that the Council of State will reconsider this and look into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e858	Now the railway is being built, and the railway is still to be built, in line with the plans of the government in the national transport plan. New trainsets from the NSB are on the rails and will come into operation, inter alia. on the path which the undersigned uses uniformly, i.e. the intercity triangle between Skien and Lillehammer. The NSB has invested in a significant renewal of the wagon material, which was necessary. This makes it possible for the NSB to finance initial investments, inter alia, in terms of the income flow of the company. new trainsets, which will be a lift for intercity traffic in the central eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e869	‘In a chronicle in the Evening Post on 12 February 2008, County of Sigbjørn Johnsen wrote that OPS projects provide expensive funding but that ‘many are repeated by faster and more efficient deployment’. This reflects the idea that the pace of development and organisation are important in ensuring good projects. In the Evening Item on 10 May 2012, it appears that unforeseeable funding provides additional costs in the billion class. Safe funding provides more way for the money. Will the Council of State ensure that projects under way are realised without delay?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e876	I agree that safe financing of road projects is important. It has been ensured through the budgetary system we have today, which facilitates the rational implementation of projects. Each year, the Stortinget adopts a number of major development projects which empower the responsible Ministry to conclude contracts obliging the State in future financial years. The government has also taken the initiative to protect specific transport projects by project funding them on its own budget lines. It gives both the State Road Service and the Railway Agency greater opportunity to see the development of entire sections in the context, and indeed to see the development of road and rail sections in the context in order to ensure the best possible and most efficient development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e883	Thanks for the answer. That specific projects get that protection is very pleasant. But can the Council of State guarantee that all projects under way can be completed without one having to take a break because there is a lack of money here and there? The reason for this is that Econ has carried out an analysis to which, as mentioned above, reference is made in the Evening Post. It is said that there is a danger that we will lose 1.4 billion dollars. a pause in road projects and other infrastructure projects, precisely because the funding does not come as evenly as one had hoped. That's something that County Sigbjørn Johnsen warned against, but that Finance Minister Sigbjørn Johnsen is obviously not as concerned about, when he constantly warns against financing things in a different way today. So this is a more expensive way to do it. County Johnsen had seen the light. It's a little strange that Minister of Finance Johnsen has come to a dark office. But he can see the light again in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e894	I see myself in the mirror every morning, and I recognize my face. That is an advantage in politics. With regard to what was just a point in that chronicle, namely that one should ensure the effective implementation of public investment, the Minister of Finance is perhaps one of the most concerned – getting the most out of the crowns, getting the best possible way, getting the best health, getting the most education possible for the crowns that we grant in the state budget. I can promise the representative of Solvik-Olsen that the Minister of Finance is very concerned about how society spends its money, but I am a strong supporter of making money use visible, not least on the state budget. That's why we're so strongly warning against finding all sorts of curve jumps to give the impression that there's free money for different good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e903	I just have to tell the finance minister that the Progress Party will also strongly warn against using crunches or trying to hide appropriations. But this is about how a build system, how a treats equal infrastructure approaches differently. Today, airport infrastructure is invested in and expanded through a state-owned company that has received oil money and also receives earmarked fees. However, roads should only be given priority within the State budget, without having a state company that receives earmarked tax revenue or receives equity. Both are in principle infrastructure projects, but in the case of one, there is a state-owned company that is organised flexibly, while the other must be given priority over everything else. Why is it that if you work at an airport, you should be able to get oil money outside the budget, but if you're going to lay asphalt, you have to get the oil money within the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e912	It's an expression called cutting rocks. Sometimes it's a pretty heavy exercise. I think it would be an advantage in this debate if we agreed on one important point: the State budget is being allocated oil money over the line, which we had a discussion about earlier today with the Prime Minister. Avinor receives equity through what is called asset repos, asset positions and loan transactions under the line. In addition, Avinor has large revenues that enable them to pay debts and operate loans through the revenues they have at airports. In this way, they also absorb purchasing power, which means that the total amount of money, to put it that way, is regulated by, among other things. user payment. It's important that we can put those premises at the bottom. So we can go on with a discussion about what kind of priorities we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e930	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e937	This question, from the representative Øyvind Halleraker to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e940	It was a pleasant exchange – if I am allowed to say so. ‘The Bergen city council wants to double the toll tariffs in the Bergen programme, but depends on Stortinget’s agreement. A slow procedure by the Ministry of Transport means that important transport measures that will improve the accessibility and urban environment in Bergen will be put on hold. Why does the Council of State take so long to deal with a normal toll request, and when will the government submit the toll application to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e949	I would like to point out that the matter has not yet been brought to the Ministry of Transport. The City Council in Bergen examined the application on 20 February and the county council on 13-14 February. of March. As in other toll cases, the department starts treatment after a recommendation from the Directorate of Roads. The case has not been clarified enough to allow the work on draft toll proposals to begin. Preparation of the proposition must include, inter alia: adapted to the quality assurance of the traffic base, a KS2 process. The draft toll proposal shall be submitted to the ministerial hearing and must have the government's agreement before the proposal can be promoted by the Stortinget. After the matter has arrived in the department, it usually takes a few months to promote it. Based on the status of the case, it cannot be said at this stage when the government will promote the matter for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e960	I thank you for your answer. I had probably hoped for a more offensive answer, since the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen chose to come and answer my question. I think it is alarming that they say that this has not yet come to the Ministry of Transport. No, that's probably so, but the State Road Service is the Ministry of Transport's subcommittee, and they do, as they know, rough work on such matters. I think it'll be a little too strange to apologize for saying that you don't have enough overview of this. These are well-known projects, which this council also knows very well. She has, in her time as town councillor in Bergen, been involved in pushing them forward, and I really hope that you add the broad side here now to get these out. It's about an extension of the Urban Railway, it's about the Ringveg West, it's about the Skansen Tunnel – and there's a lot of important programming projects that need to be developed. And I repeat the question, are we getting a proposition about this this fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e967	As the representative of Halleraker, I am very concerned that this should be landed in a good way. I also understand that the Minister for Transport is very concerned about the success of the construction of the Urban Railway in Bergen. I think it's interesting to get the answer to this particular question, because I'm concerned that this is going to be a good progress. I also think it is very positive that the city council and county council have worked on their issues. Then it's just as full that when you have a trial and a trial process, you have to follow it. But I have no idea that this should remain in peace and quiet; it should be promoted as soon as possible. Then I also understand that even if it's funding, it has to be through a KS2. That process shall also be carried out. Then there'll be full pressure to get this up to the Biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e974	I thank you again for the answer and I guess I have a little straw straw here. But I think it is important that both this Council of State and the Minister of Transport realize that the municipality of Bergen cannot go further in planning these measures without this being approved funded by this toll request and this tariff, which must go up in Stortinget. That's what's the jumping point. By postponing this now, you risk putting the whole process of the development of the projects on hold, and that's a very unfortunate thing. I am aware that there is a loan authority in a matter we got to Stortinget recently, but it does not change the responsibility and role of Bergen and the company in getting these projects out in time. We have to get this out by 1 January 2013, and I ask again for confirmation that we can get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e981	As far as I am aware, yesterday there was an overall proposition that deals with this very thing with borrowing for the toll company, and I have the absolute impression that the Minister of Transport will have a high pressure to bring this matter forward, in line with Halleraker's wishes. I can assure you that from my seat in the government I will do my best to ensure that it comes out without undue delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e991	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Many drug addicts have a traumatic history of growth. They need a comprehensive and long-term treatment system that can cope with both dependence and human dependence. This requires a scheme in which the sick person needs to be associated with stable adults and long-term people with relational skills. This group is not high enough on the agenda. This is at the heart of a debate on the Minister of Health in Dagbladet on 25 February this year. How will this group be dealt with in government policy in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1000	The representative, Bavøy, takes up something that's important. For some, drug use has been backgroundd in bad conditions, in growing-up conditions or in mental illness. Therefore, we need to build comprehensive treatment courses that look at the whole person, who not only treats drug problems but also looks after and treats underlying causes. Racism addicts who have been subjected to violence and abuse in adulthood are a particularly vulnerable group. Shame and stigma may make it difficult to seek help. For this reason, they need extensive treatment, care and follow-up over a long period of time. I can mention the trust trial as a measure that may be relevant to this group. The government has granted 23 million annually. kr to the experiment, which has produced good results. We'll see how this work can be continued. As you know, I will also very soon present a big message about drug policy. The communication will address drug policy at large and will present the government’s objectives for drug policy in terms of both alcohol, drugs and doping. Early intervention and prevention will be an important part of the overall message. The message will clarify the interaction reform in the drug field. It will provide a more comprehensive overview of how to organise the future services of drug addicts. Drug addicts with traumatic experiences may need the help of several parts of the auxiliaries, and therefore good interaction will be essential for this group of patients to receive the assistance they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1011	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that the Council of State is also concerned about this. The book The Man Behind the Russ, which came back for a while, was about the Self-Collective, which ran for 19 years. They wound up in the year 2000. They had some research related to the institution. It was very exciting. There they actually found that there were great traumas in addition to the rush. Someone said it this way: we're rushing because we can't live with the reality and the dreams we have. Over 70 pst. had other addicts in the family, and over 60 pst. had been subjected to sexual assault. On average, these young people in the Self-Collective received five years’ follow-up, not necessarily accommodation. Most were no more than one year in the institution, but they could come back. They got treatment. So my question is, would it be possible to imagine that you get longer treatment times for more people? The trend is now that you're going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1020	We just have to admit that the whole community has a lot more attention on the background of those addicts than just on the drug problem. Many measures have been established in recent years that are important in this context. I could mention having a coordinator — some municipalities have a drug coordinator — to set up an individual plan to look at the types of measures it would be right to put in place in relation to the individual user and patient, and also to look at other types of offers. Having stable follow-up over a long period of time I believe very much in – also in a combination of maybe the first stay at the institution is not as long as it may have been traditionally. But some people also need a very long time. I've seen users who've been there for three consecutive years. Some will need it, others will profit better on a more outpatient follow-up. I think we need a system to take care of both.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1027	Thank you for that. I'm very pleased that the Council of State so clearly expresses understanding that someone will need a long time. I fully agree with what the Council of State says. Others will be able to cope with more outpatient follow-up. My point is that many of these that are so traumatized actually take a long time, because it's maybe the traumas they need treatment for -- the rush is in a way that makes them choke the dreams they have in order to survive. In these days, one of the institutions that is just working with youth addiction and mental disorders, namely Nybøle, has not been allowed to continue the agreement with Health South-East, so they have to go down. There won't be fewer places, but there will be more short-term places. This is an institution where you can stay for a relatively long time — for up to one year. So I'm worried that with what we call double diagnosis, they lose multiple places. The state councils also know very well about TEDD, which was closed recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1036	It is important to stress that actions that are good and that are well-managed by the individual user are not to be liquidated if they are not replaced by other types of measures. So sometimes there is some reorganization of the measures, and then there might be a lot of opinions about it. But here it is important to be able to have more thoughts in your head than to have some measures where you can stay for a long time, and other measures that are perhaps more a combination of a long stay and an outpatient follow-up. The representative Davøy even mentioned five years of follow-up, which will certainly be important for some. But here we're individual, and the offers you get the best benefit from are also individually adapted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1047	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The Council of State replied to written question No. 1306 for 2011–2012, inter alia that the Council of State will ‘follow this up in order to ensure that regional health establishments take the necessary measures to ensure compliance, including ensuring that staff are trained and corrective action is taken in the event of non-compliance’. What measures will the Council of State take to ensure that waiting lists are not tampered with and to ensure that patients receive the treatment they require?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1056	As I underlined in the answer to written question No. 1306 from the representative Borghild Tenden, health professionals have the responsibility – on their own initiative – to correct their own practices if they have evolved to become illegal. In order to ensure greater attention to patient administration, I have requested in business meetings with regional health businesses that healthcare businesses have methods to test and monitor any failure in patient administrative work, so that action is taken quickly. I have also requested health care companies to follow up the work on quality assurance of patient administration procedures through organisational and competence development. Employees shall be guaranteed better training in the patient administration systems. An important measure is that the Ministry has established a regulation, which has a very long name and is called the Health Information Safety Regulation, requiring personnel to be trained and informed about the use of the systems. The Ministry has closely followed up with the regional health establishments in order to ensure that health businesses comply with the regulation as soon as possible. This has been addressed in business meetings with regional health enterprises and has been the subject of follow-up meetings with the same enterprises. In addition to the measures I presented in my response to the representative Borghild Tenden, I will consider further measures at system level to better manage each patient. I will come back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way. In addition, I refer to the reply letter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on 10 May on the management of waiting lists and deadlines at Oslo University Hospital HF.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1071	I am sorry that I could not get a more specific answer here today. Patients initially have good rights in Norway. There is a broad consensus on the Patient Rights Act in this country, and that is good. But it doesn't help when the Patient Rights Act is broken. In the reply to the undersigned, the Council of State writes that waiting lists are being tricked, and that there are not entirely systems that detect faults in meeting between the institution and the patient. Will the Council of State follow up on the intentions contained in the legislation for patients to be informed of vacancies also by private institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1080	I have been concerned about this problem several times because there has been a problem issue in different forms that started already in 2010, quite early in the year, and then at Asker and Bærum, and looked at various measures to get to a system that prioritises the sick first. Of course, I am concerned that patients should be informed when there are hours off whether it is for surgery or another type of treatment. Of course, if there are private institutions that have contracts with public hospitals, they are part of the offer to be made. What is clear, at least, is that when hospitals see that hospital practice is broken, they have to follow it up. But in addition, as I also said in my answer, I want to look at the systemically and whether there has to be changes to the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1089	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm going to go on with information to the patient. We have a clinic, the Resource Clinic, a small health company that was established to accept psychiatric patients who did not get help from the public, and get time-limits. The size has decided that such enterprises should assist when the public health service is unable to do the job within the time limit. Everyone knows that there is a lack of capacity in both the psychiatry and the drug field, which was also a question in the previous round. The resource clinic has hardly received a single referral in recent years. This too is a result of road traffic. The public health service masks that they have no capacity. Why does the Council of State not open up so that private operators can contribute to relieving these queues?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1096	If there is a deadline breach and there are private clinics that have an agreement, it is of course that you should also be able to use them. If you are approaching deadlines, the hospital has an autonomous obligation to inform the patient about alternatives if it is unable to treat the patient itself. This requires further intensification and overall consideration of the legislation. That's why I'm saying that I'm also going to look at this more broadly to see if we can get better systems compared to the fact that the sickest patients, those who are right, who are experiencing a breach of the treatment deadline, get the help they're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1105	This question, from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1108	‘8. On May 2012, Today’s Business News reported a serious shortage of capacity in Norwegian pathology departments, which may provide waiting times of up to two months for the analysis of tissue samples that may contain cancer. Chief of Pathological Department at Oslo University Hospital, Inger Nina Farstad, says the situation is difficult ‘at almost all 17 pathological hospital wards’. According to Head of Division Harald Aarset at St. Olav's hospital, the system is at risk of collapse. How does the Council of State assess the situation and the prospects further, and what will it do to bring down the long waiting times rapidly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1115	Pathological studies are essential for proper diagnosis. On the basis of the diagnosis, follow-up and treatment are further determined, and early pathology response procedures are essential to reduce the investigation time for cancer patients and improve the quality of the investigation. At the same time, it is important to clarify that sufficient time is needed to ensure the necessary quality. In order to diagnose cancer correctly, a number of additional pathological studies are often required. Pathologists are part of multidisciplinary teams that assess current treatment options. Pathology competence and capacity are important in order to achieve the government's objective of starting cancer treatment within 20 days of referral. I have therefore been particularly aware of possible bottlenecks in the capacity of the pathological laboratories. In the 2012 mission paper, I set out the target requirements for implementing measures to reduce the bottlenecks in the course of cancer patients. I also asked regional health companies to report on pathology status and the recruitment situation for pathologists by the end of the 2nd century. They shall also review and assess the educational capacity in pathology. Health services must continuously assess whether competence, manning and technical solutions are consistent with the tasks and developments of different medical disciplines and whether workflows can be improved. Many hospitals with pathological departments have undergone their patient careers, and they have taken several measures. Regional enterprises are now reviewing the educational and recruitment situation in pathology. I would like to await the reports from there before assessing what further measures might be relevant in order to secure services in pathology.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1130	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We are in a situation where there will be more people who suspect cancer and who will have cancer in the years to come. This is due to both the development of disease and the demographic development of society. In the last five years, the number of pathology samples has increased significantly – 15 pst tissue samples, 20 pst cell samples. and the number of important special studies with a total of 75 pst. There's no reason this isn't going to increase further, while the number of pathologists has been stable. We are pleased that the Minister of Health has asked health businesses to reduce bottlenecks and, in particular, focus on pathology. I also hope that the Council of State will follow up if it becomes apparent that further action is needed. From both Oslo and Trondheim, proposals have been made to make use of the available private capacity and to see if other professional groups can relieve the pathologists. Will the Council of State look at that kind of proposal as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1137	I think that is also up to the hospitals to decide whether they want to use another type of capacity. Maybe it's wise. But as I understand it, the pathologists work with other colleagues on, for example, to solve cancer, they are more involved in a working community where they have to be around the same table, so it is not just to send out a sample and then wait for an answer. However, as I said, I have been concerned about the problem, because we have seen that pathology can be a bottleneck. We have to remove these bottlenecks – I was very clear on that a year ago, when we went out with these goals of passage times. Clearly, it is a high priority task to increase the capacity of pathology education and make it attractive enough, to get more people to enter the education and remove the bottlenecks that are, in particular, to improve cancer care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1142	I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1151	«For the autumn, the 8th stage of primary school is introduced as a known elective subject. Nevertheless, curricula and assessment criteria are not yet in place. When will the curricula and assessment criteria be clear, and when does the Council expect schools to have teacher resources planned, time planning and implementation of these subjects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1158	The introduction of the electoral profession has been a strong wish of both students and teachers, because very many students in high school have a desire to increase motivation by being able to choose a little more according to their own interests. It is implemented after very clear feedback from many high school students and a wide network of contacts that I have had, because Stortinget has dealt with the matter in January and agreed to this. So around all secondary schools in the whole country, there is a great expectation of how to get to this. There were 280 hearing opinions on how this was to be implemented, so here it's a very big commitment. The subjects of choice are multidisciplinary and, together, cover areas of all the ordinary subjects of the school. On Monday I sent out information to school owners and schools with youth, including me. describes the rating system with characters, supported by a majority of the Stortinget when the notification was addressed. The curricula were submitted to consultation before Christmas and there will be minor changes to those sent to the consultation when they are finally established. I'm inquired about that work right now. I know that the schools have begun to prepare and introduce electoral subjects a long time ago. I hear about professional teams working, I hear about networks for empowerment and several other good actions that show that planning is in full swing. In addition, schools, as in all disciplines, have the possibility of periodicising electives, i.e. that they do not have to be implemented in such a way that there are two or a half hours of schooling every week. You can put them together a little bit and implement them for more concentrated periods. For the electives, maybe a periodicization can be an advantage, because a lot of effort will benefit from having a little more hours to concentrate over time. The use of time for elective subjects is outlined in the professional and hourly distribution sent at the hearing of the Directorate of Education. In line with what was adopted in the 2012 budget, it was established that municipalities will be compensated for 19 new annual hours for each step and that the electoral professions will have a total framework of 57 hours per year. Local authorities have thus had reasonable time to develop their local vocational and hourly distributions for the coming school years. I now hope that everyone around in high school will seize the opportunity they have to fulfill some of the things that are the students' strongest desire to get up the motivation, namely to be able to follow their interests a little more than they have had the opportunity to do now, while starting to think about how to work more differently and in a practical way in every subject. For there are no students in Norwegian school who are as motivated as students at the 10th stage, and there is a need to do something about getting to a more motivating high school. That is why this is also linked to a strategy that I am now going to present to schools and municipalities in order to implement what the Stortinget decided in connection with the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1173	Yeah, it's urgent. Anyone who's been to a classroom knows how demanding it is to plan a day-to-day school out there. It's not just about the hour distribution, it's also about the competence of the individual teacher. What teachers are important to use in what subjects, what skills do you need, what material do you need, what spaces do you need, and what assessment criteria are you going to build up the subject around? All of this is thought to be terribly unclear in School-Norway. We are called down and get a lot of e-mails about teachers who think it is very frustrating not to know what they are going to do. I saw in the evening post on Monday that they had a headline that for the first time the Ministry of Knowledge will ensure that a big message will be followed up and implemented. I hope that was a misinterpretation and a little unexplained by a journalist, because I expect that the department is trying to follow up all the decisions made in Stortinget, and made in connection with the Storing Message. But here's a big gap between what's in the Evening Post and what's perceived in the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1178	That article describes the implementation strategy that we are in the process of developing, which means that, in cooperation with municipalities and schools, we will implement what is the main intention of the Youth Action Communication, namely to get the motivation up to date by working more practical, varied and motivating in all disciplines. It also includes a program for class management, reading, writing and billing, so that we can actually get it done. We're a lot closer to School Norway than anything else. To the representative, Trine Skei Grande, I would like to say: there are many expectant students around. There's always an opportunity to say that something has come too late, or that it's difficult, or that it's not all in place. This peer-to-peer communication has been known for high school for a very long time. The survey examined it in January and made decisions in this regard, the curriculum has been under preparation and at the hearing, and we are putting the last hand on the work now. I have a very strong wish that both Trine Skei Grande and the high schools should use the possibilities this gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1187	I don't think a minister of knowledge should have such an arrogant tone towards teachers, teachers who think it's hard to implement things when you don't even know what criteria to assess a subject after in May. I don't think you should be hounding about that. I actually think you're going to take it seriously and say you're going to work on it, because this has been an important area for this whole hall. This has been something you have wanted to implement for a long time. Some of us want, for example. giving schools more power to create this sea – giving them the opportunity to develop courses in their own schools. If they had that opportunity, they could start working right away, but now they're sitting waiting for these final clarifications. There's a frustration out there, and that frustration should be taken seriously and not say that you're trying to sabotage subjects. I think there are a lot of teachers who are very happy to do this, but who think that all those parts of these subjects are still unsolved, which makes them frustrated. They contact representatives of big business to pick it up and get a move on, because they want to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1194	I am neither arrogant nor ignorant of the frustration in School-Norway – on the contrary. However, we have a common challenge, we who are concerned with the motivation of high school students: The size of the population has made decisions in connection with a big message – in January one joined it – and it is demanding to make curricula and make judgements in such a short time that it can be implemented from the autumn of 2012. But it has been known what the content of the big news, what the Storting has joined, the curriculums have been at the hearing — there will be no major changes in them — and it has been known which choice subject to be introduced. I'm aware that there may be a lot of demanding places, but there's a lot of opportunities here, and fortunately, there are a lot of people who are already doing very well. Then I think they should get a little encouragement – also from the representative Trine Skei Grande – to stand on and do this. The alternative would have been that we had to wait another year, and that would have led to a huge disappointment among very many high school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1205	‘The Ozeberg discovery is the world’s largest collection of three objects from the Viking Age. Thus, it is both an important national tax and an important European cultural memory, from a time that shaped what we know today. Both the University of Oslo, the owner of the Cultural History Museum, and the international expert report on the Osebergfunnet, state that the situation is critical and that cultural memories can be lost in the past. When the localisation debate is over, what will the Council of State do to ensure these important cultural memories for the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1212	In the last ten years, there has been a comprehensive assessment of alternative models and concepts for a new cultural historical museum at the University of Oslo, which includes the Viking ships. In 2009 a so-called KS1 study, Quality Assurance of Alternative Concepts was carried out in order to obtain a professional and economic assessment of the alternatives, where the quality assurances considered the establishment of the Cultural History Museum on Bygdøy and the rehabilitation of the Viking Ship House as the best solution. The Bearvika and Tullin onions options were ranked by Bygdøy. However, the Tora Aasland Council concluded that the risk of relocation was to be assessed by an independent international expert committee before any final conclusion on location and further work was made. The International Committee of Experts has concluded that a new museum facility on Bygdøy will be the best solution for the conservation, research and dissemination of Viking ships and their collections. We therefore look at other ways to secure the Viking ships and the vulnerable and iconic objects, and give them a safe future. As the sample points out, the preparation of a new museum facility on Bygdøy should be initiated and followed by the modernisation of the existing museum building and the long-term conservation of ships and their collection must be focused. It has been known for a long time that part of the collection is in poor condition, but recent research has shown that the items are breaking down faster and are in much worse condition than previously assumed. The University of Oslo, which owns the Viking ships and the collection, has therefore started a scan documentation of the objects – to document the objects with modern methods in the event of possible damage. The Ministry of Knowledge is in close dialogue with the University of Oslo and has allocated start-up funds to ensure that this work starts quickly. The further project shall visualize degradation processes in alum-conserved wood and evaluate methods of neutralisation of the tree to stop degradation. In view of this, treatment methods and development of new bioinspired preservatives shall be available. In this way, the project is aimed both at securing the objects as they are today, and at research that enables the museum to replace the alumni with other more durable preservatives. This is an extensive work, and today there is no expertise that has the final answer to how this should be done. The most important thing is to secure these cultural taxes for the future, and the Ministry of Knowledge, in cooperation with the University of Oslo, will continue to work to ensure the ships and objects in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1225	It is good that the Council of State is clearly familiar with the matter. From the Cultural History Museum, it is said – through Tønsberg’s Blade – that the ships are in a terrible challenging situation. They say that the content is not just fragile – it has gone into disintegration, and it is urgent to improve the conditions of the objects. Of 41 items, 15 are in poor or very poor form, and only three of them – fortunately, the Oseberg ship is one of them – are in nearly good condition. I am afraid that these items are not helped by good dialogue alone. I have the impression that the University of Oslo and the Museum of Cultural History believe that there needs to be more money on the table right away. As far as I could see in the revised national budget yesterday, it was not wanted to be fulfilled. Will the Council of State ensure that this process goes as fast as it actually needs to?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1236	To put it straight out, we have bigger problems than that. We have very fragile items – and it is not primarily the ships, but the wagons and the sleds and the other items found with the ships – because alum methods were used to preserve them when they were found 100 years ago. It turns out that they're smouldering to a great extent inside, and over the last few years, it's progressing faster than what you thought before. Our main problem is that we don't know exactly what methods are needed to secure these objects for the future. That's why we have to work for two tracks. We have to work to document what the objects are like. It does, in case of damage – and we have to expect that it can be damaged. The second, in cooperation with experts around the world, is to develop ways for us to manage to take care of these values for the future. The expert group has said that they are even more valuable than you thought, not just in Norwegian context, but in world context. These are international icons, so we have a very big responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1245	I'm glad of the answer. These are iconic objects from a time when Norwegian culture and Norwegian languages were spread in large parts of what is today the Western cultural sphere. They are some of the most important cultural memories and historical objects we have in Norway — and, to a large extent, at the top level in Europe as well. I'm aware that there are knowledge challenges. I just want to once again give the Council of State an opportunity to say that you understand this iconic value, and that from the government – and from the Stortingets – you do not put obstacles in the way that this can be done as quickly as possible. Tempo alone is not the solution here; we also have a knowledge challenge. Will the Council of State facilitate, along with the Storting, so that this can go as quickly as it can?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1254	Absolutely. We have a great responsibility to manage these values on behalf of future generations. What's the challenge here is that these are Viking taxes that were found over 100 years ago, and that were dug up and subjected to both preservation that we now know in retrospect was not so wise, and for oxygen and other challenges this type of wood tax has. I am very grateful that the Tora Aasland Council made sure that this group of experts was able to do so, and that they have provided such a clear recommendation and such a clear and honest review of the state of these icons and objects. But I'm also very aware that we now have a big challenge that we can't just get out of, because we need knowledge and expertise about what we're going to do. I'm in close contact with the University of Oslo and the Cultural History Museum to find out how to go further, and I'm going to follow that very closely. It's not every day that we have iconic taxes in international format that we're going to take care of for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1269	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Adapted training means that all children are entitled to a school that challenges and raises them knowledgeably. Parents with highly gifted children now experience that the law does not grant these children the same rights to adapted training, and have been told that the training law § 5-1 does not apply if the misalignment is a high skill. Is this a correct interpretation of § 5-1, and if not, what rule of law in the training law applies to these students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1278	Now we're talking about a group of students who are particularly talented. It's a discussion beyond the challenge we have of giving students who are good and who are ahead of their class, some extra challenges. These are students who have some special talents, and it's important that they, like all other students, meet challenges and have something to go after in school. This means that well-adapted training is absolutely necessary to achieve it. Students who have the prerequisites for learning faster and more than the average do not have the rights under the training law § 5-1 on special education. That provision establishes the rights of students who have difficulties in attending general training. But that doesn't mean that these students we're talking about don't have the right to adapted training, because they all have, especially gifted children. What is a major challenge is to ensure that you have work responsibilities, educational material, teaching skills, working methods, etc. which makes it possible to meet these children in the community of which they are part in the common school. Adapted training does not always involve individualisation of training, but it means that school managers and teachers must take into account specific assumptions, even when there are some who have very special skills in a field. Those students who do not meet challenges or have something to reach out for will not be able to use the potential they have. They can also often experience severe discouragement, or other types of challenges in their everyday school life, which we are going to take seriously. That's why I've been very concerned that students who have professional interests and abilities beyond what you can expect in a class should be able to move faster in the field than their classmates. For those with unique skills, this will be a challenge for schools, but it is important that it is organised so that they can also face professional challenges. These are students who are required to have adapted training. These are students who are entitled to the possibility of e.g.: to skip a class step, to go faster in some subjects, or to have alternative education in some subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1295	In this area, I think we just have to say that there's obviously a lot of broken ground out in school. Now we hear, for example. about a boy of ten years, he's probably in fourth grade, which in April this year was finished with the primary mathematics. The school probably knew he was about to finish, but they have no plan for what to do. Another example from Troms: A girl in 8th grade who is so good in language that she follows languages in high school has been absent from primary school while at the same time she has taken hours of secondary education and has come further in foreign language than you do in high school. So my challenge to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that there is a need to guide the school – maybe go some rounds to make some clarifications in the law to make the school out there safer on what kind of rights these students actually have – in how to deal with, and plan for, this type of student?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1304	I'm going to go through what's available from guidance material to the schools in this area, because I think many people are in doubt about how they're going to proceed, and how they can organize. I don't think §5-1 is the way to go, because it's the coin of students with special learning difficulties. Nor is it that there is some automation in the fact that there are happy solutions, even if one has received a single decision according to Section 5-1. On the contrary, many of them have the right to special education, who believe that they have some challenges there, including: with regard to the use of assistants. These students need other challenges than that. So I think it's important that we encourage other schools to be flexible, for example. secondary schools, or secondary schools in the case of high school, or universities and colleges, which may have both students and teachers who can contribute to providing challenges to those with very special skills in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1313	I am not looking for Section 5-1 to apply. I want to make it clear that this is a special student group that has clear rights in the Norwegian school system. The right has previously challenged the state council on this, and now we see it again: there is something in primary school and something in secondary school here, there are two different levels of government. In part, there's going to be a discussion about who's going to pay for this student. This problem has occurred several times. Now, when the Council of State is going to review and look at the kind of supervisors you have, will she at the same time ensure that you determine who has the financial responsibility, so that it will not be up to parents and students in the individual case to fight – and partly against – the system to figure out how to settle and pay for this type of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1320	It can certainly also be part of the challenge here. But I think the most important thing is that you see that all students have the right to adapted training – including those who have very special skills and interests in the field. We're now working on getting a better offer online, in mathematics, for example, so that high school students can go to higher education in mathematics, without having to move from high school to high school. This will also solve the whole cost challenge. I think by using online solutions, we can develop many more offers for students who need to get ahead faster than their classmates, and who need something extra to break on. So here I think we're going to try to think about solutions based on the fact that all students in Norwegian school are entitled to adapted training, and that everyone should have something to stretch after.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1331	Then I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘NOCUT has an important function ensuring quality of existing and new training provision. Long treatment periods have been taken up by many teams as a major challenge for those who want to launch new offers. Higher education has addressed this as a major challenge in the further development of student provision. Is the State Council satisfied with the situation, what time does the State Council consider acceptable, and what initiatives will the State Council take to ensure the prompt and good treatment of the NOKUT?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1340	The function of NOKUT is to ensure that the training provided in Norway is of high quality. This applies to both post-secondary and post-secondary education. NOCUT has established standards and requirements to ensure professional quality and follows established procedures for examining applications for accreditation of new study offers. The Ministry of Knowledge cannot, according to the law, review the professional assessments of NOKUT, which I have no desire to do either. It is a recognised international principle of quality assurance and accreditation that all established requirements must be documented and fulfilled before accreditation and final approval can be granted. This is to ensure that students get the quality they can expect — not to be entitled to. This principle is also followed in Norway. In other words, accreditation cannot be granted on the condition that things will be put in place later. Accreditation is given for the training offer as available at the time of recognition. There is a lot of work going on for applicants who want to start new studies. NOKUT operates with application deadlines for all applications except for applications for institution accreditation. This was introduced to streamline the application procedure for NOKUT and to ensure predictability for applicants. The specific objective is that all applications should be examined before the next deadline for application. The target was achieved in 2010, but in 2011 there is a negative trend due to increased workload. In the field of post-secondary education, many of the applications remain deficient, giving NOKUT considerable additional work to guide applicants. This is the responsibility of the institutions. At the same time, the number of applications for recognition of foreign education is increasing considerably, and the increase continues in 2012. Recognition of such training is a task assigned to NOKUT by law, regulation or administrative action. They themselves have no influence on the number of applications. Norway has international obligations here, and the labour market needs for skills and labour make this an area that NOCUT needs to give priority to. Something has been given a broader mandate and new tasks. NOKUT shall also during 2012 through an evaluation to see whether it meets the requirements of quality assurance bodies in the so-called European Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance adopted in the Bologna process. Overall, there is no doubt that because of increased activity on their responsibilities, NOKUT faces a number of demanding tasks, for which there must be appropriate solutions. Former state councillor Tora Aasland therefore announced in a written reply to the Stortinget last November that she would make a detailed assessment of the financial framework conditions for NOKUT. This is a work I follow up. It is necessary that we have a well-functioning supervisory body capable of carrying out all the tasks assigned to us. The Ministry of Knowledge is currently in dialogue with NOKUT on the capacity for both recognition, supervision and other tasks of importance for the quality of Norwegian higher education and vocational education — and for the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1357	State council itself mentions vocational education as one of those who now have a challenge. Vocational training should, of course, be able to offer new, up-to-date offers to a working life that is constantly changing and needs new. Exto Holding AS in Trondheim, who operates offshore training, has applied for the establishment of a technical vocational school offering aimed at this. They have received a reply from NOKUT: ‘NOCUT does not currently have the financial means to carry out an expert assessment of all the applications submitted by the deadline. This is due, inter alia, to: that far more applications were received than expected.’» And on the other hand, ‘The lack of resources means that we have to wait for the application referred to.’ This means, therefore, that applicants within an application deadline are not treated in relation to that deadline. Could it be a satisfactory way for NOKUT to work on?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1374	No, of course it is not, and NOKUT consists of highly competent and dedicated staff who are trying to ‘keep away’ because of an increasing interest in the processing of applications. We're in dialogue with them. Last night I had a meeting with them myself – a bit randomly placed in relation to this question-time question – because they have very big challenges: many and more foreign students who want to have accepted their education, many more colleges, challenges on the ICT page. They have a significant challenge at all, so we must now have close contact with them and work together on how we can manage to find good solutions so that they can carry out the work for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1379	The trade unions have written a letter to the ministry responding to this introduction of waiting lists. It is strange that NOKUT in the same e-mail to these from Trondheim says that they are ‘aimed at taking up further proceedings in the next round of applications, i.e. in the autumn of 2012’. This will mean that, from now on, the superiors will be dealt with in the next round, together with all the new applications. I guess the Council of State can't be satisfied with that. It's great that you're now evaluating, and that you're in dialogue. Now we were given some figures yesterday that were related to the budget, where one can solve acute problems. Does not the Council of State agree that this is an emergency situation, when new, relevant education services in Norway have to wait because NOCUT does not have enough money and resources to process the applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1386	It's an acute problem, but it's not an emergency situation, because over time they've had a challenge with many and more applications and big ones going on. What we have to do now is in close dialogue with NOCUT to find a solution where they have capacity, and where the priorities are in line with what the Storting wants, etc. So we have a challenge both to get out of proceedings in the short term and to find the level of how we should conduct quality assurance in this area and which is sustainable in the future. That's why I'm in dialogue with them. We're trying to find a short-term solution, but also long-term, sustainable solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1391	We go back to question 1, from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for the Environment. The question will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1398	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: «According to Sunnmørsposten, May 7th, the oil from a Russian trawler that had left at the dock in Hundeidvika in Sykkylven was leaking during the hurricane on Christmas 1st last year. The boat wreck is on the bottom approx. 30 meters from land and has been leaking oil for five months without any incident. The cyclone municipality and the Coast Guard now require that the boat be secured against further oil spills, and that it be removed. What will the Council of State do to make progress in the fight against further oil spills and the rapid removal of the wreckage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1407	The Russian trawler MV «Crasnosjes» sank at private berth in Hundeidvika in Sykkylven municipality on 25 December 2011 during the extreme weather in the district. The ship was docked for upgrading and sank with approx. 80,000 litres of diesel and approx. 4000 litres of lubricating oil. Immediately after the incident, local oil protection resources were deployed to deal with the pollution. On 26 December the Coast Guard Agency instructed the shipowner to take action to reduce the risk of contamination from remaining oil products in the hagarist. The shipowner hired local resources that carried out temporary close-up work. This work was completed on 30 December 2011. In cooperation with the municipality of Sykylven, the Swedish Coast Guard Authority has monitored the Hagarist in 2012 with regard to oil spills and the need for further action. On the basis of the leakages observed, a new oil removal and removal order for the sunken ship was sent to the Russian shipping company on 29 April. The owner of the ship is allowed until 1 May to submit a plan for their further handling. The coastal works are in dialogue with shipowners and insurance companies about the follow-up. I expect the dialogue to lead, and I would like to stress that it is the shipowners' duty to implement the necessary measures, including the removal of the wreck. In conclusion, I would like to point out that it follows from the pollution law that the responsible polluter is responsible for cleaning up afterwards. This is also reflected in the internationally recognised polluter pays principle — on which the pollution law is based. In cases of acute contamination, or danger thereof, the Coastal Plant will supervise the situation and, where appropriate, require the responsible person to take action. Public liability only takes place when the person responsible does not settle. In this way it is too early to conclude in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1420	The shipwreck, as I said, is near land, three metres below the surface of the water, on the distant sea, and to a great danger to ship traffic, while, after five months, it is still spilling oil, it is said. It is also claimed that there is a risk of leakage of the greenhouse gas freon. Several wrecks polluting the coast include the submarine outside Fedje in Hordaland, which has been promised to be removed by the government. It's still lying there and contaminating. The inhabitants of Sykylven are now afraid that this is another shipwreck that remains lying. Does the Council of State understand that they have this fear?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1429	The other wreck mentioned is very different from this. So here we have an owner, a clearly defined owner. We do not have that in the case of the submarine missile in the West. So once again, the owner, the shipowner, is responsible for this wreck. It's being monitored. The coastal works and the municipality follow closely, but there is no doubt that the responsibility lies with the owner of the wreck. Of course, we will follow up and stand firm on that. Therefore, in the situation we now have, it is premature to conclude with something other than that this is obvious to the owner’s responsibility. The responsible polluter shall act. We have both national and international rights to support ourselves there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1436	It was probably also claimed in the Sunnmørspost that the owner, owner, had no money, and that there were problems getting money. Obviously, it's a challenge. The rapporteur in Sykylven also said that the nightmare now is that the shipwreck will be lying down. Then I wonder where the responsibility is if the wreck is not removed by the owner. Can the Council of State now reassure the inhabitants of Hundeidvika and Sykylven that there will not be a new repetition, like the previously mentioned wreck – that it will remain lying and polluting without being cleaned up, if the owner does not take responsibility? And how quickly does the Council of State see that something like this might happen? It's very serious if the owner doesn't come in here and clean up – then it stays lying down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1443	As I said in my answer, the Coast Guard is in dialogue with both shipowners and insurance companies. We have two spaces to discuss with when it comes to the economic part. If there is a change in the status of the pollution, the municipality has an obligation to act. Then there is an event in a slightly different category that is so large that the municipality does not stretch to – and then of course we have a next step. We're not there today. As I said, we have dialogue with both shipowners and insurance companies and we strongly believe that they should take responsibility for this situation. It's their responsibility, and I'm going to be hard on that. But of course I also want to keep myself informed about the dialogue that the Swedish Coastal Agency has with both shipowners and insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1450	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-16.ana.ud2397e1463	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
