ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e73	Honourable co-representatives! Former S.V., Reidar T. Larsen, is dead, 88 years old. Reidar T. Larsen was born in 1923 at Lillehammer. He came early into politics and was a member of the Lillehammer City Council from 1945 to 1947. Throughout his life he stood at the barricades of social justice and respect for human dignity. He represented the Socialist electoral federation of Hedmark County in the period he sat on the Stortinget, from 1973 to 1977. He was the parliamentary leader from 1976 to 1977. Reidar T. Larsen was a member of the Industry Committee and played among others. a central role in the Alcan case in 1974, which dealt with the repurchasing of shares in Årdal and Sunndal Works. He was an alternate member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee and is the last member of the Communist Party of Norway to have been a magnificent representative. Larsen was very central to the communist movement, as editor of the freedom newspaper and as chairman of the NKP from 1965 to 1975. Stronger than most domestic politicians, he got to know the cold war on the body, as a comprehensive directory of the surveillance police testify. After the EC fight, he participated in the formation of Socialist Electoral Union – a collection of SF, NKP, no-activists from the Workers' Party and non-partisan socialists on the no-side. He broke with the NKP in 1975 when the party decided to stand outside the new party SV. From 1975 on, he was in SV's main board. After Stortinget, Larsen worked for a number of years as an information manager at the Consumer Ombudsman. He resigned in 1999 in protest against the SV's position on the NATO bombing in Yugoslavia. Reidar T. Larsen was a held politician. His opponents in politics were many, but he enjoyed respect in all political circles for his knowledge and factuality. He eventually became a concept of Norwegian politics. Said Reidar T., everyone knew who you meant. Reidar T. Larsen leaves many and good memories of a person who was ready to speak and had a great commitment. He was a brave man who stood openly and honestly for what he meant – and was respected for it. We thank Reidar T. Larsen and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e99	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Geir-Ketil Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Geir-Ketil Hansen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e121	It is good to have your own research and higher education minister in the hall. I hope we get it in the future as well. In our education policy, we have focused a lot on real-time education and ensuring that students and students at all levels choose real-life education, but we all know that it is important in any society to have a wide range of subjects. Today I want to talk about the importance of humanities. Every society needs new ideas and ideas, and without the humanities of our education system, society will not move forward. With regard to humanistic research, it is often the spirit of time that creates new technologies, new opportunities, new forms of life and new lives. Many of these subjects are key subjects for the development of society. If we look at that meaning, for example. philosophy has played a key role in the development of society, the development of democracy and the development of technology. In a globalized world that we live today, with many languages and with many different cultures, it is even more important to make sure that we have good humanities. In many of this debate, for example: The subject of history has been brought forward as one of the subjects that survives at a time when the humanities are deprived. But then we're talking about recent history. Older history is still struggling both with recruitment and with having good, wide-ranging research environments that are able to give us insight. It's also important. Norwegian humanities have contributed to great research efforts. We can mention the great new version of Ibsen's collective, which is part of a world heritage. In research, it can be seen as a very narrow field of expertise, but at the same time it is of general importance to all people and to all countries. Mediaviters and historians at the University of Oslo have been involved in the development of ‘apps’ that can be used in history and urban planning. We have Norwegian dictionary 2014, which has collected the entire Norwegian language usage in twelve volumes. Archaeologists at the University of Bergen have shown us how climate change affects the development of people from the ancient world to today. What we've seen through the media is that there's a critical situation at several universities with regard to many of the subjects I'm talking about here. In Trondheim they put down linguistics, CRL, linguistic communication, Italian, Japanese and Chinese. Philosophy now has two positions. In Oslo, HF had 360 annual scientific works in 2005. In 2016, it's estimated to be 297. Nordic languages have lost nine years of work in the last few years and now stand back with 2.5 jobs. These are languages that are our languages, and that are our responsibility to take care of. French as a trade has been halved since 2002. Many small trades are under national threat, such as: the debate that has taken place on whether all universities are now to take up the subject of theatre science. We need to understand the importance of the small subjects to our entire field of knowledge. The provision of sign language as a subject of our own is very important when we have decided in this Chamber that sign language should be an official language. Losing French, German and Italian means not only losing your skills in trades that are important to Norway, but also losing your whole field of expertise and understanding for example. French culture, French literature and all the various parts which the language is actually to be expressed. University funding was very much for trends among student schools, external partners and society in general. Trend changes are faster than the major changes to which universities are exposed are possible. In particular, humanities depend on increased basic appropriations and more resources for basic research, as proposed by the Left in its alternative budgets. There is little external funding for humanities research. That is why the subjects are very cyclical. Trends are reinforced by active promotion from universities and colleges, where some subjects are made sexy and other subjects not so important. We have a funding system that opens up this trend change. Today's funding, which has broad support in Stortinget, has worked for some time, and there is a need to revise and evaluate the funding and governance structure, so that we secure professional diversity in the future. This quality reform and funding have been jointly addressed by the size of the population. Nevertheless, it is important to consider whether there are adjustments that need to be made to ensure the breadth of the sector. The UH sector shall carry out more than mission research and scoreboard production. It shall also be reflected in the funding system. As Dean Trine Syvertsen of the University of Oslo, at the University of Oslo, will you have to look into whether it is necessary for the government to control more closely which national subjects we have to take care of. The debate on theatre science shows how necessary it is. The humanities faculties have a self-interest in and ownership of making themselves visible and relevant in the social debate – of course. But there are few universities and colleges that nominate humanities researchers at different prices. Religious historians, philosophers, cultural historians, for example, are important voices that can nuance and develop the societal debate. The humanities studies must have the opportunity to be relevant in the reality of the day, in line with others. So to a separate little part of this. The left shares the Council of State's commitment and intentions in getting more female professors at our universities. The reduction in new additions to humanities further slows this development. Professor Gerd Bjørhovde at UiT is also concerned that more women-dominated subjects are now being proposed, such as art criticism, linguistic communication at NTNU and theatre science at the University of Oslo. To sum up my challenge to the Council of State: Trends change rapidly. Do we have a funding system that takes into account that we maintain a professional breadth, and that the student trend suddenly changes? Several basic appropriations might have been the buffer that would have made sure that we had the professional width at the universities. We had a wave of employment especially within the humanities in the 1970s. Now they're about to be replaced. In several subjects, people don't come in as replacements, and we lose many of the important subjects that we need to have to call ourselves a cultural nation. The question is: shall all responsibility lie at the place of study, or shall we actually have a national policy to discharge national responsibility for professional development and breadth?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e153	Everyone wants high quality education and research, robust and profiled institutions and professional environments and a rich and varied range of study services that respond to society’s needs for competence. The representative, Trine Skei Grande and I share the interest in the humanities, and I agree with most of the assessments made by the representative on the importance of this. Today we have a good professional offer in these disciplines – and we still need that. But is humanities under strong pressure? I will try to shed light on this issue with some overall figures and trends in research efforts and results in this field. From 1997 to 2009, investments in humanities research have been relatively stable at the top of 10 pst. of total operating expenditure for research at our universities and colleges. Compared to the other Nordic countries, Norway is the country which uses the highest percentage of total R & D investment in universities and higher education institutions at humanities. It's good that we're at the top of some of these statistics. Humanities have also gained their share of the large growth in R & D investment in the 2000s. In 2009, humanistic research was carried out for nearly 1.3 billion. kr, and externally funded research in humanities increased its share from 20 to 25 pst. through the 2000s. It shows that humanistic research is also relevant to external sources of funding. Research personnel in humanities have grown by over 20 pst. of 1997. Growth has mainly come in the form of recruitment positions, but this is true of most disciplines. If we take the results of the research and look at scientific publication, we see that the humanities faculties of our three largest universities claim well. Their share of institutions’ publications has increased steadily at all universities since the publication survey started in 2004 and varied in 2010 from 12 p.m. at NTNU to 23 p.m. at the University of Bergen. So neither the input nor the result is an image of humanities that is more pressured or exposed than other disciplines. On the contrary, we see more research than ever, and scientific publication has grown and forms an essential part of the research profile of our major universities. Student numbers in the humanities have been stable for many years. For example, in 2006, there was an increase in the number of problem drug users. out 2 280 completed candidates with primarily historical-philosophical subjects. In 2011, the number was 2,335. Of course, it does not preclude the experience of individual and individual disciplines in the large field of humanities. However, as a diagnosis for the field at the overall level, the characteristic of the morning paper, to which it is referred, gives a very signified picture. The representative Trine Skei Grande points out that the institutions are building up student offers in subjects where student inflows are low. It's not unexpected. After all, institutions are encouraged to profile themselves professionally and give priority to areas where they do well. If something is to be given priority, something else must necessarily give way. The representative of Trine Skei Grande also points to an opinion that today's funding model is a challenge for the humanities. I don't share this perception. Universities and colleges receive an annual framework allocation consisting of long-term and strategic means and performance-based disaggregation in research and education. The framework within which the institutions themselves are responsible for prioritising has increased significantly. For 2012, these funds go directly to universities and higher education institutions over 26 billion. kr. This shows that the funding model – rather than being a challenge – provides and has given good conditions for profiling professional and priority areas where it is done well. As part of the SAK strategy, i.e. cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration, appropriations have been allocated to the humanities through the University and Higher Education Council of 1.5 million. kr in 2010. In this way, the humanities faculties have also been given an important incentive in the ongoing efforts to strengthen interaction and division of labour in order to improve the use of resources in their trades. This work with SAK is long-term. In recent years, the government has given emphasis to meeting the need for training places in teaching, health and social sciences, mathematics, science and engineering. This is in line with projections of society's need for competence, and we share these priorities with many other countries around us. In addition, the government has provided institutions with so-called strategic study places that they themselves can allocate to their priority fields. Here the institutions have had room for action to strengthen, for example: the humanities. Fortunately, the institutions' subject, subject and study offerings are not written in stone. Neither is the dimensioning of the subjects — neither the number of employees nor the number of places of study. Universities and higher education institutions themselves determine the subjects and subjects to be offered by the institution in line with accreditation. It would be a faulty and outdated education policy to expect institutions to maintain their entire study portfolio unchanged over time. There is a lot of development and innovation in the academic world. New topics, new subjects and new study programmes are being developed across traditional disciplines. I welcome this creativity and innovation. Some of the new offers may be lost over time, while others, who respond better to the real needs of society, will prove to be important innovations. Student influxes shall not be on their own. On the other hand, we have no guarantee that the student's inflow to German or classical subjects would increase significantly even if more popular subjects and studies were to be discontinued. We cannot force students to choose a course with bad search. In the European context, where Norway has been released, we have stressed the importance of integrating social sciences and humanities into other research to meet the societal challenges. I have called in particular for the humanities and social sciences to be clearly integrated into all the major challenges outlined in the new EU Horizon 2020 programme. For the time being, it seems that our position may have won, and that these disciplines are actually going to be integrated throughout Horizon 2020. Also nationally, we take this seriously. The Norwegian Research Council has recently launched the programme on the cultural prerequisites of social development, known as SAMKUL. This programme, which has a total budget of 340 million. kr, shall contribute research-based knowledge on the cultural prerequisites of today's societal formation and on the further development of society. The cultural disciplines will have to be central here. I have also used this special program as an example of both thinking and research in the follow-up to the challenges we have faced since 22 July last year. The objectives of robust professional environments and better education and research underpin the government's higher education policy are: The ambitious objectives require a high level of institutions' ability to adapt and their willingness to convert. It turns out they have. The objectives require a long-term perspective and universities and higher education institutions must be in the driving position. In the meantime, they need to assess the subjects to be maintained and, through cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration, find solutions to ensure national competence in these subjects. I do not conceal that our institutions also have a responsibility for the continuation of the traditional heritage of knowledge, such as: The history and other humanities are. In this role, institutions have shown both great willingness to change and great interest in continuity. We have to keep it. I am pleased that they have the courage to give priority, and I feel confident that they will – without throwing overboard what is the most important of what we are going to build on. But it is necessary to look ahead and see the need for priority, and as I said, I feel confident that it will continue to produce good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e199	I might have hoped that the tone would be a little different in a day that must feel a little different. But everything is perfect, and what people in the sector say is wrong. The reality is what it looks like from the Council's office. I still want to raise two questions. We know the subjects are being cut. We know that – if we count on petroleum research, which is a major part of Norwegian research – this field goes down. We know that seas when we get institutions to offer breadth – like when we get a university in Stavanger, which gets the title university and then has to offer breadth – subjects like German, French, art history, cultural science are dropped as subjects. I believe that, in this Chamber, we must have an understanding of the role these subjects play. My two questions to the Council of State are: Are we sure that we have a system that is robust enough for new trends? Because if you suddenly see that there are new student trends, it's not just pinching your fingers, and then you have a trade union environment. It's not just pinching your fingers, and then you have scientific staff who are ready to teach in the subjects we see there's a need in society, and the students see that they need in their portfolio to get a job in the future. That's the one question. The second is that there is no national responsibility for, for example: Norwegian as a language exists at universities for a while to come? Is nobody responsible for that? Is it such that everyone can drop Nordic and Norwegian as a language subject, and that Norway can suddenly stand in the situation that we don't have anyone responsible for it? Time didn't go, President, so it was a little hard to know when I was going to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e212	Then we agree that now it is said what should be said. We're going to Aasland State Council, and then we're going to start the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e217	I think on my side it's a pity that the representative doesn't take into account the actual conditions that describe the humanities at large. I said in my post that there may be down priorities within the individual subjects, also in the humanities, but that there are necessary down priorities to fit in with other subjects. Obviously, we all have a general responsibility for the basics. But that – let’s say – more detailed responsibility for priorities and study provision at each institution, whether universities or colleges, is delegated by law to the governments of the institutions. I respect that the governments of the institutions see that responsibility, also for the humanistic subjects – which Skei Grande and I both agree must be there. But we do not get away with the fact that universities and colleges themselves determine the subjects and subjects to be offered, and how these are dimensioned, in line with the accreditation they have. It is clear that, through the budgetary process, the state may have considerable influence, and I have also explained that we have actually increased — and strengthened — the budgets of the universities and colleges through the functioning of this government. However, authorities cannot intervene whenever an institution makes a decision that may appear difficult or controversial. It would be to undermine the responsibilities and powers of the institutions – and professional autonomy. But it is clear that we are going along. Through the University and Higher Education Council, we have given both motivation and economic incentive to take care of these little subjects that are so vulnerable and which we all think should be there. But since universities are funded at institutional level and not in the individual disciplines, we must maintain a good balance and recognise the different parts of our responsibilities between us as superior authorities, which stimulate and inspire and also provide financial support for the proper functioning of a whole, and respect for the individual institutional priorities. Of course, the financial system must be a rough system, which neither can nor should stimulate all the activities and tasks of the institutions. It is therefore important that we both have close contacts with the institutions and that, through the University and Higher Education Council, we can do such actions as we have done – namely to stimulate extra incentives for this which can be single elements in the large picture. But the humanities in general are nothing worse than other disciplines!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e234	The Labour Party shares its concern for the humanities. That's right: these subjects have a key role to play in social development and in our understanding of democracy. But when that is said, I would like to stress that today we have a fairly good professional offer in this area, and we naturally have to take good care of that. The question is whether the humanities of our higher education institutions are on the sotte bed. No, there's nothing to suggest. The number of his/her speech indicates that in no area the position is alarmingly bad. I note that the interpellant supports his claim that the humanities are under strong pressure, with this quote: ‘In a number of institutions, the offer has gradually been reduced to subjects where student inflows are low and the number of scientific annual works at the humanities faculties has been reduced in recent years.’ Yeah, I was just saying it was just missing. The fact that institutions themselves are given priority and, in the next round, a priority area is a willful policy. Not consistently building up the humanities, but we just want the institutions themselves to have a clear strategy to define what they want to prioritise and what they will not give priority to. That doesn't mean we want to abdicate and give up a national policy in this area. Our task is to follow the big development lines. Does development go the right and desired way, or does it not? If some institution takes a decision that creates debate and concerns locally, the authorities cannot intervene and review the decision for that reason. In this case, it would be to undermine the institution's sense of responsibility and thus be unwise. In this context, I'm actually going to give credit to the institutions. Much good development and innovation is taking place in the academic world. New subjects and new study programmes will be developed across traditional disciplines. This creativity and innovation are precisely the result of institutions using the autonomy added to them in this area. In general, the sector should be managed at institutional level and not on isolated disciplines – and in any case not since the last five years in the field in question show a relatively stable level with a small growth over the period, from 2,280 to 2,335 finished candidates with historical-philosophical subjects. So, based on the student numbers, there's no reason to override the institutions. Could it be, then, that there is a terrible research situation on the basis of which the humanities seem to be under strong pressure? No, once again there is no basis for saying that there is a subject area under strong pressure. Humanities have also gained their share of the large growth in R & D investment in the 21st century. Externally funded research in humanities increased its share from 20 to 25 pst. through the 21st century. It shows that humanities research is also relevant to external sources of funding. But when that is said, I would like to point out that we are familiar with the concerns that many in the sector feel, namely that humanities should become the relative loser in today's funding system and by too much external funding of research. So far it's not possible to register that it's found, but evolution should follow closely. This relationship is so much undermined when we look at the numbers for the results of the research measured in scientific publications from the humanities faculties of our largest university. There has been a stable and clear national growth here, although it may vary from institution to institution. Finally, I would like to stress that the Labour Party is very comfortable with the fact that the Council of State underlines its government's objective of a robust professional environment in all areas and better quality of education and research at higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e270	First, I want to thank the interpellant, who has raised a very important question. At best, humanities enable us to understand both our past and our present, they help to promote critical thinking to power and government and to deepen our understanding of language, culture and values. It is in the nature of humanities that rapid, market research results are difficult to achieve. The strength of humanities lies in the long-term perspective. In economics, law and real science, more than in academia, you can produce commercial research where the value of money is easy to see. It's not like that in the humanities. It is therefore not only possible to base short-term and superficial benefits on research policy. From ancient Greece, through the information age of our time, the principles of how research is to be carried out have evolved. Central to today's humanistic, democratic tradition is the emphasis of free research. Akademia should not be a critical tool for the government. Long-termity, predictability and freedom of academic institutions are one of the pillars of a free society, and a prerequisite for this is that institutions have an economic space for action. It is worth recalling that the Progress Party, together with the other civil parties, was committed to strengthening the basic funding in the UH sector. But here, as an educational politician, I want to offer a call to the speakers of the humanities, who have a major challenge. As editor of research.no, Nina Kristiansen, the humanists have to be better at selling themselves, to tell you why humanities are useful. In an article in research.no, she wrote on 11 January 2011: ‘The three dean who were expounded and chattering about budget cuts became so tame when they were asked to produce research results from humanities — from their own faculty, from Norway or the world — in the year that went on. They were given a good time to submit proposals. Under mild pressure Einar Lie came with a nomination. I never heard from the dean in Trondheim and Bergen. Perhaps they thought the enquiry was either too absurd or too difficult." This is sad and unfortunate for the humanities. Think of the importance that linguistics really have in today's globalised society, or cultural understanding or how important it is to have knowledge of the past, about ideology and philosophy in today's situation with dark clouds in the horizon and crisis both in the United States and in Europe. Here the humanities have a role to play, and that role must be better formulated by the humanists themselves, so that we, too, politicians on the Great Britain and in the government, are more able to see that the humanities are important and need resources. The party sees the value of the humanities and wants a more active dialogue with the actors in the humanities. This requires the will for dialogue and innovation of both parties – both from the humanists and from us politicians. In this way, we can work together to strengthen the whole of Education and Research Norway – and that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e294	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, points to a central challenge related to humanities, and as I must say, I think the Council of State was quite so lightly sweeping under the carpet. From our higher education institutions, the message is quite unambiguous. Today’s funding system is an important reason why humanities education is under pressure. In fact, the financing of higher education has not in any way followed cost developments in the sector. The right is therefore not surprised that this is now beginning to be reflected in the educational offer. The sector's reduced scope for action was well documented in the Action Room Committee report. It is worrying that the government has not followed up and covered the gap that has arisen. The right has taken on board the impact of the challenge and, in its alternative budgets, has proposed a significant increase in the allocation of the sector. Using the humanities as an example, the interpellant also points to another important point, namely the lack of strategic governance of the university and higher education sectors. The main task of the higher education sector is to train students with a competence in the labour market. At the same time, we need to be able to think in the long term and provide viable professional environments even within the humanities and in areas where fewer students are applying for the present. Therefore, it is a national challenge that several educational institutions now report possible cuts in humanities. These are important professional services, which need to be given the opportunity to develop further if Norway is not to become poorer again as a educational and cultural nation. Norway is a small country. For the university and higher education sectors, this means that we can't bet on the full scope of the study offerings everywhere. Institutions must address the consequences of changes in student search patterns. However, it must be a political responsibility to ensure comprehensive planning that continues to ensure strong environments of competence and attractive study provision, including in disciplines that experience less searching during periods of time. Today we feel that the institutions each at its edge is building up offers. Cooperation based on clear overall policy orders could identify ways to ensure a continued high quality offer in these subjects. It is close to concluding that neither the S nor the A of the government's SAC strategy, i.e. the ambitions for cooperation and division of labour, are followed up by the sector or department as the Stortinget has expected. The development we see in the dehulling of the same professional services in the sector, based on low applicant figures, does not indicate the necessary interaction and skills for division of labour to ensure that small trades do not disappear. The challenge addressed by the inter-pellant clearly underlines the need for a comprehensive plan for what we want with the university and higher education sectors, and – most importantly – how to ensure a high-quality offering in all disciplines in the long term. The right has repeatedly called for this, but the Council of State has not yet met us and has shown the willingness to design such a comprehensive plan and invited the Stortinget to join in that discussion. If we are to believe the speculations now about changes in the government, we must put our trust in another government council to take such an initiative. The challenge is that the Council of State and the Government have not been clear on what to distinguish Norwegian higher education. Therefore, she does not take responsibility for strategic management of the sector, and we are not given any debate on what criteria we believe are essential for providing quality and breadth in professional services across institutions. The sector needs signals to enable it to complete its societal mission. Once again, we have seen that the government is lagging behind in the development of higher education provision in Norway. At the same time, when we know that knowledge and competence are absolutely essential for Norway to maintain its competitiveness in an international market, it is reasonably risky that the Council of State has not intervened in this in a more reassuring way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e322	It was not a very uplifting debate on the part of the government parties, I must admit that. I started the day with being sorry that we might not have our own state council in the field, but I have to say that I am sorry for what we are using our own state council for today. First of all, I don't really get an answer to what I think is the big challenges. Can we have a funding system that takes into account keeping a professional environment, sailing if the student waves change? I have not received an answer to that. Secondly, do we have a national responsibility to take care of subjects that we believe we need as a nation? I don't mean to interfere with university autonomy, but you have to have a policy and a strategy to keep it. I believe that we are, for example, must have a Norwegian course. Who else will take care of the Norwegian subject if we don't? There are some such fundamental things a society – a formed society – should actually have, and this is our responsibility to have a national strategy to maintain. We can lose some of these jobs. The language subjects are not just about having people who can speak German, Italian and French in a good way in the future; it's about having a professional competence across the whole spectrum of culture, literature and everything else in this subject. There are many examples of us actually still teaching in languages that don't exist, i.e. languages that are no longer spoken today, but it's important to have that competence, because we're dealing historically with texts in these languages. I'm also worried about a history subject that's more and more about the last hundred years, and that loses what's about mentality history, which is just as important to understand in a multicultural society as we have today. But I notice that through the debate everything is a little bit twisted on my head – with an SV and a working party that only talks about numbers and just beats numbers in the table, as I experience a progress party and right talking about the importance of the formation and that everything cannot be measured in numbers. This is a little bit of a twist. So when I hear the Council of State, and listen to Bremer, and when we see that everything can only be explained by numbers, it's clear that the humanities need a stronger position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e336	Of course, it's not that the government parties don't see the value of strengthening both humanities and social sciences. This Council of State has repeatedly been on this platform, talking about the need for both the formation of our higher education institutions and the need for institutions to take their social responsibility seriously. But it's kind of strange when the interpellant doesn't even want to take the numbers over itself. So, you can criticize us in the government for being busy with numbers, but when the numbers tell us that the situation is not so crazy -- it's actually been an increase, there's a lot more students, we score well with the Nordic countries, right on the humanities -- then I'm amazed at this way of discussing. It is not very constructive to criticise something that is so one-sided. I have a little comment on Bente Thorsen's posts. I thought it was an interesting post, because I fully agree that here must be the humanities and everyone involved, even understanding how important it is to demonstrate the need for it to still bet – because there is too much discussion internally, which does not understand so much about the outside world. But at the same time, I would like to reiterate to the representative that when she asks for research funding for something other than what can be measured in dollars and cents, I remind everyone in the Chamber of the amount of free project support we have done in this year's budget, i.e. research-driven research, which actually amounts to 100 million. kr, initially, from the government side, and signed off with 100 million. kr extra – in addition – from universities. So this is 200 million. kr more than last year for free project support. I guess that's a clear enough signal that this is research that we think is important. So to Skei Grande's two questions, I'll answer yes to both questions. Yes, we have a funding system that also follows fluctuations. But I'm not a stranger to the fact that at some point our systems have to be evaluated, and we have to follow closely and see if we follow up, and we have to follow through on all the challenges that are there. And yes to the question of whether we have a national responsibility: of course we have a national responsibility, but I'm so willing to include our universities and colleges in national responsibility. They are state, national, autonomous institutions — our leading knowledge institutions — which must make the necessary priorities in both research and education, but which must also make their social responsibility more visible. They're doing a good job, they're getting paid. We have to back this up. Both big business and government have, of course, a responsibility – along with them – to ensure that we have a good development for the humanities, that we train good people and that we have good research in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e351	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e367	Security is a fundamental asset of well-being. Safe people in safe homes are a prerequisite for us to call ourselves a well-functioning democracy and a welfare society. Norway remains a safe country, compared with most countries. We're still a small and homogeneous society, with less social differences than many others, and we have great trust in each other. The Nordic model works and is a result of the work of alternating governments and large-scale majority. Together with a well-functioning welfare state, with a balance between public and private responsibility, and where change is being made to improve the best in society, this helps to prevent social problems, social exclusion and people falling outside. This is an important reason why we have been able over several years to prevent too many from falling into and out of crime. The events of July 22 make it more important than ever to strengthen volunteering and civil society, so as to counteract involuntary solitude and achieve all the great benefits — both for individuals and the community — of being together and gaining trust in each other. But that model is under pressure, both economically, because of greater human migration and because we are less homogeneous than before. There is a great deal of pressure on all police partners – whether it be school, nav, criminal services, child protection or health services – and there is room for more conflicts between people. The police can never take over all of these other tasks, even if we easily point to the police when a problem arises. At the same time, a visible, accessible and close police force is an important piece to help correct a development in which some break the social contract, create insecurity and less trust between people. In recent years, we have seen that confidence in the police in general is still high, while those who actually meet the police have reduced it. Strengthening the confidence that the police are doing something about the reduced trust that people have in the authorities' ability to create a safer society is a shared political responsibility. When I said that the Nordic model works and is a result of changing governments and large-scale work, the situation of the police applies equally fully. We are in a situation where we are in arrears in terms of remanding the police to match the crime scene – not only towards 2020, but also towards 2030. It must be the starting point for any debate that the point is not to blame for each other, but that we take our common responsibility and get to the strengthening of the police that we all agree on. If we can agree on the same reality description per day across the party borders, and not end up in the vicious debates about who said what and which government didn't do what, then we'll get a bit on our way. In the past, the right has presented a plan to increase the number of police officers by 2 000 by 2016, based on the level in 2009. It is realisable, but requires clear priorities. After 22 July, everyone agrees that preparedness should be strengthened. But the police are not going to be able to build better preparedness in the future while it is going to have all its day-to-day tasks. Therefore, the Right Invitation to the Stortinget and the Stortinge opposition is still standing for a settlement on the police resources at hand. And even though the proposal on the ICT for the Storing has sometimes been voted down, it also stands by it – not as criticism, but as a sincere desire for the Storing to be involved so that we can assist all the police officers who are now struggling to meet all the objectives set for them within the framework of scarce operating budgets. We have had many debates on the need for increased police coverage. The need has not narrowed, nor has the economic crisis in the rest of the world become more and more uncertain. The financial crisis also causes several countries to make savings in their respective judicial budgets. This raises crime-related challenges not only for these countries but also for Norway as part of an open world economy with free movement of persons, goods and services. Lower presence of police in e.g. other European countries are likely to require a greater need for increased police coverage and preparedness in rich Norway. The size of the population simply needs a more comprehensive overview of the challenges associated with reductions in other European countries’ justice budgets, its importance and its implications for Norway. We have not been prepared for the challenges that economic differences in Europe will pose in terms of people applying for jobs in Norway. We have not been well enough prepared to open borders bring great challenges on the crime side. The fact that police in cooperating countries are not doing the same thing as before will also affect Norway. This may mean that the analyses behind the crew report have become more out of date. I don't intend to do history writing beyond pointing out that the Centre-Right-Registration started an escalation of places at the Police College which was continued after a two-year break by Stoltenberg II. Of course, in the name of the after-school clock, the escalation of the admissions to the Police College under Bondevik should have begun before, but the analysis job that was done was probably not good enough. And, of course, in the name of the postwar clock, the majority government should not have waited for two years to continue the escalation that began during Bondevik, although fortunately – all parties – we have made a record record at the Police College now. The budgets of the police have increased over several years, and we also have to ask questions about the use of money. That's what we'll be able to do in the next interpellation. There is reason to stress that tasks have increased considerably, and that is why in recent years many police districts have been downrooted and struggling to meet all of the Stortinge’s goals. For over six years we've had a majority with more money to distribute than ever. The fasitant when we write March 2012 is that the police coverage is not where it should be. At the same time, reconciliation queues are likely to increase in the future, and preparedness is not good enough in society. The point of this interpellation is not to criticize, but this is the real situation in our sector, and it worries us all. Unfortunately, this year's budget, which is governed by the Council of State, is likely to make us even more indebted to what is a common goal. The right suggested the necessary 400 million. kr extra for us to be able to ‘boost’ police operating budgets, so that we can achieve the goals the government itself says it still has. It's still not satisfactory that the Stortinge participates in some kind of quiz, where we have to guess what's going on. I refer again to the proposal on the ICT initiative, and that we again propose a police study. There are still proposals that I hope the government can assess. It was set at 80 million. SEK to ICT in the current year’s budget. It was a start, after the Storting has had to guess over several years how much we have to spend on ICT. However, the cost is up to 250-350-400 million. So 2012 really started with 270-300 million. NOK i minus to hire people, and SEK 140 million. SEK for new jobs is well below half of the likely cost of ICT investment. In the future, the Right will be open to structural debate, but changes will help bring more police, and not less. We should learn from the results of the previous police reform, what the results actually were. It doesn't hold that watchlists don't match the real crime scene, and that agreements about an extra hour's job don't have clear leads for what it's going to contribute to by increasing police force. In addition, we need to think anew to get more visible policemen. There, I repeat, the Right proposal, to get clear strategies for what civil servants may have of so-called secondary tasks. Finally, we have had many, many, many debates. We're going to keep having these debates. It's not to be uncomfortable with the government, but because the whole Storing actually has these common goals. We have previously asked questions about what are the concrete figures that can show us in the future that we are on the right track, not on the wrong road. Today's VG shows with all manner of clarity what challenges we have. That is why I allow questions to the Council of State about how the Council of State will ensure that there is no further deficit in terms of police coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e402	I have to challenge the premises of the representative Octay Dahl's reality description on some points, as he describes them in the interpellation. He makes a number of unsubstantiated claims that are unsubstantiated. I probably cannot accept the premises for the question either. We're not in deficit as far as police coverage is concerned. First, I need to make it clear that the police coverage is – which everyone is aware of – depending on both the number of police officers and the number of citizens. In addition, all police positions in the police districts and special agencies have to be taken into account when calculating the police coverage. The government has done a lot to facilitate an increase in the number of police officers. We have a long-term plan for this work. It is based on the report ‘Police against 2020 — The need for manpower and competence in the police’, presented by the Police Directorate in the summer of 2008. In this report, the Police Directorate proposes to increase police staff by 2 700 police officers and 1 000 civilian posts by 2020. This is the objective of both political and cross-political agreement. We took a major step in terms of civil positions as early as 2009, when 460 civil annual works were created in the police and civil service. One of the main objectives of this increase was the release of police-trained personnel for operational police work. A report made at the end of 2009 showed that about 280 police officers were released for operational work. In order to meet the need for 2,700 new police officers by 2020, the government proposed to increase the admission of the Police College to 552 students from 2009 – as proposed in the report. In 2010, 2011, and also in 2012, the recording increased further, to 720 students. It's only in 2013 that the first large hill of 720 students is based on the Police College. Based on the forecasts available, the police coverage will be two per 1 000 in 2020. So we're not in deficit, as Oktay Dahl claims. However, a significant uncertainty factor in the projections is population growth. When the ‘Police against 2020’ was presented in 2008, there were forecasts from the SSB, as mentioned, a population increase of 13,5 pst. towards 2020, i.e. a population in 2020 of approximately $5.38 million. However, the most recent projections show a higher population growth than that projected in 2008. The most recent forecast by the SSB is for a population of 5,597 million in 2020. This is 217,000 more people than what was supposed to be, and this alone requires 434 more police officers. This illustrates some of the challenges we face, and shows that we need to adapt the political map to the terrain in the coming years. Let me now review some of the statements made by Mr Dahl. He writes: ‘The Centre — The Right Government began an escalation of places at the Police College, which continued after a two-year break by Stoltenberg II.’ This is with respect to reporting directly wrong. This government has not experienced a two-year break in the escalation. The first budget we prepared from the beginning was the 2007 budget. The recording at the Police College was then increased from 360 to 432 students. In the last three years, including 2012, the recording has been on 720 students – in other words, a doubling of what it was when we took over after the center – the Right Government. One of the reasons we've had too few police officers is that the admission at the Police College was too low for years, which right has a large part of the responsibility for. The representative Octay Dahl goes on to say: ‘Therefore, in recent years many police districts have been suffering from downsizing and struggling to meet the objectives of the Storting.’ This is probably not true either, on the contrary: in order to enable students to get a job in the building, the government has proposed increased appropriations in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 so that the increasing student schools from the Police College can be offered a job in the police. This does not mean that all the students are offered a job once they have completed their education. It will take some time before job vacancies become available, but experience has 93–95 pst. of the students work in the establishment one year after completion of education. Calculations of the number of retirement or terminations for other reasons are based on statistics on age and experience. If the departure is lower than estimated, it may take a little longer for all students to get a job in the building. In addition, it's important to remember that we're training a police force for the whole country. There is no human right to get a job in big cities, so police students, like engineers, journalists, nurses and others, must be willing to move. In order for students to get a job quickly, the new posts in the police must be published as basic posts. In addition, the latest review of the number of annual works in the police and county councils that I have received from the Police Directorate and the PST shows a clear increase of 917 annual works from the end of 2008 to the end of 2011. This is divided into 201 police officers, 15 lawyers and 701 civil servants. These are actual annual figures. As far as budgetary developments are concerned, I would say that while the representative, Octay Dahl, expressed concern at the growth of the budget in the justice sector, he now believes that the economic situation in the police districts does not seem to be ‘very much better in the years to come’. Then I have to remember that the budget for the police and prosecution authority in the period 2005-2012 has increased by about 56 pst, from 8.2 billion. kr to 12.9 b.w. kr. It was actually a different situation when Per-Kristian Foss was Minister of Finance. Former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum describes the position of the judiciary sector under the previous government as follows in his autobiography, the Ombudsman at work: ‘Right – with the Minister of Finance, the majority of the government and a former head of the Justice Committee around the table, chose creative performance suggestions rather than giving fresh money to strengthen law and order.’ It is true that it has been necessary to prioritise ICT in the police in recent years. In 2011, around 250 million were put off within the police operating framework. to work on renewing the ICT systems of the police. This year a special grant of 80 million was granted. to ICT measures in the police, including to renew criminal justice systems in the police. However, it is not true, as the representative Octay Dahl writes, that the Stortinget has been ‘informed that the essentials’ of the future renewal of criminal justice systems ‘are to be taken directly from the operating budgets of the police districts’. The Directorate of Police has carried out a draft committee investigation, which is now being subject to external quality assurance. When the investigation is quality assurance, the government is provided with a basis for assessing the financial framework necessary for the implementation of the project. The expenditure will be assessed in the annual budgets, and I can promise that the Stortinget will be properly informed about this when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e458	I must say! This article was almost as much as it should have been held by an opposition politician. It was not even an indication to take seriously the situation of messages that police officers, police officers and the population come with. 8 1⁄2 minutes was spent explaining why the Bondevik government and the Right are responsible for a majority government, with more money to distribute than ever, not having a better police coverage than it has. I really have to say that there is a certain mismatch when the Great Fractional Head of the VG today says that the situation is worrying and that the police coverage in the various police districts needs to be reviewed. Follo Police District – one blank per thousand. This must mean that the budgets will be doubled within seven years for Follo police districts. Police boats are sold to finance police cars. We get messages from police officers in particular that are about to go off, for they dare to tell the truth. They're actually also saying what they're saying at internal meetings, that the situation is worrying, and you're doubting that you're going to achieve the goals that the Storting has set. Then I also have to say that it may be an advantage for a government council to listen to some of the reasons given in the hall, not just read out the answer. It was actually an indication of self-recognition from my side that we have a common political responsibility, and that the escalation started too late. We have a record record now, but we also struggle with the fact that there is too much disqualification at the Police College – people are applying for other professions. So I have to honestly say that after almost seven years of government, you are actually responsible for the situation you are in. If this is the position the Minister of Justice has on what is the real situation in the police case in combating crime, I would say on behalf of the Right that I am very concerned. Because it's "disturbing" to quote Jan Bøhler's words in the VG today, which is in direct contradiction to what the government council presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e469	I'm busy, like the interpellant, securing citizens a good police service. I am also, like the interpellant, concerned that providing citizens with security is absolutely central. That's why I'm also concerned that we're describing reality, the position we now have, in the right way. With the premises put into the interpellation, I saw it right to correct the points where I do not see agreement between reality and the premises that were described. I am also very pleased that the interpellant now confirms so strongly that he believes in the efforts made by the Workers' Party at the Police College. I noticed that I have not heard the Right Policy when it comes to strengthening the police, before. I notice that the plan to increase by 2 000 officials, calculated from 2009 to 2016, is based on the fact that this government actually delivers and will also deliver a high number in terms of student admissions next year. It's this government that will lay the foundation for actually having the required number of students by the end of 2016. It was very interesting that it is the foundation of the government that underlies the plans that have now been presented to the Right. It actually provides a good basis for discussing how to solve the common challenges in the future. The last thing I want to say is that when the interpellant spends so much time describing the Norwegian and Nordic models, it surprises me all the more that the answer from the Right has been so unambiguously tax-free, and how the interpellant also ran so easily over how the Right in Position made the appropriations for the justice sector so limited that the then Justice Minister has actually chosen to go out publicly with how he felt it was to sit as Minister of Justice in that government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e478	First of all, I would like to say that this is a discussion that we have had around every budgetary procedure in this committee and in Stortinget, and we have had a thorough discussion of this also recently – before Christmas. The whole discussion shows that it is primarily where this belongs. I also think that we have had enough discussions about how many students there were at the Police College during the Bondevik II government, etc., so that we can go further. So the question is, do we have a common description of reality? I think there is a common concern about what appears, that there has been some decline in the number of policemen, i.e. uniform policemen, when you do not expect the increase in civil servants. Overall, the number of years worked by the police has increased by approx. 1 200 from 2005 to 2011. It appears in a written reply to Mr Werp from the Department and the Police Directorate recently. But there has also been a population increase, and the majority of the 1,200-year-olds are civilians, which was also the subject of the Council of State. So it's a common concern, but it's also a clear plan for what we want to do with it, and that's what the Council of States is emphasising in its article. I can see that there is consensus in the Stortinget about the first three years of 720 students from the Police College, because it takes three years to train them, and it will have to be spent three years at a time. It is estimated that it is approx. 300 to 400 who leave the police every year because of retirement. Then, with the 720 graduates per year, you'll be able to have a net of up to 400 new ones in the police every year – if we still get almost everyone to start in the police, which has been the case in the last years, then 95 pst. of those who have graduated from the Police College, have started working in the police for a year. If we then say that it will be up to 400 in net growth per year over the eight years from 2013 to 2020, the net increase in the police will be about 3,200. It's beyond the 2,700 that it's added up to in the 2020 strategy, to which we've all joined here in the Stortinget. But the fact that we have to be on the other side is obvious, among other things. as a result of population growth, which was also referred to by the Council of State. There is every reason to consider the plan of 720 out of Police College every year towards 2020 – whether we are in line with the plan. In addition to the good plan for increased education at the Police College, we depend on the graduates to get into work. I can see that there is agreement at Stortinget on the plan that the 720 who are trained should be working. It depends on the budgets each year – whether the budgets give room for it. We will have that discussion when the budget is submitted to the harvest, if there is a good enough budget to ensure that the 720 come into operation. It's true, as has been pointed out both by the Council of State and by the interpellant, that we need more earmarked resources for ICT. In particular, it will be able to get through when the concept selection investigation, i.e. the investigation into how the new ICT systems are to be introduced into the police, is ready, so we can see the costs and get back to Stortinget with it. It is also important that the police do not spend budgetary resources on things that may be a little more peripheral to the main objective, namely to increase staffing, increase the number of people who are going to do all the tasks that the Storting keeps drawing up. For example, in the Oslo police force in 2011, it was decided to invest tens of millions in something called a MIK vehicle, which is used during demonstrations. There's obviously an investment you can put a little question mark in the light that the Oslo Police are struggling to maintain their crew and have enough people out in the street. I also believe it is important that the Police Directorate follows up in discussions with the police districts about how they manage to use the budgets so that they ensure that these 720 come to work, and that we live up to the goal of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e491	I note that this interpellation debate ends where other debates have ended – in a discussion about who has the right sense of reality. And I'm recording that the Council of State is not inclined to capture the signals that the entire Justice Committee receives when it's out traveling. There should be no lack of examples, especially in the last 12 months, which should at least give rise to concern, including at the Council of State, when we have reports from various police districts almost every day that the police do not have resources. Women who wish to report rape are not allowed to report because they do not have resources, etc., etc. We also received a report from the police in the cold water on 22 July, a report that pointed out that the police have at least 50 learning points. These include lack of personnel, lack of resources, but they also go a lot on coordination practices — that there is a lot to learn there. At some point, the Storing and the Government must agree on the understanding of reality, because we agree that we should have two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants in 2020. And the assumptions change along the way, for example. with regard to population growth, which unfortunately is no longer a population increase, but a population explosion in some regions, and which, of course, crushes our progress and ambitions to reach the target of two to 1000. Clearly, there are other things that also affect. One can not just look at the educational course and the admission to the Police College. You have to take the population increase as a moment. The second is all of these new tasks that the police are assigned to every year. The Joint Police Association has pointed out that over the past 12 years more than 100 new tasks have been assigned to the police. And you also have to look at that in this context. I would like the Council of State to explain, or clarify, this now, because one points to the intention of the Storting to achieve the target of two to 1,000 in 2020. As far as I am aware, this operational position applies. I now record that the Directorate and the Council of State have gone away from it, and that they count budgeted posts instead. It is clear that if one departs from annual work in the field of operational positions and includes budgeted positions within the police when one speeds up a coverage rate of two to 1000. I would like the Council of State to respond to that, because if it's like the government is now dealing with a different relationship to what the Biggest has founded, and what the Biggest wants in terms of two to one thousand, it's important. The Storting must then adjust its intentions and ambitions to reach two to 1,000. The police are doing a lot today that can be left to others. That's why the number you're operating on now, the last number, is 1.46. If you do what the Council says, you're up to 1.57. So no matter what number you're referring to, it's right that the interpellant points to-- you're looking at a deficit. This is due to several factors, which I have been dealing with: population growth, new tasks, and it is also due to the fact that the police have not been taken seriously enough. We expected the take-off to be high for a period of two, three, four years, but not at the level we are currently registering. That's why I had hoped to get a signal from the Council of State that maybe you should look at the departure of the police, and then I also think about the retirement age within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e506	First, thank you to the interpellant who addresses an important theme in this interpellation. The more surprising at least for me, and perhaps more, it is that the Council of State claims – to the degrees – to have the right description of reality in all matters relating to the central theme of police coverage. When the Council of State thus defines reality, there are probably a lot of people who are amazed – who have a distinctly opposite experience of what reality and everyday life look like. The council says everything is under control, even though the police coverage de facto goes down, and has gone down, under this government. She responds to the situation description that everything is going to go better, because the government has a plan, anchored in the Stortinget, and that everything is going to go up. But it is today, and the reality today, that is perceived as problematic and urgent in the police case, given the important job that the police have in order to secure the security of society. I am also surprised that the Council of State almost ignores the fact that she is part of a government and a large majority of people over almost seven years in this room and thus has full responsibility for what has happened over a very long period of time, and justifies the criticism against the interpellant that the previous government, i.e. Bondevik II, did not propose increases in the admission of students to the Police College. Then I have to ask the Council of State: what did the Workers' Party do in opposition in that period to increase the admission to the School of Police? The answer is, as the Council of State probably also knows, that the Labour Party in opposition in the period 2001–2005 did not propose a single penny more, or a single study place more, than the sitting government at that time. The Council of State concerns ICT investment as an important premise for this debate, and that is quite right. So we are not told about the other side of that issue – which is the reality, I would say – from the police point of view, that ICT investment is paid with operational resources from the agency, which pressure the police service even more than the police coverage figure indicates. The representative, Mr. Bøhler, said in his speech that the government has a clear plan to increase police coverage. We are aware that there is a plan, which has also been adopted in this Chamber, for police coverage in 2020. We in the Right are concerned about that plan, because there is no government plan on how to cover ICT investment that is absolutely necessary. When we don't have the answer to that, or a plan to cover such a central tool in the fight against crime, we're concerned about how the government follows up the Storting's decision on the 2020 police coverage. Before we answer that, we're still going to ask critical and certainly unpleasant questions and interpellations to the government. I also stress what the inter-pellant said that we want broad and cross-political cooperation in such an important area as the security of society. We have made many proposals, and one after the other has been rejected, the last proposal for a wide-ranging police study, which, on our side, is a contribution to gathering on some very fundamental issues relating to police activity, organisation and action, which are intended to ensure the security of society. But it was also dissented, because the government is clearly sitting with the power of definition, with the description of reality, and obviously they're also sitting on all the answers. We don't think it's right that they have all the good answers and that they have the right description of reality. That is why we are going to follow up on this – also in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e517	First I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for the interpellation and for the good contribution he made. I share his view, and I am pleased with the overall approach of the Right to the debate, in terms of the job in society – volunteering, the family – that can be done, all the prevention that can be done, so that one can reduce crime and thus also reduce the need for police, while pointing out that the Nordic model, on which the Right, Christian People's Party and the opposition are clearly on, is important in order to create a security, trust, in society, is precisely important in terms of a case like this. So it's like this, as the interpellant says, that at some point there will still be someone who breaks the law. Then it's important that you have a police officer who can be there and protect society. The Christian People's Party has stated that two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants are an important goal. It has a total mass, a united political Norway, as its goal. So I have to say that I'm a little surprised by the statements of the Council of State, because as far as I can see, there's a news in that post. It is not that there are two per 1000 that are the target anymore – one has gone away from that goal. That is the number of police officers to be increased by 2020, i.e. no longer two to 1,000. And that disappoints me. Development is clear. In 2008, it was 1.8. Today we see that it's 1.48. Continuing that trend, it will be 1.2 in 2020. No matter what kind of reality you have, because it's obvious that the reality doesn't equal, and no matter how you choose to look at it, it goes the wrong way. If we want to get the police coverage up, the numbers can't point in the same direction, and then something drastic has to be done. I can do a couple of examples. In Asker and Bærum, police districts decreased from 370 to 327 year-olds during 2010. The number of police trained officials ranged from 220 to 190. As of today, there are 1.14 officials per 1000 inhabitants. That's what they say. ‘We need 140 additional officials. This amounts to between SEK 70 million and DKK 100 million.’» Another example is from my own police district, which I know well, and which I regularly have dialogue with: Agder police district. They have now fallen to 1.39 per 1 000 in 2011. Although it may surprise some, it is the second or third worst police district in terms of crime per 1,000 inhabitants after Oslo. It means that there are major challenges, and that someone needs higher police coverage. A pretty serious example is the university city of Grimstad, which only has an open office for three days. Four days is the office closed in Grimstad, in a university city. I think that's quite special. The signals for the police are clear. The reality description of those closest to the situation is clear. That is why the Christian People's Party has also chosen to be clear. We have increased the alternative budgets of the police significantly throughout this period. There are several points that I think are important, and that the Council of State must be concerned about in the future. It is clear that ensuring the higher education of police students is important, and that they actually work in the police. It is clear that everyone will not get a job right away, but it is important that it does not take too long, so that they disappear to other professions. Better senior policy is another key, which I believe should be given even higher priority. I believe that the government should address the special age limit in this field and in other fields. We can't afford to squander with the skilled, experienced police officers who disappear so early. It will be important to be able to conduct safe and good investigations, but they may also have an important role to play in prevention. So I believe that ensuring that the police do the right jobs, that civilians can take on the tasks that one does not need to be a police officer to do, is important. This debate I'm going to discuss later, in the next interview: how to use resources better. However, I would like to mention that drug policy is an important key element in this debate that one has to make progress again and again. The police are also clear. Every time it is clearly pointed out that doing something about the policy of giving, it will reduce the need. It is clear that using the police on a Saturday night, a Saturday night, is much more resource-intensive than using them for prevention or at other times during the week. The Christian People's Party wants to maintain the target of two per 1,000, regardless of population development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e546	This was a slightly different debate than I had thought, but I am at least very pleased that the representative Bohemian is adding a tone that is in line with what was my main point of introduction. The Council of State was surprised that the Right is concerned with more support for the police. If you had looked at nine out of ten budgets in the last few years, you would have seen that the Right in and out of government has proposed more money to the police than the Workers' Party. Then, too, it is surprising that we support the government’s police coverage plans. The whole common ground that we've had these debates for so many years is that we're all committed to achieving the goal we all have for police coverage. So it's not surprising that we support the plans; at least it wouldn't be surprising that we in the Right are concerned that the plans will also be implemented. Then I am very pleased with the article from Ropstad about the Nordic model. The whole point of bringing it up is that the most important defence agency we have is that we actually keep the best in the Nordic model, to which all the parties in this room have contributed in different ways. Tax is not in the Nordic model. The Nordic model is a balance between public, private, voluntary communities, which together have created the society we have. If you reduce the Nordic model to a tax question, to a question of how much we're going to release ourselves from liability via the tax bill, just, we're going to get a very cold society, which is not going to work prevention. It was also based on a unanimous vote by the Committee on 22 July on the approach to combating terrorism. So the surprise is – to say it like that – a little surprising for us too. Finally, Odd Einar Dørum was used as a truth witness for the entire article. Now it is that Dørum has said something in a book, but he has also said something else publicly. He takes a strong distance from being used as a truth witness in the way that one has now over several years done with Dørum. I even think I remember reading a text message for Dørum, because he is still very well aware of most things, even though he is neither the Council of State nor the Grandfather. Dørum has also sent an SMS earlier that has been read up from this pulpit, so he contradicts what is presented as a reality description of his attitude to what happened or not happened in the government. He got the money he wanted in the end, in cooperation with the Advance Party and others in Stortinget. If the debate wasn't quite as I had thought, and as good as I had hoped it would be, it is at least pleasing to see that there are shades of reality within the government parties, by the fact that Bohemia has a much more constructive approach to what the real situation is, not least by living here in Oslo. So I think it's nice to see that the Christian People's Party actually sees the point of more than just taxes, that you see that the Nordic model and the way we think in this country are under pressure for different reasons. We have to keep the best in the Norwegian and Nordic models, and it's doing the very best by actually discussing openly and honestly with each other and not reducing that kind of question to a tax question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e564	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the interpellation. To me, it's no surprise that we disagree with the story. I am all the more happy that we seem to share the picture of what is some of the challenges ahead, and that the Right then takes on the priority of education that this government has also done. I thought that was important and good to hear. It is that with the recordings of 720 students, which we now want from the fall on into all three classes, the educational capacity is also detonated. So we have to actually plan for how we should also address the challenges I experienced when the Ruppstad of the Christian People's Party addressed, namely that even if we follow up the plan in the 'Police against 2020', we have to ask ourselves the question: is that enough? To the question from Sandberg, the figures I mentioned regarding the growth of police years from the end of 2008 to 2011, as far as I understand, have been taken out of the pay and staffing systems of the police. Now it is also true that FAD counts posts in different sectors, including the police, so that the figure representing the increase from 1 October 2005 to 1 October 2011 has been removed from these human resources systems that FAD has. I think we'll have good discussions in the future on what will be the best way to meet the challenges and solve the problems. The special committee gave the government – and not least the Minister of Justice – very good instructions through the 14 decisions taken on the prioritisation of preparedness and related actions in both the police and justice sectors. I am absolutely sure that we will have good discussions on how to use the technology as efficiently as possible. That's why I'm dedicated to coming back to Stortinget after the concept selection investigation has been carried out for the criminal justice system. This is one of the big, heavy systems that will be absolutely central to effective police work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e573	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e589	When we discuss the justice budgets in general and the police budgets in particular, it is largely about how much more money we think we should spend. The previous debate was a very clear sign of this. But, of course, it's about spending the money we have, in the best possible way to create the safest possible society. We will, of course, never get there that we think we can save ourselves to a safer society. But we have to keep looking for areas where it can be assumed that it is possible to limit expenditure growth, cut costs and create a better offer. More research into what works or not in criminal matters, much better and more long-term planning for balance in criminal matters, better use of civil servants in the police action, more targeted recruitment increases, less red tape and increased efforts on voluntary and non-profit organisations are some examples. After almost seven years in the Justice Committee, it is really the lack of interaction between the police, the courts and the criminal authorities that strikes me. The annual budgets do not allow for strategic thinking for the whole and not just parts of the justice field. One year, the "win" police. The police, which according to Storberget was the big winner in this year's budget, don't say exactly that themselves, where in police districts after police districts they warn real downstaffing. But as compared to the criminal code, the criminal code perceives that they have won. And that's quite natural given that our prisons are tasteful. The inventory capacity has exploded, and the means to reduce the settlement queues that we may see are on the way back up now, which is because the police have started to produce cases after a conflict, and that we get more foreign criminals, are partly exhausted. The form and quality of the criminal care capacity plan that we hope will be properly addressed in Stortinget, the ‘birds’ do not know much about. The Courts, for their part, point out that they have long-term challenges, but the majority have warned that they view the same challenges as temporary ones and have therefore announced that they will reduce the allocations. Unfortunately, I am glad to see that in the last ten years we have managed to create systems for better balance in the criminal justice chain. It worries the Right, and it should really worry about all the parties, because it means that year after year we are running around with a bucket to accept the water that runs in from different holes in the ceiling. I therefore allow myself to ask the Council of State a perfectly open question: does the Council of State think that it is at all possible to achieve a better balance in the criminal procedure, or are we just going to keep talking about it? You can make analysis models for the most part. It is easy to calculate the economic impact of environmental problems. And then the question is, why is there no analysis and statistics available for example? the following thought experiment: 100 more police officers generate x number of cases, which in turn result in the need for x number of annual work in the courts, and then in the criminal justice system. And, not least, what do increased penalties actually mean because of new criminal law in the future? Norway is one of the richest countries in the world — including bureaucracy — and should be able to develop models and tools that can make some of the links you can calculate in other areas of society visible. I hope that the Council of State has some thoughts about it, since I did not get an answer to it when I asked the Prime Minister similar questions earlier. The next question is whether it makes sense for us to know almost nothing about what works or not, in criminal matters. But we believe very much. Over many years, criminal services have suffered from a type of project tyranny on which various party councils and others are to put their flag. Several volunteers have been given good things, but they feel that it takes a lot more to give 500,000 kroner to their project than to grant 100 million. kr into the large public system. The procedure that these volunteers experience, whether they're called Elevator, Frtex, the Fangers Family Association, the Free or the Right, seems a little more precise than some of the others these days seem to have operated, if only the proximity of those who got the money was large enough. I'm not going to take it anymore, but I'm going to ask the Council of State the following main question no. two: How can you ensure that the money allocated to criminal services is used properly? And how can we know more about what actually works, and not? On the police side, we know that the police claim that they have far more tasks than there are resources to do. That is why we have proposed a police study several times from the Right. The reasons for the dare be well known. The state council itself has said that the police must learn from the defense, and that is why the police have asked for a police study on the pattern of the Defence Study. It would provide better transparency and probably better use of funds in the sector and more security in the long term. Getting used by professional groups other than police officers in the police case has been a way to go. We talked about it in the previous debate, but after pressure from, among other things. Right-wing employees are several civil servants to free up police force. There had to be another financial crisis in order to understand that there was also a police crisis, but I have to leave it to myself. The challenge in the future is, at least, not having a good central strategy for what they can do in addition to what they do today, in the form of several secondary tasks. So question number. three to the Council of State are therefore: what does the Council of State see that civilians can contribute beyond what they do today, and will be presented with such a central strategy, for example. in the context of the performance reform? But before it comes, I'll ask the Council of State to try to be a little concrete as to whether she sees more tasks that civilians can do than today. In addition to the better and increased use of other professional groups, the question of how police resources are linked to relief and assistance tasks, such as: child protection and the health care system. In addition to clarifying the current legislation for this purpose, question No. Four: The Council of State sees some concrete reforms that can release police resources by making more responsible, for example: child protection and health care? In construction and civil engineering, investment, ICT and the appropriate organisation of services, competence is to a large extent combined with the ability and willingness to plan in the long term which is essential to gain or release funds for priority tasks. I am convinced to improve cooperation on, for example: the overall purchase and use of equipment throughout the justice sector, and not only for each part of the criminal proceedings chain, is possible. We see that when the information flow on criminals between the police and the criminal justice system is not optimal, and it is also based on a foundation that has not yet entered into force, there is reason to ask questions about how to understand that the total resources used throughout the criminal chain can be better used overall. So question number. five are therefore: can the Council of State point to any concrete action that is, or will be, taken in order to achieve better coordination in the use of money in terms of acquisitions overall in the justice sector? These five major questions have been asked as a warm-up to the Council of State on previous written questions, as well as that they are explained by the reasons for the main issue of this interpellation. The answer to this has been: ‘The Government is concerned that resources in the justice sector are being used in the best possible way. As shown by the answer to the above question, more efficiency measures have been implemented/implemented in the justice sector, but there is no comprehensive overview of all efficiency and savings measures implemented in recent years’.» Question no. six, which will then be new, is: will the Council of State initiate such an overview, so that it can form a picture of the potential, possibly unsolved, that lies there, since the Council of State, after accession, has just underlined the need for it in meeting demands for more money, i.e. that money should be used better? With regard to summaries of what more money has been spent on, there is no lack of an overview of it by any government. An assessment of the efficiency potential across the justice sector could be worth making, for example: a separate notification of deposit. Is the Council open? Finally, there is reason to point out in the public debate that it is both about more money for example. the police and the way in which they are used. Neither is this interpellation meant as a kick to the government. I stress that, so that we get more concrete answers than what I got in parts of the previous debate. It is a wish that the Storting should be involved in the future, not only in the struggle to spend the most money, but also to spend it right in the justice field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e626	This is an interpellation that I'm happy for. That together we focus on how we can spend the money in the justice sector as efficiently as possible on the right things to solve the most important problems is central to any government, and I'm sure for all parties. This is also how the representative Octay Dahl points out that the overall budget for the justice sector has increased significantly under the red-green government – more specifically, I think, 96 p.m., from 14.9 billion. SEK in 2005 to SEK 29,2 billion. kr in 2012. But part of this increase, everyone will know, because the immigration field has moved to the Ministry of Justice during this period. Growth in the budget is based on a comprehensive analysis of the sector’s tasks and challenges and, of course, a prioritisation of the tasks. Fortunately, we can also show many good results, but we know that we need to meet new challenges. Let me do the explanation first. The average resolution rate of 38 for crimes was reached for the first time in 2011. The number of reports has been reduced in recent years and, in particular, the number of reported burglaries from housing has fallen sharply. It is also gratifying that the number of cases involving young offenders has been greatly reduced. It shows that police prevention and targeted action against mobile profit criminals have produced results. The solstice in 2005 was probably the closest thing to what has to be called out of control, and it was also at the expense of the content of the solstice. We've talked about the police recruitment at the Police College in the past. It has also come up with a view to expecting an acceptable long-term police coverage. With targeted work, we have managed to reduce the pay queue, improve the content of the compensation, and get 870 new criminal execution sites. Long-term thinking has, as I said, laid the basis for the increased student uptake. These are important points in being able to put in place a long-term plan and implement it, and we should also be able to do so in new areas if necessary. The Government is committed to the proper management of the funds allocated, including the increase in the budget. We need to realise the greatest possible benefit of the investments we make in the sector. We are therefore now working on a broad-based reform of the results of the police and the police. In this work, we assess, among other things: the district structure of the Police and Len’s seat. We also look at the management, management, competence, manning, forms of work and the use of resources in the police. Another important part of the performance reform is to renew both the ICT infrastructure of the police and, as has already been mentioned, the criminal justice systems. It is absolutely necessary to improve police efficiency and ensure good information flow throughout the criminal justice chain. Last year, the Police Directorate launched an investigation into the choice of the concept for these new systems, and – as I mentioned – they are now undergoing an external quality assurance. It is absolutely central to the government to establish good, forward-looking plans for ICT investment in the police. The results reform will be discussed in more detail in the communication announced to the Stortinget later this year. How we organise criminal justice is an important political choice. The government is concerned that prisoners should have the minimum return to crime when they leave prison. In the big news of punishment, which seems to be working, we presented the return guarantee in order to reduce the relapse. All experience shows that what works is that convictions during settlement are helped with drug problems and that they are trained and qualified for a profession. A 2010 Nordic study showed that Norway has the lowest relapse rate for crime in the Nordic region. I believe a large part of the reason for this is that we are focusing on a knowledge-based criminal care that develops people. A new research strategy for criminal services is being developed and will provide the basis for a continued knowledge-based practice in Norwegian criminal justice. Right now there are over 1,200 foreign nationals in Norwegian prisons. The government has therefore also stepped up its efforts in recent years to transfer more non-residents to the home country. In 2011, 52 foreign prisoners were transferred to the settlement in their home country, compared with 41 years earlier. Measures have also been taken to convert a unit of Ullersmo prison into a department primarily reserved for foreign prisoners to be expelled and deported, or transferred to continued criminal execution in their home country. At a time when we have challenges both with full prisons and increased waiting time for sentences to come to a settlement, this contributes to better problem solving in the criminal justice system. Well, it's so important to bet on alternative forms of housing. The government has set up a probationary system with electronic control, which – I must point it out – was very critical to the right. However, the form of compensation has been a major success both for the jurisdictions and in order to increase the settlement capacity: by the end of 2011, nearly 5,500 sentences had been applied for incarceration with electronic footlinks. About 3,000 have already implemented the penalty in this way. Of these, only 135 have been transferred to prison following breaches of the rules. The central government of criminal services has recently sent a capacity plan with unit structure for prisons and voluntary care agencies at the hearing in criminal services. The plan assesses the capacity of criminal services in terms of future needs, effectiveness and how best to facilitate the implementation of criminal penalties in line with the effective reporting of crime. We have had great success in building down the reconciliation queue and betting on alternative forms of reconciliation. Now it's important that we take these experiences into account in a coherent plan for the future. Norwegian courts are among Europe's most effective, and the government wants them to remain. The Ministry of Justice is therefore closely monitoring the development of the range of cases and the length of proceedings of the courts. A key factor in maintaining the effectiveness of criminal proceedings is to invest in modern forms of work. That's why we have, among other things, increased use of videoconferencing equipment and access to the use of remote meetings in courts. Effectiveness in the justice sector is also about thinking in the long term. This government has therefore taken responsibility for launching large necessary investments such as the acquisition of new rescue helicopters and the development of new safe and secure emergency networks. We should not forget the victims either. The government has done a great deal to strengthen the situation, including the situation. by extending the right to an aid lawyer and compensation for victims of violence. I record that the representative Dahl chose not to touch the immigration field. It is an area where targeted policies, particularly in the form of large-scale ICT investment, have led to more efficiency and better solutions for users. Getting the most out of the resources in the justice sector is ongoing work. I am pleased that the opposition is also concerned about this. It is a realistic approach, for safety and preparedness costs. The debate should be about – and here again I am pleased to see the interpellant – how together we can get the most security out of the money that is granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e664	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good that we are on track – all parties – to spend the money more efficiently, but I think it might be an idea that we are just as careful to have political goals for efficiency improvement as we are using money. When I entered the Stortinget in 2001, I was placed in the Control Committee. It was very fascinating to see how the whole Storting spent three months discussing what we were going to spend on the money in the future, while you spent three hours discussing what you had spent the money for, and why it went wrong. I think that also applies to the justice sector. We have a wide range of national audit reports in our field that show that coordination and coordination have been too poor also in terms of profit-criminalism and organised crime. As far as the cows are concerned, it is quite right that they were long in 2005. The government's goal was to remove them, and it did it. But then that was the cost of it. The cost was to get a trade union that went to political strike. They believed that the costs of implementing this reduction have become too high for them in terms of the working environment, the pressure they experience, and violence against employees. Now, when we see that the settlement queues are on the way up again, and I record that the project to wind up the settlement queues has been restored – probably for some reason – you don't have the same tools this time, without building more prisons, like the ones you could use under Knut Storberget. I had five questions that were partially answered. I felt that when it came to the issue of balance in the criminal case chain, the Council of State actually repeated what is a bit of a system challenge, namely that it is planned from year to year, and if it is planned over several years, it is done for each part of the criminal action chain – it is not done in a context. So I could imagine asking the question one more time: will you look at better methods of analysis and measurement of what the effect, for example. by increasing the police effort means? Because when Stortinget grants 100-150-200 million. I'm not sure if you have the optimal planning tool today. As far as criminal law is concerned, the challenge, as many in the criminal services themselves point out, is that they are under-explored – too little is known about each programme, and perhaps too many programmes are available. For the implementation of the biggest message on the content of the deposit: there are a lot of people asking if it is possible to implement at all. It's not the intentions that a broad majority of the population was behind, which is the problem, but it's simply the possibility of implementing it with the planning tool we have today. For civil servants: Is the Council of State open to give them more tasks, and, if so, which one already sees? Then there is a question of the possibility of more responsibility for health services in terms of legislation, budget and child protection in the light of police assistance tasks, which take a great deal of resources from other police work today. At the end of the day, is the Council of State open to draft a call for proposals on improving the efficiency of the justice sector, which sees the justice sector as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e685	How to ensure a good balance in the criminal justice chain has a continuous focus in the Ministry of Justice – knowing that we are putting on a proper balance between strengthening the police, strengthening the courts and the criminal justice system, so that we do not develop unnecessary bottlenecks, is absolutely central. I think the use of analyses will be increasingly used, but where it is still not possible to remedy everything in terms of reality, districts, and from the professional resources available to you. It's also important to bring it with you. I am dedicated to making efficiency gains visible. However, I see it as very central that efficiency gains are also used to develop better quality solutions, so this is not just about saving crowns, but also how to improve quality. We are now working to make the best possible way of seeing how this is being done in the forthcoming report on the performance reform. We will also follow up the evaluations and not least the 22nd July Commission in the cold water of 22 July and will also be able to return to these kinds of issues there. As far as criminal justice is concerned, I have to correct it. Crime now shows that the settlement queues are going down, so we don't have a bad picture of the situation there. I think some of the point is that we've used alternative forms of reconciliation, and that we're constantly working to make sure that a good content in the ransom is central. The efforts the volunteers represent, I think, are very important. After visiting the Sliding Island, which is an open prison, just a couple of days ago, I have met the first prison with a friend union and a voluntary effort of my own that has given better settlement conditions to the prisoners in a way that is very much respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e696	There are major and important issues raised by the interpellant. It could have been the theme of a very good seminar. There's a lot of things we could discuss there. In a five-minute post, I need to focus on a couple of issues, and I want to start with the very basic thing to get effective use of the resources, namely how the sector is managed. Looking at the list of measurement criteria we use for the police, I would point out that some of them – we have discussed it often in the Justice Committee – are far too narrow, for example. to measure the number of drugs produced, the number of road traffic offences and to track down on that type of target a little too concrete and too narrow case issues, while I believe that it is better to look at measurement criteria that favour good and effective management, for example. the extent to which the police district produces out of time in visible police work per 100 employees — i.e. the type of measurement criteria that show something about how to put the form of work in order to get the most out of resources, e.g. the amount of time spent in each police district for internal organisation, bureaucracy, meetings, etc. My experience is that there are very big differences between police departments in terms of efficiency, seen in such a light. There are also issues of cooperation between police districts, the creation of good common forms of cooperation, such as: as has been done in the case of mobile profit criminals, where individual police districts do not necessarily get so much out of it on their slightly narrow performance criteria, but which are very crucial for us in achieving good resource use. So I think it's very important for us to stress that the issue of measurement criteria as a management tool in terms of efficiency becomes very crucial when that result reform comes. I would also like to point out with regard to the governance of these agencies that there are some specific issues relating to the achievement of results and to demands for leaders, which are in the constitutional form itself, given how police officers are employed, the independence of the courts, etc., and which create specific issues regarding how to manage the systems. For example, what has come about is that the incentive salary of the police officers is almost an automatic ingredient in their wages, rather than being linked to real performance around real measurement criteria, is a matter that should be improved absolutely if there is any point in the incentive wage. I also believe that Stortinget should look at its governance vis-à-vis our establishments. We address issues that require increased resources in terms of bureaucracy, control and systems to be built up internally in the police, for example. with regard to the Police Register Act, where extensive police systems are required to obtain registers and new rules for deletion, etc. in place. We are imposing new tasks on the police, but we may not be fully aware of how much is being tied up by resources internally. The same applies to the processing of traffic data, which we have recently treated in relation to the Data Storage Directive. The same applies to our demands for more training, which we make related to preparedness, for example. after the evaluation of 22 July. I believe at all that we should be careful how we define the police's tasks in relation to what resources we then commit. I also believe that it is important for us to be open to each other's conversion proposals, efficiency proposals. We from the government parties have brought up one conversion in the sector that was linked to civil protection obligations and that parts of the opposition were opposed. We have addressed the question of new forms of organisation in the relationship between the police reserve, the HV and the civil defence, which were also met with different reactions. We have worked with electronic housing as an important conversion. We have been working on the reorganisation of the UDI and the police, which are part of the efficiency and conversion of police duties. I therefore think it is important for us at Stortinget to be open to each other's proposals in terms of conversion and efficiency improvement, in order for this debate to be real.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e711	Let me just start with a brief comment related to the interpellation we have left behind, as I have been confirmed and documented that the Council of State, the Government and the Directorate are now working on a different coverage formula. So now there are budgeted posts from the register to the FAD that will be used to reach 2 to 1000. These are new assumptions. I quote from 2008, where the majority said clearly: ‘you want to raise the level of police coverage of two officials per year. 1000 inhabitants’. So two to one thousand have to be concentrated on officials and women, not on cleaning officers, canteen officers, etc., which the FAD figures include. They can probably do a very good job, and they probably do, too, but in order to secure society, I think it's limited what this staff can do in that way. That is why the Progress Party will already signal that we are adjusting our target to 2.2 per 1 000 inhabitants, in order to meet the real need we have. Otherwise I have to commend the interpellant, because this interpellant is perhaps the most important of all, and I hear that both the interpellant, the Council of State and not least the representative of Bohemia are making a lot of good contributions to the debate. By and large, we've heard it before, there's been talk about it from all sides, and then we're going to hope that words become action. Because I also think that it looks up to the interpellation that we have already committed today in relation to police coverage, is an important step we can take within the criminal justice chain to make us more effective – get out more annual works and become more effective. But then I have to be allowed to say that I'm becoming a little skeptical when the public sector is going to be investing in ICT. The experience is not very positive, at least not in these days – you can mention Altin, you can mention Nav. The Committee met with the Judicial Association last Monday and received strong concerns that this is now in the process of resolving legal certainty. So you have ICT systems that don't have backup, and you make sure to write manually so that you don't lose hearing and important protocols in relation to what's on ICT. It's dramatic, and of course it shouldn't be like that in 2012. In a country that boasts of an unparalleled economic power, in a country that boasts of investing heavily in higher education and research, in a country that claims itself to be far ahead of technology, we thus have systems within all, most public institutions and sectors that do not. Then I want to remind you that on 19 March we became only 5 million people, while we record that countries with tens of millions of inhabitants, even hundreds of millions of people, are doing things to create systems and structures that serve their inhabitants in a completely different way than what we do. So you might want to ask yourself the question: what's wrong with Norway? What are we going to do to make ICT more effective? But then there's also a lot of other things we can do to become more effective, not to save, but to get more out of the funds that we give up in the different sectors. It goes on structure, and my experience, having been on the Stortinget since 1997, is that in this room you don't dare to talk about structure at all. There may be municipal structure, county structure, police districts, the number of courts, the number of prisons, etc. I certainly believe that if we dare to enter into this debate and put structures, the number of institutions, and remove the demarcation, I am absolutely sure that we will be significantly more effective within the criminal justice chain than what we are today. Then we also have to accept changes in a training course in which to recruit, and given the tasks of individual institutions and agencies. I believe that it is equally important now to go into the police and look at the division of tasks. I said that in my previous post – the police have a number of tasks that quite others can handle. The same applies to our Norwegian courts. So I think that if we're able to follow up this interpolation, and maybe here is trying to get a common sense of reality that it's a year's work to pick up within that image, we can also quickly make decisions, so that we can speed up reaching the goal we all have in relation to 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e724	Thanks to the interpellant for raising a fundamental and important issue related to the field of justice – and not just the field of justice. When the Justice Committee is out visiting the justice sector, we meet almost exclusively proud police, judicial and criminal officers, who know that they are an important piece and make a big difference and an important job in respecting the fundamental democratic principles and ensuring the rule of law, and they know that the overall development of society is actually dependent on our having fundamental security in place in society. So there's a lot of good reasons we as justice politicians meet when we meet the agencies, reasons for budget increases from that perspective, and what the interpellant does is just to take the positive momentum that we face in the sector, but at the same time to bear in mind that we also have to ask the important control questions. The previous speakers, and not least the Council of State, have pointed to many key issues in this regard. That's what I want to do. How do we focus on crime prevention work is a control issue. What is the impact of crime prevention? In a hectic everyday life in the police, it may be a little too easy to downgrade prevention in order to deal with current issues. But we would like to have figures showing the effect of crime prevention as a basis for decision-making in the justice debate here in the United Kingdom. The representative, Mr Bøhler, was also concerned with the measurement criteria that the Stortinget – and perhaps, above all, the Riksadvokat – used to assess the police’s efforts and results. For approx. A year ago, we debated the exact same thing, during the process of the paper on the fight against organised crime. A total increase said that we met with the Ministry’s review of the measurement criteria, both in order to catch up on more issues, and in order to become more focused in the fight against crime – an important theme in the context of this interpellation. We also need to look at the criminal care and rehabilitation work that is going on there. Can we get the maximum impact of the resources provided by criminal justice? We need to ask critical questions, including from the Grand Duchy, about established procedures and structures in the justice sector, as the chair of the Judicial Committee was concerned. We need to see if it is possible to bring more good forces to the ground in the fight against crime and in the fight for even better rehabilitation, including. by increasing the use of volunteers — for prevention police, for courts to look at the possibility of continuing the model we have with the conflict councils and the use of so-called large meetings, where there is widespread use of volunteers, and in criminal matters. So this is about the rehabilitation work and the increased use of volunteers, where maybe we can get even more of the resources that we from the Stortinge grant to the sector. We need to look at the interfaces in the justice sector: the interface between police and courts, expressed by increased balances, which have a high human and social cost. We have the interface between the courts and the criminal justice system, expressed through the accomplices. One is now beginning to get worrying reports that the cows are increasing. It has great social and human costs. My point with regard to the pride we face in the justice sector – and there we all have a common political responsibility – is that we also have a culture of change in place, so that we benefit even more from the resources and achieve the results we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e743	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for a good enough interpellant, but I might like to thank you most for a good debate – so far. In the 2010-2015 police strategy, the Police Directorate notes that policy responses are scarcely resourced and that they should be used primarily when the tasks require such competence. They also want to develop effective interaction patterns with other actors and services. Are there any tasks that the police do as of today that can be delegated to others in order to make better use of police competence, without jeopardising the legal certainty of citizens? That's the central question, and it's interesting to hear how far the department has come to work on the matter. Today's debate has already raised many important points, but there is one point that, for me, is the most central one, and it is about prevention. It's about preventing crime, so the police don't use resources on it. Perhaps the most important point in terms of prevention, or at least what I think is the easiest thing to do about, is on tipping policy, on drug policy. I would like to take from the Commissioner's letter of consultation on the changes to the alcohol law. In this Chamber – at least in this debate – we agree quite a lot, and what is repeatedly the argument that is going on in this type of debate is that we have to listen to the police. The police are clear that we should react differently. I'm going to start with the chief of police in Westfold, who says that most of the violence – over 50 pst. – takes place between midnight and noon. 4:00 p.m. to Sunday, and most of it happens after 4:00 p.m. 2nd@item: inlistbox In Troms, the police chief says that from 2000 to 2007, there were 70 acts of violence, and 60 of the cases took place between midnight and midnight. 6 a.m. - Most people between midnight and 6 p.m. 4th@item: inlistbox So does the Salten police chief. Everyone points out that alcohol is the big challenge. When the municipality of Bodø expanded its turnout times, the police had to increase the staffing at night, with the result that fewer hours of work were available at daytime, says the Salten police chief. This is not new knowledge. Furthermore, the letter of consultation reports that when Trondheim narrowed down the timings, the opposite is reported. From 1 October 2008 to 1 October 2009, there were 246 acts of violence there, compared with 335 years earlier – a significant decrease. Think of how much it saves on human suffering and police resources. SIRUS has also gone in and looked at this. In 18 Norwegian cities, between 2000 and 2010 there was a decline in violence in the cities that have reduced the turnout time by one hour, at 17 p.m. In those cities that have expanded the tipping hours by one hour, there has been an increase of approximately Same thing. I am surprised that we cannot listen more to the police in this matter. This is perhaps one of the most effective means of making more efficient use of the resources in the police. But it's also about control. It's about strict instruments for violation of the law. We got examples from Juvente, who conducted a test that showed how easy it was to buy alcohol for minors, etc. I spend a lot of time on it, but I think it's a topic that's too important not to be mentioned in this debate. Other actions that are important to the Christian People's Party and that have been mentioned – I just want to touch it briefly – are ICT systems, to get an effective and better handling of issues. A brief input: there are several public institutions working with ICT systems, and the Council of State must be concerned that there is a whole and coordination, that there is a cooperation between all ICT investments made by the public. Then the debate on tasks that can be solved by civil servants is important, and also the cooperation with civil society. I think it's great that the interpellant and the Right also lift it up, because that's what we were in the middle of it, that's the Nordic model, that we have a strong civil society and see the importance of it. It's great to be able to use those resources. Then it is important to look at which tasks can be done more centrally, rather than via local volunteer offices. Finally, I would just like to warn you: any improvement in efficiency with regard to the closure of canning offices is also not sensible, but looking at the structures is the Christian People's Party willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e764	Now there is a real effort in good suggestions here, and it really underlines the Right point, that we may need a big message of efficiency. It has something to do with the angle of incidence of what we're doing, because grossing-up messages are traditionally about what to spend more money on. Here you can actually use a good part of the proposals together to see how you can get better services by using the money funst possible. Like Per Sandberg, I would like to state that there are two police officers per thousand who must be the assumption in the future. So when the performance reform is to be presented, I hope that we have learned from the experience we had in previous police reform where the assumptions were not met. We must also have a debate in the future on the working time of the police that they are present at the times when things actually happen. Then, throughout the public sector, we need to have a debate on retirement age, including in the case of special age limits. Because police too are living longer. A lot of cops have other jobs after they've retired from the police, and then they'll find models that make it possible for people to stay longer at work. So to this with prevention: in the 22nd of July committee on the Stortinget there were two points – items I and II – that were adopted, for which the Right is very pleased. It was to evaluate the impact of SLT cooperation and the police councils. The reason we're happy about that is because we've suggested it before, and we've been voted down. But that's not the main point. The main point is that there is a focus on prevention, that you actually manage to gather all the good forces to prevent crime as early as possible. What we know is that when the police have operational challenges, it's the prevention that first loses, because it doesn't measure the police. The challenge of the measurement methodology used is that the police officers go to the local authorities and boast of the percentage of information and processing time. These are important points, but they're not measured by anything that might be the most important thing, namely, to prevent people from becoming criminals at all. Crime prevention has a job to do in terms of drug use. There we should have a future debate on LAR treatment, how to actually deal with abuse by reselling the drugs you receive. This creates major challenges for prison staff. The role of volunteers we have to have a fundamental debate on, because there are many organisations that spend NOK 200000 in administrative costs to get NOK 300000. There are questions: is it the role of volunteers to ensure that we have bureaucrats to process applications, or is it the role of volunteers to do a job? In general, this applies not only to the justice sector, but to the whole, where you apply, to projects by project, and then you have to provide evaluation reports for the project, and you almost don't have time to carry out the project. Finally, an important measure of effectiveness is in fact to consider proposals made by the Christian People's Party to get criminalised ‘legal highs’. It has been seen in other countries that there have been serious problems. I think it's an exciting proposal that we're going to discuss in our group. But it is actually that very much is not counted as drugs, but has exactly the same effects, and is a major problem for Norwegian police and customs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e779	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. An idea virtue is important, especially in this sector, and I feel that there have been many recordings through the debate. I think, unfortunately, that I must disappoint the representative Sandberg when it comes to questions as to whether I have brought a news. I used FAD numbers when it came to the historical increase from 2005, but in terms of police coverage forecasts and what it takes to get up to a coverage of 2,0, I have taken on board the review as of the end of 2011, based on the population forecast that existed then. Then the number of police-trained personnel is declared to be 8,071 – and that's the police coverage you know as over 1.6. So in terms of the efficiency solutions that can be used, and how we ensure both qualitatively good solutions and efficient use of money, we will come back to this in different ways. I am sure that we can also discuss selected areas of the performance reform message that can be useful for this. The interpellant pointed to coordination gains through, for example: major purchasing solutions. I think it's one of those areas that, as an example, deserve more attention. I am also, like the interpellant, concerned about having the broad perspective – i.e. the justice sector and perhaps also beyond – on ICT solutions. We need to focus more on both ICT security and systems that can help solve the problem in the different parts of our sector, not just in terms of the police. It is that the queue now does not increase in criminal custody, but this needs to be focused on every single day. We need to ensure adequate custody, and we also need to ensure that the alternative forms of compensation are used both as intended and as appropriate. We'll have time to come back to this on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e791	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e805	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e814	The Committee is pleased that a very important issue has been raised. The attitude, and the proposition, also contain some minor changes to the criminal law and the criminal law, which I will not comment so strongly on. There is also a little bit about improving the efficiency of the activities of the Supreme Court. With regard to the adjustment of criminal procedural law, this is a result of changes in criminal law. With regard to the main issue, child abduction, one has finally got a case on the table, but I would carefully suggest that the result of voting today might not solve this – or prevent – well enough. There is a step on the way, and therefore we are satisfied that the government has come up with a matter. The undersigned is at least satisfied with the fact that the government parties come slowly, but surely after what has been the intention of the Progress Party in this Chamber earlier. Childbirth is a growing problem and will be a major problem, and will be a major challenge. This is because Norwegian society has become more international. There are several marriages between ethnic Nordics and citizens from other countries, and when you experience a break-up or divorce, it is natural that the conflicts we are familiar with in Norway will also cross borders to a much greater extent. Therefore, it is important, mainly for the sake of children, that the Norwegian authorities and the Stortinge are close to this issue. But like I said, I'm not so sure we're doing enough today. The government wants to impose penalties on parental responsibility, but unfortunately, I don't think that's enough. For the most important thing, the contact is with the child. It is this association that the child is entitled to, that must be protected, and then it does not necessarily have to be parental responsibility. Parental responsibility regulates the right of parents to make major decisions on behalf of the child, which is less protective than the child’s right to personal contact with the parent. The Progress Party has previously made proposals for action against child abduction. We have been discouraged, but we see that cutting work slowly, but surely results. In relation to the economic part, we have previously also proposed sanctions against the abductor. The government is still running and investigating – three years after we proposed this. We've also got a new penal code. At the time of its adoption, the Party of Advancement and the Right met on the proposals that the Government has now made. So it's useful. I'll allow myself to quote from Innst. O. No 73 for 2008-2009, where we dealt with the penal code: ‘The Committee points out that in many cases a child-removal abroad will be equally drastic for the child, regardless of whether it is the resident parent or the companion parent who is responsible for the abduction. In any case, the child will be removed from his/her regular surroundings with friends and kindergarten or school. Furthermore, criminal sanctions in Norway will have little or no practical effect when the child is kept away abroad.» Here a joint committee – indirectly – said that it was the association that was to be used when we wanted sanctions to prevent this in the future. But if the Progress Party does not agree with its proposals – which I am thus promoting and the proposals we are with the Right – we will have to come back on later occasions. Then we get to believe and hope that at some point we too are able to get a majority in order that there is association to be founded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e836	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e839	The topic we are debating today is very important. It concerns us all, namely the security we as a society provide to our children. Fortunately, relatively few families experience childbirth, but those affected are hit hard. The consequences are great, both for the child, the family, relatives, friends and acquaintances. In many cases, the whole community is affected. The proposal on which it is based is important and good, because it strengthens the legal certainty of children. Since 2000, over 400 children have been abducted from Norway to abroad. The statistics show that the number of abductions in 2011 declined slightly from 2010 without a sustained trend. There's also reason to think there's a lot of darkness. Too many children are still abducted by one of their parents. And one abduction is, of course, one too much. The law must be designed in such a way as to ensure that the child is cared for. That is why the draft law that we are debating today is a step in the right direction. Now the parent with whom the child lives should also be subject to criminal liability. Abduction is an abduction, regardless of who the child lives with for the day, and the consequences may well be so great – both for the family and the relatives, but not least for the child himself. Strengthening the legal certainty of children is only becoming more important and important in an increasingly international world. Internationalisation has many advantages, but it also creates challenges. Many child abduction cases are complicated because one of the parents carrying out the abduction is a national of another country. As a society, we can never guarantee that such abductions will not take place, but we can strengthen the law and facilitate such action as a result of criminal liability and penalties. There is still a lot of work to secure the life situation of children and to prevent them from being abducted abroad against the will of both their own and the other parent. This strengthening of the law is one step on the way. But we also need to look at the childcare, child and other benefits schemes. Several recent surveys have shown that a parent who abducts his child abroad nevertheless receives support and transfers. It may not be that childbirth does not also have financial consequences. Finally, it is worth remembering that law and criminal liability will not be able to put a final stop to the real problem — that child abductions take place at all. Therefore, we still have to work hard to prevent, inform and inform. This is the main guarantee that the smallest possible child will experience a traumatic abduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e854	Childbirth is serious both for children and for adults affected by it. From a broad legal certainty point of view, the rights of children must always be given priority. The right agrees that child abduction, which has so far been illegal, is also punishable. However, criminalisation is not the only means of preventing child abductions. The fact that the person considering the provision of child abduction knows that the child is likely to be returned to Norway later is likely to be an equally important element in the prevention of abduction. Here, international cooperation, both from diplomacy and the police, is of great importance. The most important thing is that the child is well cared for. As we have heard, the Right Party is in agreement with the Progress Party on the proposal that will make it criminal to prevent association between the child and the parent who has rights of association. We believe that this will help to strengthen legal protection for both parents and children. With the government's proposal, this will still be illegal under civil law rules, but we want it to be criminalised. The right is alone in proposing that the Stortinget ask the government to assess whether the best interests of children are adequately respected in the Children’s Act by allowing persons convicted of abuse or other serious crime to retain parental responsibility for their children. We believe that this needs to be assessed on an independent basis. It is a serious measure to deprive a parent of parental responsibility, yet the best way for children to be taken into account must be more serious than the rights of adults to their children. Although this proposal is likely to be put to a vote, we hope in the Right that the government will evaluate this in any case. I'm bringing up this proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e865	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e868	The Christian People's Party thinks it is very nice that the children's right to contact both mother and father is focused on in this amendment. Unfortunately, too many children are abducted. Abduction cases are often very complex and the main focus must always be on the best interests of the child. It is very important that children have the opportunity to have contact with both mother and father, because these are some of the most central people in their lives. The Children's Convention, by which we are obliged, states that children have the right to direct contact with both mother and father, if that is the best thing for the child. It is therefore important that we make good rules that guarantee the rights of children and that take care of the child’s best interests. As I said, the Christian People's Party is very pleased that children's rights are made visible in this proposal, and we believe that it is equally punishable when parents have shared parental responsibility, to take the child away from the one who has the right to associate with the child. We therefore agree that criminal liability should be extended so that it can also be punished by the parents who live with the child if an illegal abducts the child abroad. It is the child's right to have contact with both mother and father who is the central one here. We believe that the extension of criminal liability will prevent international child abduction. The illegal abduction of children is a major international problem, and Norway should therefore set a good example and have good rules in this area. This will also allow us to put pressure on land where children experience serious human rights violations. The Christian People's Party agrees that the central thing is to prevent children from losing contact with the parents with whom the child does not live. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that criminal liability should not go beyond what is necessary in such cases, because punishment will not necessarily be for the best for the child. In relation to the rules of civil law contained in the Children’s Act, it has protection in relation to abductions abroad from parents who do not have parental responsibility but are entitled to community responsibility. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that criminal protection should not go beyond civil protection. Should the right of association and not parental responsibility be essential for the protection of a person under criminal law, it may in some cases have adverse consequences for the child by the fact that it may be difficult to prove whether there is real association or not. It would be unreasonable for a parent who has had parental responsibility alone if the parent who has previously had no contact with the child should, if necessary, be protected by criminal law if he wishes to move abroad. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the rules of the Children's Act provide adequate protection for those who do not have parental responsibility. Time is a button factor in the illegal abduction of children. It is therefore important to have arrangements that may limit time to preventing the return of illegally abducted children. Under the law in force, the court may grant legal aid to children who are subject to illegal abduction. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that there are good arguments for children who are subjected to illegal abduction to do so automatically. By granting children who have been illegally abducted, automatic entitlement to an assistant lawyer increases legal certainty by having someone who ensures that children’s rights are respected. This seems to be important to the Christian People's Party, and we therefore support the proposal of automatic right to an aid lawyer in the case of the illegal abduction of children. In the case of proposals for loss of parental responsibility, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the Right, asking the Government to assess whether the child's best interests are adequately addressed in the Children's Act as regards the question of keeping parental responsibility after conviction of an offence or other serious crime. Although contact with both mother and father is important, the child’s safety must always be the guiding principle. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that this is a good proposal. The Christian People's Party supports the legislative changes in the proposition. We also support proposal No. 4 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e885	The government proposes to make it criminal for both parents to abduct children abroad. Today, the child can live with him or her permanently, abducting the child without having criminal consequences. The government is not satisfied with that. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal. The legislative proposal follows up the opinion of the Judicial Committee during the examination of Ot.prp. No 22 for 2008-2009 on changes to the penal code. Parental responsibility is essential if you can legally travel abroad with your child. However, the criminality of international child Abduction is currently limited to cases where the cohabitation parent abducts the child. International child Abduction is a current and serious problem. That is why we want to extend criminal liability, so that international child-abduction carried out by the child living permanently with is also made punishable. The consideration of the child means that there is no discrimination between parents in criminal law. The partner parent also has important care functions. Regardless of which parent is responsible for the abduction abroad, the child is exempt from his/her permanent environment. This can lead to heavy loads for the child and for the remaining parent. It is also in the child's interest to have an association with both parents. However, I would like to stress that in some cases it would not be appropriate to prosecute the case criminally, but only follow the civil law trail for the repatriation of the child. In the preparation of the bill, there has been a question of whether criminal liability should be linked to the avoidance of parental responsibility or whether there should also be a requirement for rights of association. In choosing the solution, the relationship between children and parents has been an important factor. A requirement for association may trigger an abduction. It is desirable to facilitate association with both parents, and then it should not be an absolute condition that association existed at the time of the abduction. There are also demonstrable challenges related to a requirement for association. Linking criminal liability to parental responsibility also provides the best link with the underlying rules of civil law. There should be no more criminalisation than what is illegal under the Children's Act. I am here pointing out that the authority to decide to move abroad follows parental responsibility. This solution also harmonizes with the legislation of the other Nordic countries. In any event, it has not been appropriate to attach criminal liability solely to the law of association. We do not propose extended criminal liability for abduction within Norway's borders. Such a solution would criminalise more than what is illegal under the underlying civil law. The Children’s Act states that the residence parent determines where the child is to live in Norway. I'm glad you've seen a drop in the number of registered child abduction cases. There are ten fewer cases registered in 2011 than in the previous year. It is my hope that the amendments will help to prevent more cases of childbirth. In addition, the Government proposes some changes to the Criminal Procedures Act and the Arbitration Act. I am in favour of extending the competence of the Supreme Court Appeals Committee to make substantive decisions during the appeals. I am pleased that a unanimous selection has joined the proposals. In particular, the resource situation in the Supreme Court underpins the proposals. These changes could result in faster procedures in some cases and thus be resource-saving for the parties and the Supreme Court. The proposals could contribute to the greater concentration of the Supreme Court on case-law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e913	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e916	I want from the Right to give praise to the government for having balanced in a good proposal many complex questions that are very sensitive. As the Council of State will see from the vote, the Right has made a proposal asking the Government to assess whether the child's interests are adequately protected if one of the parents is convicted of abuse or other serious crime, and whether the issue of parental responsibility can be linked to that relationship. My question is whether the Council of State at this stage has an assessment of that question. We haven't concluded from the right-hand side. We want to get this illuminated anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e929	I think it is interesting that the representative, Mr. Werp, put a search light on this. This is a demanding matter, as it was pointed out. It is complex, and it is important that we find balanced solutions between parental responsibility, the care of the child and society's tools for caring for the best of children. This is a matter in which several of my colleagues are also interested, and I take with me the wish from the Right and, on an appropriate occasion, will also come back to whether there are instruments beyond what has been proposed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e936	My question to the Council of State is almost a follow-up of the representative of Werp's question. As you can see from the setting, the Progress Party is a little more impatient in assessing the child law, and whether to automatically lose parental responsibility if you commit some serious abuses against your children. I want to connect it to proposal No. 4 from the Progress Party, too. I also hear in this debate that there is a lot of focus on parents, i.e. adults' rights. The proposals of the Progress Party are concentrated on the rights of children. I have to say I like the very bad expression 'best of children'.' I think we have to start talking much more about children's rights. My challenge to the Council of State in this way when she assesses these kinds of issues is: Isn't it children's rights that need to be focused now rather than adults' rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e941	I am pleased with the consensus that is now being demonstrated around that we need a better protection around the child when it comes to childbirth. We also see that these are demanding questions that require other solutions today than what we saw for us was sufficient a few years ago. We work with a view to empowering the justice sector in how we guarantee children and children's rights better in a number of areas. That's why I don't exclude that it might be appropriate to take further steps in this area. But I must be allowed to come back to it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e948	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e953	Just very briefly: in my main post I was not given the opportunity to comment on the proposals No. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party, but we got a little bit about them in the lines. Proposal No. 3 we justify that we have had a number of cases that have actually gone all the way to the Supreme Court, which infringes their demands for both companionship and parental responsibility after some serious abuse of their children. That's why the Progress Party is a little impatient, as I said in the lines, in order to bring about a change in the law here as well, so that it's a breach that after reconciliation must prove to a much greater extent that you can have association with your children or get parental responsibility back. That is why we are linking it to proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox Not only does this happen in child abduction cases, but we also generally see in Norway that, in the case of broken lives and divorces, where children are involved in child distribution cases, unfortunately there is too much focus on parents’ needs and rights. That is why the Progress Party, and we are pleased that the Christian People's Party joins in the proposal, wants an automatic appointment of an aid lawyer linked to the rights of the child and to a lesser extent to the rights and needs of adults in these kinds of cases. Fortunately, it is true, as it has been said earlier today, that one thing is perhaps too much when children are involved, but so far we have at least few such things. Therefore, there is no cost question, nor – it is more about securing the few children who are exposed to this type of traumatic experience. Then I will take the opportunity to signal that if our proposal No. 3 falls, we will subsidiaryly support Right-wing proposal No. 5, if the Right does not want to transmit it. I think the signals coming from the Council of State are now linked to both proposal No. 3 and proposal No. 5 is very positive. And I interpret the answers from the Council of State to that one actually has a desire to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e962	I asked for a brief comment. In the light of the signals given in the debate, the Right wishes for proposal No. 5 – if it is agreed by a majority – is converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e969	Then the President has noticed it and will come back to it during the vote later in the sitting. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e985	It is a unanimous committee that adheres to the government's proposal for amendments to the law called the Data Protection Act. This proposition affects many important areas. Of these, the Committee has chosen to comment on three points in its comments. It's privacy and freedom of expression of minors privacy camera surveillance We have all recorded — and are also part of — the significant increase in the use of the Internet and social media. The benefits are obviously large, including, for example: better access to information and the possibility of getting directly in contact with people with whom you are interested. But there has gradually become a major problem with online personality and vigilance, which needs to be taken seriously. In many cases, the balance between freedom of expression, vigilance and threats is difficult to deal with. The government's proposal for legislative changes balances this and is in line with the Media Responsibility Committee's investigation NOU 2011:12 Freedom of expression and accountability in a new media everyday life. The Committee draws particular attention to the fact that in recent years child privacy has been put under a heavy pressure. It is sad to note that parents who are in conflict, either with the other parent or with the authorities, disclose sensitive information about their children and their family relationships online. This is, of course, a gross violation of the child. It is also problematic that it may be difficult to erase such publications or information once they are on the Internet, and they can in practice pursue the child throughout their life. The Committee therefore considers that there is a need for specific rules that strengthen the privacy of children. Furthermore, the Committee refers to the enormous increase in the number of cameras mounted in the public space as the third point. This can be problematic because the sense of monitoring thus becomes great in many of us. At the same time, we also know that in several cases camera surveillance helps to solve crime and thus contribute to increased security. This dilemma presents privacy challenges. On the one hand, we don't want to be monitored, while at the same time seeing the need for camera surveillance, among other things. to prevent and solve crime. The Committee believes that the government's legislative proposals will protect both privacy and the need for camera surveillance. With these comments, I, as the rapporteur, am presenting the vote on behalf of an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1016	The Data Protection Act implements the EU Data Protection Directive on the protection of personal data in Norwegian law. As we have heard, there is currently work on revising the directive in the EU. On the right, the government’s proposal to update the law is supported, pending further revision work in the EU. A coherent and stronger EU data protection legislation is the aim of the proposal for a regulation submitted by the European Commission on 24 January. The Regulation will replace the 1995 Data Protection Directive. Control of the use of own data for consumers is one of the main points of the Regulation. The legislative proposals contained in this proposal are essentially not affected by the proposal for a regulation. The fraction from the Right shares the Ministry’s assessment of the proposals for legislative changes in the Data Protection Act and the process in the EU with the proposal for a regulation on privacy – it makes sense to adopt the proposed legislative changes now. In my view, this is only one of many issues that well illustrates Norway’s lack of influence as abroad in Europe. While further development of data protection in the EU is now being discussed, we are discussing here in Stortinget what was yesterday's theme in the EU. In the right, it is particularly positive that children’s legal certainty is strengthened. New technology offers new opportunities for those who want to abuse personal data about children. It is important that the legal status of minors be strengthened. Finally, I would like to say on the Right that we are going to support the Left's proposal, which has been presented today. I would also like to point out that the wording is identical to a proposal on the right in 2007, when the matter was discussed last. So the right now supports the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1029	The left will not vote against any of the proposals that are now before us. Our only objection must be that this is the lowest level of privacy protection that can be used, given the expectations of the EU directive. The reason we have put forward our own proposal is that we see that there is more and more use of camera surveillance around the community – and in a rather uncritical way. There is little knowledge and little evidence to show us that camera surveillance increases security in areas. However, for many, this has become a common part of the security system in shops, in businesses and also in private individuals. We think you should have a broader debate about where you want to use the camera and where you shouldn't use the camera. That's why we wanted to shift power in camera surveillance, from state authorities down to municipal authorities. Then you would have had a debate in the local government about the areas in which you think it's okay to use the camera, and in which zones you don't think it's okay to use the camera. A debate would then have been held on how to cooperate on police cameras and private cameras. Then you would have had a debate about which camera it is best to set up, and which one is not. This proposal could also have chosen to use different instruments, such as: fee, to ensure that no more cameras are set up than those you actually need. If you visit business operators, e.g. along Karl Johan, and join the back room, there is a pile of tapes waiting for the police to come and pick up, but the police never pick up. There are a lot of people who have cameras that they thought would provide security, and there are a lot of people who have recorded events that they thought would be evidence, but that are not used at all. So this is frustrating on both sides -- it's frustrating both for us who experience being filmed when we don't do anything wrong, and for those who feel that they film when it's done something wrong, but that it's never used in court. We think it would have been healthy for the privacy debate in each municipality to have a debate about the zones in which it's okay to use the camera, and in which zones it's not good to use the camera. That is why we are promoting this proposal. I'm very glad that the Right supports it, and I hope that this grip does not necessarily lead to a dispute in this room, but that we may have to move the personal protection bat down to each municipality, which I think would have led to a healthy debate. I therefore take up the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1044	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred and which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1060	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1069	Debt problems can crack a human being and follow it out all his life. This can often be resource-intensive people, who never get on their feet again. In this way, society is missing out on useful resources, while a single person with a family and an environment is experiencing a great deal of stress. Socio-economically, society will lose as a worker and a taxpayer, and creditors will not be covered by their claims. The Progress Party has made several proposals in this Chamber with a view to elucidating and sketching proposals for amendments to the legislation on the burden of debt. It is important for the economy to protect the interests of creditors, and we do not want in any way to make it easier for bankrupt and scammers. But today's legislation has room for improvements that benefit all parties, including the creditor. It is also important to focus on the reasons why people are in a debt crisis, and in this debate it is important to focus on the weak position of individuals in the face of tax authorities and their access to justice, as many, after an equation of discretion, never get back on track. Therefore, in 2007, the Progress Party promoted a comprehensive proposal, Document No. 8:16 for 2007-2008. In this proposal, we included: on the following points, which we promoted: we wanted to review public practices and behaviour as a creditor, with a view to creating better, more uniform and more humane practices. We proposed a review of the cases where the public has primacy as a creditor or a pledger, and an assessment of the appropriateness of this primacy. We proposed to merge the various drawdowns in terms of indebtedness with one drawdown and to further establish one indicative common rate of living. The Progress Party further proposed a reduction in the collection fees, a change in the rules so that the deposit for an apartment cannot be taken into account, that arrangements be reviewed in the debt advice market and that the period of the debt regime be set to zero years in cases where debtors have run the industry and most of the debt is commercial debt. Furthermore, a number of other proposals in this proposal for a representative were promoted by the Progress Party in 2007. When the Right now proposes, among other things: the introduction of one minimum rate of living by means of wage and salary constraints relating to local social assistance rates, and the coordination and coordination of all wage and salary rates applied under the law on coverage by one public body, is easy for the Progress Party to join these proposals. These proposals are fully in line with what we promoted in 2007. Unfortunately, the proposals of the Progress Party in 2007 were not adopted, but only annexed to the Protocol. Despite the promise of the government to quickly follow up on the intentions of several of the proposals, very little has been done, and more and more people are having problems with today's system. In the February 2008 debate on the proposal of the Progress Party, then Minister of Finance, Kristin Halvorsen of SV, said the following: ‘I take the floor to stress that the purpose of this Document is to: The 8 proposal and the commitment behind it are shared by the Government, and we are doing an important work on this that involves several ministries." It's been over four years. I want to challenge today's government parties to support and make proposals that can meet some of the challenges for people with major debt problems, rather than just pointing to ongoing investigations and holding people with good talk. Several times, government parties have had the opportunity to support proposals that had improved the situation for a number of people, but each time concrete proposals are voted down by the government parties. There's obviously a big difference between word and action. In fact, changing governments have been talking a lot about the theme in the last ten years, but they've done very little. Here are the few that should have a good conscience. And once again, in this case: when there are concrete proposals, this time from the Right, there will be a lot of talk and little action. It does not help people who have major debt problems. The Progress Party therefore also chooses in this setting to re-examine a number of the proposals we have made in recent years. Unfortunately, I note that none of our proposals are accepted by any other parties in this Chamber, not at that time either. Once again, government parties recommend to attach the proposals of the Right that could help many people, the Protocol. There's only one game left for the gallery. I refer to the suggestions the Progress Party has made in the vote. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party supports the Left's proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber, which I assume will be discussed later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1091	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1094	The representative, Mr Tove-Lise Torve, has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mrs Ljunggren.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1097	It is an important matter for the proposers to bring to Stortinget. Having major economic problems poses challenges primarily for those involved, but also for those around and at the end of the day for society. Some have problems because of difficult living conditions, while others have financial problems because they go into the so - called luxury trap. The main points in this case are, in the view of the Workers' Party, that it is an important principle that those who end up in an economic situation should have the opportunity to settle themselves, and that it is particularly alarming that many young ports are in a difficult economic situation, particularly in relation to consumer loans and credit. But this is not just a problem for young people: there are also very many adults who are struggling with the consequences of a lack of control over their personal finances. However, the extent to which legislation can prevent people from experiencing financial problems is limited, but something can be done, and the government has already done a lot and has started a lot of work. Among other things, work is under way to look at the possibilities of a standardised rate of living by outlays and indebtedness arrangements. The proposal is out for consultation. A wage-earning coordination will be carried out, covering all officials during 2012. The government also assesses the coordination of payments of outlays. In addition, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has launched a project involving both the Consumer Ombudsman, the Consumer Council and SIFO. In particular, they shall consider why the default of payments in young people aged 18 to 25 has increased in recent years. This will be an important work and proposals will be made for further action to be taken. The right is with the government parties in most of the comments in this case. This shows that we agree on most things – and that’s good! The Labour Party believes that the need to review these arrangements that I have talked about in my post is taken care of. We believe that it is appropriate to evaluate the results of these processes before we start new ones. In the light of this, we therefore propose that the matter be annexed to the Minutes. Economic problems have a major impact on individuals, which in turn leads to challenges for society. In principle, the financial situation of each individual is a personal responsibility. Our task is to organise schemes that ensure that fewer ports are economically degraded, and that we get good arrangements that enable individuals to live a worthwhile life even if the economy has gone overboard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1116	The debt problem is going around in the different departments and committees. The representative of the Progress Party said that the last time a proposal was made, in 2008, it was the Minister of Finance who was going to the press. This proposal is based, inter alia, on: the labour and social committee. It has been part of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture’s proposals. It's also the state council there that has parts of the responsibility here. Finally, it has ended up in the Justice Committee. This fragmentation might also say a little bit about what's the problem here. There are many who end up in the luxury trap, but those I and Right are most concerned about are the ones who end up in the poverty trap. The right is concerned not only with solving the poverty problem but with combating the root causes of poverty. In Norway, low income is a symptom of deeper social problems, i.e. that income poverty is too many just a symptom that something else is wrong. There may be drug problems, psychiatric diagnosis, a combination of the two, lack of language skills, lack of connection to the labour market, and not least debt problems. Debt problems are too many one way into poverty, the Nav office and into a spider tissue they never get out of. And of course, for a conservative party like the Right, it's essential to clarify that you have a responsibility of your own. You have a personal responsibility for the debt you assume, just as you have a personal responsibility to take the first smoke or try drugs in some way. If you're going to use that parallel further, it's still that when people use drugs and become addicted to it, even if we say that it's a personal responsibility and a personal choice the first time they try, we're nevertheless taking action to help people get out of it. That's the way it is, too. This is not an attempt to depreciate people the responsibility they have for their own debt burden; it is simply a proposal that allows people to actually get out of debt. It goes without saying that it's completely impossible to make up for yourself in a real way if you end up in the unfortunate situation that someone does, that you actually get pulled more per month than you have in income. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the issues in the Committee. I am also pleased that parts of the solution proposals to the Right, as well as when the Progress Party and some others have joined, are being looked at with goodwill, because even if we agree on the objectives, that does not mean that we agree on when to get there. I think what separates the opposition parties, the Right and the Advance Party in this case, and the positioning parties, is that we are impatient. After all, we've had six years with a red-green government, and there's been too little happening in this field. There are three main issues addressed in this proposal. The first is the coordination of migration agencies. There's a work going on that's positive. I agree that privacy needs to be taken into account. But the message we get from both users, those in debt, and those in debt organizations is that the system still doesn't work well enough. So a lot of people are left with either too little or still getting more than what they have in pay. It is simply a matter of lack of coordination, particularly on the part of the public. The second is whether it should be a norm for what to be left with. It's different from place to place, from bazaar district to district. That's something we should consider looking at. The last one is private credit. I think it's positive that people can get credit, but I think it's unreasonable, or at least it's worth asking the question: is it unreasonable that private creditors can push the risk over to the public, because you know that ultimately you can always get compulsion? That means that the risk of borrowing money is less for lenders than it really is. It can be argued for even those of us who are not afraid of the market, because that is a bad market principle. This means that you lend money to people who don't have creditworthiness, and that helps get people into the debt trap – and then you have the government as the last guarantee agency. In my opinion, that is unreasonable. I find out what the positioning parties say, but I hope we can do something in this field, not least because it is one of the fundamental reasons for the new poverty in Norway. Otherwise, I would just like to inform you that we also support the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1142	It's good suggestions we have on the table today, and it's important topics right-wing. Just as several others have already pointed out in history, there is also a need to point out that the Christian People's Party has made proposals both on something of the same thing and on something that goes more broadly on what has to do with debt. We are pleased that the opposition is bringing pressure to bear. We expect the government to listen, and that something more is happening in the field, because the impatience – as others have pointed out – is great in the Christian People's Party. There are alarmingly many who end up in economic ruin. When you look at the figures and look closely at the statistics, there are alarmingly many young people who are particularly struggling with credit cards, and with the background of it, have fallen into disrepute. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I am concerned that it is important to point out the responsibility of each individual for their own economy – one is responsible for their own choices. This means that it is important that those who have undertaken a commitment, for example: recorded a loan, shall also settle separately. That means that those who choose to use credit cards must be aware of the responsibility. Both lenders and the public can become better at disclosing the consequences. Schooling or education has been a topic that has been discussed many times. It is important that we train people and young people to be concerned with the economic challenges and opportunities of life. It is also important that those who have suffered financial hardship be allowed to settle themselves, in the sense that they can get through the matter. Today one sees that the economic consequences of the elections can pursue a lifetime. We are concerned that you can get through the matter, so that you can get on with it. In the past, we have proposed that more risk should be transferred to lenders. The background for this is – as my colleague in the Labour and Social Committee, Røe Isaksen, also stated – that it is important not only to borrow over a low shoe, but also to impose more responsibility on the lenders, given that they often lend out by means of very aggressive advertising and marketing and also at relatively high interest rates. It is important that an active prevention effort, so that as few as possible get into trouble, is prevented by a build-up — in the sense that when many start to notice that they are experiencing financial problems, they choose not to take the step forward, for example. to Nav, to get the help there that could get an arrangement on how to pay the bills. The consequence is that the starting point gets much worse when they choose not to open bills etc. We know the stories, and the challenges of having gone too far are very big. So that's also the part that I'm experiencing that the proposal from the Right is taking on board today, that is, when you're caught up – how can we get them out of poverty, and how can we get them out of the negative spiral in which they've ended up? Then Christian People's Party supports the proposals from the Right. We're dealing with the example that the representative of the Red Isaac pointed out, that one is being drawn more than what one actually has in wages. It turns out it's impossible to live that way. So a minimum rate of living is a good suggestion. Better coordination between creditors is also a good proposal. In addition to supporting the proposal No. 1-4, we are choosing to support the proposal from the Left, with the background that we have supported the proposal before. It is a good proposal, which takes on board that there are non-governmental organisations that can do a very good job of assisting people who are in financial trouble, or are in the process of facing financial problems. I think the aspect that you can include non-governmental organisations is important to point out. So, an explanation of vote in connection with the proposal No. 5-8. We are not going to support those proposals now. This does not mean that we necessarily disagree with all the proposals, but we experience that proposal No. 4, from the Right, takes into account a lot of the issues that lie in the proposals, and we want a whole thing to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1161	There are a lot of myths related to the term ‘debt’. There's a lot of myths about how people get into debt problems, and there's a lot of images of who it is that gets into debt problems. When I worked on this matter, it struck me how many of the myths turned out to be crazy. When, for example: For people who get into debt problems related to credit cards, very few of them would have been in trouble if nothing had happened after they incurred the debt. At the time you cash the credit card, you can manage that debt, but then something happens all of a sudden. It's about you, for example. are on holiday and may be a bit extravagant, because you think you deserve it. Then you take up the credit card and use it a little bit extra, but when you get home, your job is suddenly changed, or suddenly your marriage breaks up, or suddenly something else happens in life that you hadn't foreseen. And then you get into debt problems! Most people, when they incur debt, especially related to credit cards, do it at some point when they manage it, but then all the unforeseen things happen in life. Debt problems, which are also linked to poverty problems, often arise from people being unlucky, sudden changes in life, which means that you cannot manage what you thought and had a plan to manage. That is why combating debt problems is an important part of not just our economic policy – ensuring that people are able to settle their debt. It is also about all the problems that people face — psychological and physical — by having such debt problems hanging over them. It's often very complex as well. We, who work a lot with small entrepreneurs, also see very often that they can start their small business with their good idea. They spend a lot of time succeeding, they fail, and then they get into big debt problems. So this is a lot more complex -- not just guilt and shame. That's why it's important to show creativity to try to fight this problem and try to pave the way for all those who are so unhappy to end up in it. That's why the Left believes that many of these proposals are very good. We are going to support the proposals No. 1–6, and we would like to address our own proposal that we have made in the past, to create a CCCS system in Norway, too, according to the model of what you have in the United Kingdom. It's a voluntary system where you get banks and creditors to go together and create systems that make people get good payoff plans. We have to remember that when people really get into debt problems, this ball has it over time. If those who get this one credit card bill that they start struggling with had good people to help themselves and make plans for it, it would usually have gone well. But it's when debt balls go on, you get a lot of creditors in different places, you don't get this coordinated, and you don't get good plans for paying off, it's then -- for us who've been trying to help people with debt problems -- people come with plastic bags with window envelopes. That's when you should have good people to help you a lot earlier. The CCCS is the system that allows them to put you down with that bag of window envelopes, open everything, create a system and get a plan and order your life again. That's what this is about. This has been a good initiative. That is why I am addressing our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1174	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1177	I think we all share the concern for those who end up in debt. The government is therefore also committed to improving the situation of people experiencing debt problems. The government has launched both measures to encourage people not to incur unmanageable debts, and measures to spare the debtor from an unreasonable indebtedness of the creditors once the debt has become unmanageable. There are limits to what governments can do to prevent people from taking on a lot of debt. The individual citizen has a responsibility to manage his own economy and does not incur more debts than one has the ability to serve. I am therefore happy to include, among other things: The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Consumer Ombudsman have launched training, information and awareness-raising activities. In the following, I would like to make a few comments on the various points in the draft representative. Firstly, on the issue of establishing a standardised rate of living by outlays and by indebtedness, I agree with the majority of the Judicial Committee that it is problematic that different officials base different rates of living. The government has therefore already taken this into account. The question has recently been assessed by a cross-ministerial working group recommending the establishment of standardised rates of provision for living by outlays and indebtedness schemes. The consultation on the report of the working group has just been completed and will be followed up mainly by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. With regard to the proposal to investigate a scheme such as that in Sweden, where all wage trends are coordinated and coordinated by one body, I would like to point out that in 2004 there was a solid majority on the Stortingen to maintain the organisation of the general scale. In my view, the assessment of the need for any organisational changes should take into account the gradual introduction of a wage coordination system from 2005. In the near future, this will include all the public. When considering this, and considering that standardised rates of living are under assessment, I agree with the view of the majority of the Committee that it is reasonable to wait to consider any new measures. With regard to the question of the access of the public to decide how to interpret private financial institutions, I would like to point out that for many individuals, the most important – and perhaps the only – cover item that can ensure creditor coverage in the event of a default is the payroll. If you close the creditor's access to this particular cover item, a notable group of individuals is likely to simply be excluded from credit on the open market, or at least this could lead to an increase in the cost of unsecured loans. In this context, it must be taken into account that ordinary citizens without decent pledges to offer often also have a legitimate need to raise loans and have sufficient income to serve them. I note that the members of the Committee from the Right point out that financial institutions do not need to make a real assessment of the ability of borrowers to pay. Financial institutions have a deterrent obligation under Section 47 of the Financial Contracts Act, but I also see that some institutions may still have too low a threshold to issue loans. Just as fully, I believe – based on what I have just said – that it is a dangerous way to go to close the pay gap as a cover item. So to the proposal to review other rules relating to the debt regime, coerciveness and adjoining provisions. In my view, there is hardly any need for such a comprehensive review of the provisions relating to the default of debt that is addressed by the proposers. It seems more fruitful to focus on the processes already in progress. I refer here to the system of coordination of outlays and the work of assessing general rules on provisions for living. In addition, debt recording schemes are considered. The purpose of such a scheme will be to help prevent individuals from being given the opportunity to take on large amounts of debt. In addition, rules on coordination are also assessed on the payment of outlays, which could lead to a more flexible implementation of outlays than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1205	I'm very happy that the government says you take these issues seriously. There are many people — and more and more people — now in a difficult situation, for many reasons. I am therefore a little disappointed that the government does not want a complete review, but says that you have to pay attention to what you are currently working on. There are a lot of people who have been busy getting a total review of this system -- it's debt advice, it's debt records or getting a review of how the debt collection industry acts, and how the public acts as a creditor. The Debt Victim Alliance is inter alia: an organisation concerned with it. I have met with Juss-Buss, who is very concerned about it, most recently today, and are meeting more and more people who have major problems. Why this opposition in the government to the proposal from the Right, which the Progress Party has advanced in the past, about a total review in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1214	The government is very concerned about measures that may work in a difficult situation for the person concerned. I went through what efforts are already going on, and what improvements have therefore been made, which I think is something that can help them. If we now sat down and carried out a full review, and then after assessing what measures might work, I am afraid that we allowed additional time to go to play in a situation that is important to address effectively in order to help solve the problems that individuals have encountered.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1219	It is nice to hear the Workers' Party talk about the need for easy access to credit. I don't think it's always been like that. But the Council of State has an important point, which I fully agree with. The proposal has a – what to say – humble wording, and that is on purpose. This is a proposal for the government to consider «review». There's, of course, a point that even people without real estate or things they can have collateral in, should have the opportunity to take up credit. We are also aware that there is a deterrent obligation, but it is not difficult to find examples that people who are obviously not creditworthy have not only one credit card, not just two, but three-four-five-six credit cards. My point and my right point has been that the risk is so small because you have this coercion agency, that is, the public in a way as a guarantor. If you do not want to go into that proposal, how will the Council of State ensure that credit card companies are held liable?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1229	This is one of the reasons why I underlined the deterrent obligation of financial institutions, in combination with several preventive measures. I think it's important to have both knowledge and attitudes related to keeping order in your own economy. However, when I also pointed out that having a fixed income is, in fact, an important basis for raising credit for many people, it is with knowledge that other and stricter requirements for both capital and capital items were imposed, that is something that could primarily affect ordinary people. It may be a bit more demanding to understand from a representative from the Right that it is important for everyone to deal with. But I understand that there is still a great deal of consensus about the content of what needs to be done, and I hope that the measures that are now in place are in the best interests of those who have a good deal of debt. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1236	Time's up, Councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1239	It is possible that it is easier to understand the credit card companies of the Workers' Party. In that case, there is a new position that the government parties have taken in Norwegian policy – but they have about it! The questions are – there are two very short and simple: Does the Council of State think that the obligation to withdraw is working today? I saw the government council nod instead when I mentioned e.g. that people could get four-five-six credit cards – we know that from stories in the press. And if it doesn't work today, how is the Council of States supposed to make sure it actually works? This is not least about protecting ordinary people as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1246	I therefore believe that it is a common concern of both the representative of the Red Isaac and the government to ensure that the deterrent obligation is handled as best as possible. It would surprise me if it is not a strong improvement potential considering what is the case today. However, this must be done in combination with, as I said, preventive and awareness-raising measures. I don't have to repeat myself, but this is central. Just as far as credit card companies are concerned, I think it is very important that we keep an eye on how this obligation to withdraw is handled. It is – now I have to re-establish the papers – in the Financial Agreements Act that this deterrent is included, and we have to make sure that it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1251	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1267	I have promoted this interference because I feel that the way we, as a nation, manage one of the most important national resources is unsustainable. If we're going to discharge our responsibility to produce food, we can't continue to destroy the most important prerequisite for food production, the food soil, as we've done in recent years. I feel a personal and serious responsibility for calling out a warning against this development that has shot speed in my generation. There is simply a lack of management responsibility from a generational point of view. Despite clear objectives and reinforced measures to slow down development, the country’s best food soil continues to decline at a high pace. Not surprisingly, the pressure is greatest around the largest cities like Oslo, Trondheim and Stavanger. In these regions, we also have some of the best food soils in Norway — yes, in many ways our food tray is. However, since the aim of halving the degradation was set by the Bondevik Government in 2004, the area redispatched year by year has, on the other hand, exceeded the figures. The fresh figures for 2011 show a decline in re-disposal, but in my view, there is no reason to turn to the chest to say that it is satisfied. Rather, you should ask yourself if it is not time to step up your objectives. It is regrettable that the Rogaland County tops the statistics on the most re-disposaling of food resources. In 2010 only this county contributed over 20 pst. of all re-disposals. With its nearly 1,400 decks of built-in area, it means that the county is building down twice as much as the next state on the list, the South-Trunde Team. Also, the fresh 2011 figures place Rogaland at the top of this most dubious list. This county has increased its share of total decline in recent years. In defence, one might say that one adheres to adopted and approved plans, but the decline is faster and more extensive than the central objectives set. Rogaland has major challenges related to strong growth. Unfortunately, many of the best agricultural areas are close to cities, agglomerations and stations. There is no lack of appetite for even larger areas: the regional cooperation body, Greater Stavanger, which has examined municipal housing plans and compared with planned oil and gas investments, believes that housing plans are too defensive. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 1 February of this year, they require more than a doubling of the housing structure in the coming years if the region is not to be set aside as a Norwegian main seat for the petroleum industry. In addition, land needs arise as a result of the urgent need for improved capacity in the transport system. I could illustrate the problem with examples from other parts of the country. In any case, the problem is that some of the best food land in Norway is running out of production at a high rate. I would like to ask the Council of State if it is not time to renew and strengthen the objective set in 2004, to halve the degradation of food land, not just to continue this goal, as the government has mentioned in the agricultural communication. It doesn't seem very ambitious. Good objectives and increased use of instruments have not been able to prevent this development. On the other hand, I would like to commend the Minister of Agriculture for showing his willingness to use available instruments in the new Planning and Building Act, such as: national planning expectations and possibilities for the State to restrict the free movement of local authorities in this area. He has signalled active use of the instruments in existing legislation. It will be interesting for Stortinget to know more about what such an active line will mean in practice, and what results the council expects of it. But my question is whether this is sufficient with the developments we see, especially in the parts of the country I was in. The same question, I suppose, must have been behind the Minister of Agriculture's proposal to allow the permanent protection of the best food soil through a new provision in the law on soil – it was sent to the hearing in 2009. Many welcomed that proposal, but, as expected, it met with considerable resistance, not least among the municipalities. An appropriate comment on this is the old word that you get answers as you shout in the woods. Any proposal for a law that is to some extent designed to restrict municipal freedom of action will, of course, meet the opposition of the municipalities, but there is in itself no reason to put it aside. The question is whether the Council of State has now put this proposal away permanently, or whether he might consider taking it up again in some form. In municipalities, decision-making powers have been exercised in most of the cases under agricultural law from 1 January 2004, including land laws. Government bodies have been able to exercise control over municipalities both under the Law on Planning and Building and under the Law on Land and Land and they have had overall authority under the Administrative Act. If, in addition, one had a legal basis for the protection of cultivated soil in the soil laws, the King could give valuable food resources status as a soil protection area. I ask, is it relevant for the Council of State to continue working on such a specific legal protection, so that the very best food soil can be better preserved, or has he given up this permanently? Regardless of this question, the Christian People's Party is currently working on a proposal for the constitutional protection of food resources. It would be of interest to know whether the Minister of Agriculture sees the importance of such a constitutional protection. In this context, the question can be put as follows: Does the current legislation, administrative practices and planning system, in sum, provide for a faster reduction of the best food soil in Norway than we really want, should not the reassessment of these instruments be carried out? Of course, it's not about banning redisposal. It is sometimes imperative to allow such redisposal in order to ensure the preservation of other vital social interests. But based on the results of the policy, we must at regular intervals, I kept saying, literally stick our finger in the ground and ask who should have access to redispatch to what extent. Is it possible to shift re-disposal facilities up to a level of administration to ensure a more comprehensive assessment of these types of cases? On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have also called for those who want to re-disposal of cultivated land to be faced with more real socio-economic costs of degradation. This can be done by requiring the regeneration of the corresponding area, and sometimes even of the double area. Another solution may be that the builder has to pay into an incubation fund that can provide the basis for taking new areas into food production to replace those that go out. This will force more real considerations as to whether the proposed reduction is actually imperative for general reasons. I would also like to mention that during the work on this interpellation, I have received many expressions of frustration among farmers who claim that new protection concerns are increasingly becoming an obstacle to new cultivation, for example. of ants. All in all, we have to be willing to ask ourselves questions about whether we can have as high ambitions for food production as the agricultural message adds, if we are not willing to take better care of the production base that lies in the food soil. It's a paradox that, in practice, we seem to have a stronger protection for certain areas of renewable forest than we do of food soil, which once it's built down is not renewable, not to talk about if we compare it to unproductive beach areas. Let me conclude by pointing out that of course it is not that all solutions to this problem are in a stronger protection and a more restrictive policy. It is not difficult to see that urbanisation and population growth cause growing pains that need to be addressed with positive instruments. Of course, the focus of the planning system on coordination of land and transport planning is important here. In my opinion, 1993 national policy guidelines are ripe for revision. Strategies for the consolidation and willingness to build higher in populous areas near collective nodes remain an important strategy. But when you look at the population projections with which it operates in and around the largest cities some generations ahead, it's a question of whether we don't have to think completely new and plan completely new, for example. in new green cities, as Akershus Bondelag illustrated by Snowhetta architects last year. They pointed to a situation in Akershus where Oslo and Akershus will have 400,000 new inhabitants over the next 30 years. 84 pst. of the area in Akershus is something other than food land. With their proposals, the Farm would show that it is possible to use these areas to tackle population growth and stay away from the food field at one and the same time. This is a novelty that may be unhealthy, but which I think will be very attractive thinking for our children and grandchildren. Should not the government cooperate with the local government on this kind of offensive innovation in planning processes? It will, together with protection, show the way to exciting and sustainable growth. It is these more fundamental challenges that I invite the Minister of Agriculture to respond to today in the Stortinget. There are important agricultural debates both inside and outside this house these days, and I am very excited if the government will meet the Christian People's Party in agricultural policy. I also think quite a lot outside this house is waiting for the answer to these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1301	First, I want to thank you for the interpellation. The fight for soil is becoming increasingly important. That's why I'm glad that the theme of soil protection is being taken up from the Storting's pulpit. This is an eternally topical and important topic in the discussion about how we're going to use our land. Providing enough food for a rapidly growing population in an increasingly warmer world is the most important problem we face. The recognition of the scale of the problem is necessary to improve the understanding of the measures needed. We must therefore discuss this challenge in this Chamber – and in all other contexts. We just have to win the hearts of Earth's protection. I see that as one of my most important tasks as Minister of Agriculture and Food. This week we rounded five million inhabitants in Norway, and the growth is greater than we expected 20-30 years ago. According to the Central Statistical Office, population growth is also unique in Europe, and Norway is among the countries with the highest growth rates. Increased growth means increased demand for food, and in such a situation, it is important to take care of the cultivated land we have left, and on which we can produce food. We have limited the cultivation of land in Norway. Under 3 pst. of the land area is cultivated land and only 1,3 pst. are suitable for the production of cereals. Furthermore, the degradation of food soil is an irreversible intervention in a resource that nature has spent thousands of years building up centimeters of centimeters. If such soil is built up, it cannot be reused for food production. This government has worked on an objective of halving the re-disposal of cultivated land. The objective was set by the Bondevik II government, of which the representative Høybräten was part, and has been continued by this government. Since the red-green government took over, the re-disposal figures have shown a clear decline, and we are about to reach the halving target. During the 10-year period up to 2005, an annual re-disposal of 11 400 deches was reported on average. Since 2005, the figures have fallen dramatically. In 2010 it was redispatched approx. 6,700 dekars, and this is actually the lowest number since 1980. As late as last week, as the representative Højbrätten also mentioned, we got a happy news. Preliminary re-disposal figures in 2011 show a further decrease. It's due to a drop of over 9 pst. in relation to 2010. This is the lowest number of redisposals since registration started in 1976. If the final figures we get in June confirm this, we have actually achieved the halving goal. By studying this trend, we can in any case safely say that the measures we have taken so far have worked. But that doesn't mean the job is done. In the communication on agricultural and food policy, which we presented just before Christmas, we have made concrete the halving objective. The aim is now to limit re-disposal to less than 6000 decaries per year. This is, in my view, an ambitious target, taking into account the high figures that existed in the 1990s and towards 2005, and taking into account the enormous pressure of expansion we are experiencing in key areas. Although we've achieved a lot in recent years, we still have to work hard to keep the numbers at a level like this. Despite the decline in the number of redisposals, I am of the opinion that the level of redisposal of the best soil is still too high. This government has clearly signaled a stronger protection of the soil, and we have used a large register of instruments to achieve it. But those who have to do the job are the municipalities – all the municipalities of the country. That's where the responsibility for land management lies. Municipalities can no longer escape this important responsibility. At state level, we have a task to clearly signal what we expect of the municipalities as executive planning authority. We did this, among other things. in two letters dated 2006 and 2010, signed by both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture and Food. These letters were sent to all the municipalities in the country and have been perceived as clear signals of national expectations. The central role of municipalities in balancing different interests and in making good plans was underlined here. The focus was on the halving objective as something concrete to work towards. I think increased attention, as a result of these letters, has contributed to the positive development we've seen. Interpellant is quite right that the most severe degradation occurs in regions that manage the country's best food soil, such as in Rogaland and in the South-Trande layer. Clearly, the challenges are greatest in such areas. To meet this challenge, we have focused on the active use of objections as an important State instrument. The use of objections by the county councillors makes it possible to ensure that important national and regional considerations are taken into account in municipal planning. The Government has ensured that this responsibility is made clear to the county officials. The Ministry of the Environment has supported most of the objections relating to soil protection since this government took over. Several of these measures are input from the Decreased 2007 Working Group, which presented the Climate Change for Soil Protection – a strategy – in January 2008. A number of the proposals presented have been followed up and shape parts of today’s governance. In addition to this, we have also put in place a legal basis for imposing reporting obligations on municipalities of the County of County for decisions on land re-disposal. The Soil Protection Group was also concerned with the emphasis on soil protection in new transport projects. Here the state itself has a great and important responsibility. I am therefore pleased that the consideration of soil protection has been more clearly taken into account in the work on the national transport plan. The interpellant is committed to finding new means of preserving soil protection. In response to this, I would particularly like to refer to the new Planning and Building Act that was adopted in 2009. Several new instruments have been introduced here, as well as the continuation of several of the old and good instruments. One of the new instruments is the development every four years of so-called national expectations for regional and municipal planning. The first expects-to-be document of June 2011 clarified expectations to prevent the degradation of cultivated land. This document also contains expectations for increased densification and transformation of already built areas. The new law strengthens regional planning as a tool, which is positive for soil protection by allowing land interests to be assessed across municipal boundaries. It has also now become possible to develop regional planning to ensure that measures are implemented in accordance with the regional level. Zones of reference are introduced as a new instrument for the visibility of different land interests and can be used by municipalities to ensure soil protection. The conditions for the derogation have been clarified and tightened, so that, inter alia: will be more difficult to re-disposal of land by derogation from adopted plans. The new Planning Act also continues important State instruments in the area of spatial planning. This is something I want to use to strengthen soil protection, and this is also an opportunity that is addressed in the new agricultural message. The Communication states that soil protection considerations should be clarified and strengthened in State plan guidelines, which are a continuation of national policy guidelines. It shall also be considered to establish a separate State planning guideline for soil protection with a geographically differentiated policy. This is a work on which we already cooperate with the Ministry of the Environment. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of putting soil protection on the agenda. If we are to succeed, hearts must burn for soil protection, both at key decision-makers and in all the municipalities of the country. In order to take into account soil protection in practice, we need good planning, we need local involvement, and we need an interaction between all the tools we have. I am delighted with this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1347	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. My question was whether the government will set new and more offensive targets to prevent the degradation of Norway's best food soil, and whether the Council of State is willing to try new instruments to achieve this. I have to say that in the response that the Council of State has given so far, he refers to the objective set – which is, to a large extent, a continuation of the objective set in 2004. He says it has been achieved in and out, if you focus on the one year that 2011 represents. At the same time, he says it's a very ambitious goal. The answer to my first question is therefore no – no new targets are set by this government in terms of soil protection, at least not so far. I am disappointed because I fully agree with what the Council of State said, namely that this level is too high. If the Council of State believes that the level is too high, he should actually set a target for it to be lower – otherwise this is not possible, if it can be said that way in this room. On my question of new instruments, the Council of State broadly refers to the instruments resulting from decisions taken by law in the United Kingdom in 2009. It is possible that it is still new, but I had probably expected that the Council of State had more to point to than what the Stortinge decided three years ago. So the answer to the question of whether the Council of State is willing to try new tools to get this done, is probably also really no. In that case, I'm disappointed in it too. But it is possible that I have misunderstood, so I would like the Council of State to clarify to what extent he is open. Then I repeat my question: Is he open to take up again the proposal he has in his drawer – and which was so good that it was actually sent to the hearing, before it was put into the drawer again – about a protection clause in the laws of the soil, not to protect all the food, but to give the opportunity to protect the best food soil we have here in the country? With regard to the use of the instruments, which are, of course, new to the 2009 new Planning and Building Act on State Planning Guidelines, does this mean that the Council of State is prepared to revise the cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, which he has now pointed out, with regard to the old national policy guidelines, which provide for the possibility of redeploying large-scale grain mills around station cities, with a walking distance of 1 km? It's a walking distance for some people, but hardly for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1362	I thank you for the questions. I just want to stress that I believe that the recent agricultural and food report, which is being treated in the Storting these days, reveals ambitious and clear objectives in terms of soil protection, as we both – both interpellant and I – are concerned about. We are dedicated to continuing to work on the framework conditions for soil protection that lie today. We are dedicated to working within the framework of the proposals that include: The soil protection committee was present in due time. As regards the issue of soil protection barriers, it was sent to the hearing, as mentioned by the interpellant, in 2009. Of course, I thought it was a good proposal, and would recommend it if it had received feedback from municipalities, from hearing bodies. But there is nothing to hide that it was very negatively received among a lot of municipalities. Then there are probably various reasons why it was negatively received. One of the points is well – as the representative Højbräten emphasises – that if you introduce legislation that relieves the municipalities of responsibility, you react with spinal reflexes in many municipalities. In any case, it was proposed, and I have then assessed it so that it was not advisable to proceed with this shelter, as it was presented in that proposal. Let me also stress that it was not only municipalities that were negative, but also from the soil protection team, from the Soil Protection Association, among others. in Westfold, there was skeptical skepticism about such a shelter in soil laws, among others. because they were afraid that if the inner fillet was protected or the finest areas protected, there would be greater pressure in other areas. So according to their views, such a shelter was complicated to manage if we wanted to bring down the disposal, as the objective was. In any case, that matter has been put on the agenda. It has contributed to increased consciousness. I am then concerned to see if there are other ways of working, in order to achieve the objective of reducing redispatching below the 6,000 targets laid down in the agricultural and food notification as such. So I would like to point out that the Earth Protection Committee has discussed many different proposals. Many of them we have already worked with and followed up. Many of us have been unsure whether it makes sense to follow up. But I'm concerned to see if there can be new ways to get into that discussion that at the same time gives us the opportunity to achieve the goals, including: the use of economic instruments, including: whether new cultivation may be required in the case of such proposals. We will have to come back to that later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1377	Like the Council of State, I have produced the report that was handed over to the Ministry of Agriculture in 2008, entitled ‘Climate change for soil protection’. Here I have addressed the following: ‘Earth conservation is about securing our descendants the opportunity to grow their own food on their own soil. Production resources are under pressure. Centralisation and high levels of activity in industry contribute to strong urban growth and the need to develop roads and other transport activities. Growth is largely taking place in areas with the best areas for food production and good conditions for efficient agriculture. At the same time, the need for food is increasing more strongly than the growth of production.» This is what today's interpellation debate is about. Our ability to produce food for our own people is more important than ever. Over the past 50 years, more than a million decares of the country's most productive agricultural land have been redispatched for other purposes, and it has been at the expense of the country's most productive soil. This, of course, cannot continue, even though the pressure on agricultural land is high, not least in my own country. We are going to have a restrictive soil protection policy, but neither can soil protection become a coercion that prevents any development. When we build new E18 in four fields, or when we put new double tracks for the railway through a state like Westfold, it's almost not to avoid the loss of valuable food soil. Although municipalities are trying to channel housing and industrial development into areas that are not suitable for agricultural production, we are constantly seeing disturbing examples of good food soil being included for expansion purposes. In particular, this applies to urban and densely populated areas, where the pressure on the food soil is naturally greatest. But everything is not just dark and sad. In fact, as the Council pointed out, this government has managed to halve the loss of cultivated land since the government change in 2005. Compared with the ten-year period before, last year became a positive low in this way. In the recently submitted agricultural notification, which the Stortinget is now dealing with, the loss of cultivated land is targeted at less than 6000 jobs per year, i.e. at the level of 2011. Westfold can in many ways serve as an example of the conflict between soil protection and development interests. Soil protection is now given greater and greater weight, not least as a result of good information work by the Soil Protection Association and the Land Layer in the County. In Westfold is about 20 pst. of the area cultivated – against 3 pst. in the country as a whole. 80 pst. the population lives in towns, which are along the coast, in areas which also make up 20 pst. of the area in the county. Here lies the best soil – and the most attractive areas for housing and business development. This underlines the importance of good and restrictive soil protection. This must be possible primarily through the means available to us in the Planning and Building Act and in local municipal and regional planning. I have limited faith that we will achieve something more particularly with enhanced legislation. It is and will be the local community's understanding of soil protection that becomes crucial for future developments. The increased attention to soil protection has already given good results, and Westfold is an excellent example of this. But it's not just the areas that go along for expansional purposes that worry. 200000 decikers of cereals have been redispatched to grass production in recent years. These are not areas that have left production and have been lost forever and ever, but it underlines the importance of further improving the profitability of cereal production. Finally, I would like to stress the need for new cultivation and recovery of agricultural land that has been lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1401	I would first like to thank the representative, Højbräten, for bringing up an interesting and current case. There's no doubt that there's a lot of good food soil being built down, but the question is what we can do to make the math between soil being built up, and soil being taken into food production becomes a plus for new soil. First, the Progress Party would argue that today’s situation is due to a more or less faulty agricultural policy that has been pursued over the last 30 to 40 years, where each independent food producer has been dependent on the laws, regulations and financial framework of the authorities. Very little has been up to the individual creative farmer himself. There are rules on how much they produce, what kind of food, whether they operate with others, and many, many other regulations. We have laws about who gets to take over a farm, who gets to buy additional land, what the additional land or farm is going to cost – that is. maximum price in relation to the farm’s return – etc. etc. This means that the new creative farmer is not allowed to evolve until what he thinks is best. Some have called Norway the last Soviet country, and in terms of agricultural policy, I am very, very much in agreement with this. We see this as a result when, for example, we see this as a result. sees how many – or should we say how few – farmers we have today. Never before have we had so few farmers, and never before have we had so few farmers who are full-time farmers, and these are the ones we are most interested in – not those who have the farm as a side income or as a hobby. I think you'll be most effective when you have a full-time job. You know the farm and the farm's possibilities and the challenges it has, and so you can get a better result with innovation than if you only spend a few hours on the farm daily, or maybe only ours and the harvest. Nor have there been so few farms operating in recent times as today, nor have there ever been as few covers of land producing food as today. However, it must be said that the amount of food is similar to that in the past. This is due to efficiency improvement, better fertiliser plans, better equipment, for example: cereal and potato varieties, etc. The only thing that has increased in number is the number of farms with unoccupied houses. We have more than 40,000 of them, while hundreds of thousands of Norwegians say they would like to buy a small farm. Romantic? Yes, perhaps, but there had been light in the windows, the houses and the tunnels had been used and perhaps also been refurbished. The population had increased, and the local store, the gas station, the sports team, the well-being -- well, maybe even the school -- had flourished again. But with the above-mentioned laws, regulations and maximum prices, according to which the government wants to control the country's agriculture and rural policy, there will only be one way, and we see it here today. When all of this is said, the Progress Party will claim that all the degradation of food soil is not necessarily negative. It depends on what we're using it for. In my municipality we have built up perhaps approx. 100 targets in the last years of central expansion. We have cleaned up infrastructure, got a small park, a new Rema 1000 store, a Bonnpreis store, a Europreis shop – and not least nearly 40 new apartments divided into three buildings, which means new residents from other parts of the country. In addition, there are areas left for new measures. This helps the municipality to survive and grow, and to grow into a good center, and also makes the edges more attractive. I believe that the key to sensible management of our land resources is a changed agricultural policy, where we remove and reduce bureaucracy and its laws and regulations. We must encourage and provide framework conditions for agriculture, which gives individual farmers the right to decide for themselves their professional life and the opportunities that a farm offers. We must encourage innovation. Today it is a rigid law if you are to grow more than 15 goals. There has to be another yes mentality, and the question from case handlers has to be: What are we going to help you achieve your goals? This must apply in all areas. The Economic and Social Committee has recently been travelling to Brazil and, among other things, visited agricultural properties there. What we experienced almost cannot be described in words. The farms were big, and I mean big. One we visited had 56 cutters with a cutting table of nine meters in operation and 70 car trains on approx. 30 tonnes payload to operate them. When you heard at the same time that they had two crops a year, and saw that the earth was so light-powered and flat, that the earth and the sky went in one out of the horizon – then we talk agriculture!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1427	It is both a good hour and important interpellation, when the Economic and Social Committee in these days is about to finalise its attitude to the agricultural notification. The interpellant shows in its article that the last 50 years have been built about. 10 pst. of cultivated land. In terms of population growth, food security, the supply of safe and safe food, and the need for increased food production, this is clearly worrying. But if you take into account the growth improvements of what you grow, that over the years you have improved agronomy, more resilient and effective plant varieties and more efficient operation, the picture looks a little lighter. We're probably producing a lot more on the surface now than we did 50 years ago. It's probably also that finishing the products makes us have a lot more volume for consumption now than we had then. It is important to add that for the Right too this is an important topic. In the forthcoming Communication, it is important to move in to ensure sufficient areas to achieve the objective. The goal for the right is the same: we have to produce more food. The right will therefore look at several proposals to achieve this objective. Is it possible to store food when the areas on which it is situated are to be used for anything else? Is it possible to improve existing areas so that they produce even more? Is it possible to do something about the value of processed food soil, so it's not the first thing to do when you're about to redispatch? On the right, the issue is raised by the inter-pellant and it is felt that it must be possible to look at instruments to address the problem. Value adjustments of land may be made by making changes in use requirements. Improvements in agronomy can be achieved by stimulating mining and other improvements. Here, the Keywords might be the land of the land versus the land of the rent. Do you take better care of the land you own than the land you rent? And maybe you can look at the law on the disposal of agricultural property, maybe it's central to such a question. The right does not consider more central management as the solution to these problems. Centrally controlled protection from the Ministry of the Environment has not been a good thing to get more newly cultivated land, rather on the contrary. Therefore, the Right believes that you need to see the need locally. It was previously said by one of the representatives that local understanding must be important in this issue. On the right, the representative agrees with Mr Gullvåg. If you don't see the need locally, it's difficult to legislate and control it from a central point of view. New cultivation of food soils can be done if the protection law is not administered for rigidity. Methods to take care of the top-rich food soil to use it on other newly added areas should be an alternative to look at. Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant again for raising an important question. On the right, we look forward to both constructive input and good debates when dealing with the forthcoming agricultural communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1442	I would like to start by thanking the representative, Mr Højbräten, for raising a very important topic today. The preservation of an everlasting resource shall take precedence over other, more short-term considerations. This principle is now enshrined in the Basic Law § 110b. In the debate, and in the past, the representative Højbräten has made proposals to emphasise soil protection in this respect in the Constitution. I believe there is every reason to be in favour of such an initiative. But in any case, it is a demanding political task to turn this into a practical policy. The county that I and the representative of the Høybräten represent, Rogaland, is a disaster in the degradation of food soil. I am pleased – both on behalf of the county and on behalf of the food industry – that we have a government that is opposed to this issue. The county knows what he has to do, and he does so in line with the wishes of the political majority on the Grand Duchy. It creates reactions locally. We live well in the Center Party. When we believe that soil protection is more important than the cheapest possible residential and commercial area, local development needs to be abandoned – as a general rule. But I must also mention that the Højbrätten's own local party in Rogaland is in fact responsible for the fact that the municipality of Rogaland was against a law of protection when it was at the hearing in 2009. Now I am aware that it may seem as if the representative Høybråten has reached with his message, and an opinion was adopted at the annual meeting of the Christian People's Party party in Rogaland on a stronger soil protection. That's good. But I still want to quote Christian People's Party state politicians Ellen Solheim and Jan Gunnar Matningsdal, who said to Stavanger Evening December 16 when they defended their no to protection: the Christian People's Party wants a strong soil protection, and the Christian People's Party is very much for soil protection. I do not take this up to such doubt about the Highbridge's commitment, but to emphasize that food soil is not protected by word, but by action and decision. I hope and believe that the Highbridge's great commitment to the matter will again be reflected in the Christian People's Party's local policy. I think we have good tools to take care of the food soil, but I recognize that we need more. Positive signals have been given in the major communication on agricultural policy. Today’s instruments need to be further developed and used with greater force. Although the Central Party has not received a majority for its proposal on a separate shelter, it will be further worked on because it is programmed. I am more uncertain about the proposal to introduce different discharge schemes. An example of this is the redisposal levy; another is to require re-cultivation as compensation for built-in land. The willingness to pay for re-disposing the food soil is great, and I am uncertain whether this will have the desired effect. In any case, this is an instrument that must be used in conjunction with other instruments – to reinforce them, not to replace them. I would also stress that arable land is a limited resource. We are very often in favour of new transport projects, but they require land – even cultivated land. We have to accept that to some extent, but I'm concerned that we have to build on ways that use the least possible cultivated soil. We need to ensure that transport projects trigger access to new areas so that we can develop residential and industrial areas in unproductive areas. Thanks again to the representative for the interpellation. I look forward with excitement to what you will come up with regarding the Constitutional proposal. I believe – after hearing the previous two speeches – that this is a matter that it is important that we raise the agenda higher, because the development forces are strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1463	The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen soil protection. I want to commend the interpellant, the hoof, for his great commitment to this important matter, an engagement that is continuous, and for which he often makes an order. Large areas of cultivated land are built into Norwegian municipalities every year. New shopping centres, residential areas and roads are given priority over securing food for future generations. The food soil that we're building down is already occupied: it's the area on which we're going to grow food. The government's objective in the Soria Moria Declaration of halving the degradation of food soil by 2010 was not achieved. But it's nice to look at the preliminary figures for 2011 that we're approaching the goal. But these preliminary figures for re-disposable food land represent an area greater than 800 football courses. So what we're talking about in the area is a lot of football matches. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is The half-life target in the Soria Moria statement says that the re-disposal is going down to 5,700 decaves food soils. Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck has shown a great commitment to soil protection. We're happy about that. Several reports and recommendations have been developed, which make us more aware of the situation than before. When re-disposal is now reportedly going down, we see that the focus on this has worked. That's why it's also important that we don't lean back. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister of Agriculture, in his reply to the interpellant today, says that the job is not finished. We in the Christian People's Party believe that there is a greater need for this job. Interpellanten, Høybråten, has referred to the home of the law of the land, which has been at the hearing. We have suggested that we should have our own objective in terms of innovation. It takes a long time to produce new areas for new cultivation. Maybe this is an area where we have to work more. We have also wondered whether we need to look at the price of food soils that are to be redisposed to, among other things. the purpose of transport. As the representative of Gullvåg was inside, both four-field road on the E18 through Westfold and the railway through Westfold and other counties shall be built. Then you take food soil. But at what price is this food soil taken — in relation to the resources that are lost? This is also something we think we need to discuss. The last point that I have been in dialogue with the government – sometimes also with the Minister of Agriculture – is whether we can change the tax law in terms of reinvestment in farm operations. When there is no arable land in the vicinity, when it is taken for commercial purposes, there is a need for a tax change, so that the farmer gets back the money and the government does not take 50 pst. from the income, based on the current tax system. For the Christian People's Party, soil protection is important. It's important because it's part of the administrative responsibility on which we base our policies. The trustee's responsibility obliges us to take care of future generations, that they too are guaranteed the ability to produce their own food on their own land. In most cases, the degradation of food soils is irreversible. When the house is built, the mall is there, or the highway is there, it's hard to get the food back. Soil protection is also important in order to secure living settlements and a well-kept cultural landscape across our country. It is an important part of the Norwegian identity, and it is important that Norway is also an attractive destination. Local food production based on Norwegian genetic resources also reduces the risk of spreading alien species and disease. We strengthen our readiness to do this by cultivating our own food. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen soil protection. Therefore, the representative Højbräten has challenged the government through this interpellation today. I think it is a pleasure to hear that the representative Geir Pollestad supports the constitutional proposals that are now being drafted, because this is an important matter. It is nice that young politicians want to facilitate a stronger soil protection in the future by strengthening the Constitution at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1486	I would also like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant on an important topic, which many of our local politicians face daily as a major challenge. And especially in the states that have been mentioned, this is something I know at least left-wing people work a lot. There's one perspective that's not included. In an international perspective, Norwegian soil cannot always function as the world's most valuable soil – at least not when the Progress Party tells of the number of harvesters with large cutting tables. But in a perspective related to our climate challenges, Norwegian soil can become much more valuable in the future than it really is today. We can be confronted with major climate change. We can be confronted with droughts or rainy periods that make these large agricultural areas that the Progress Party dreams of, and threshing shears with large cutting tables suddenly decommissioned due to different climate change. Then Norwegian soil will have much greater value than it has today. I believe that it is part of our international commitments to also contribute to Norway’s contribution to food production. That's my approach to this. In a small side note related to site development in many places locally, I have to say that when you look at some of these construction projects that take massive amounts of food soil, I think that in terms of site development and architectural, it would be better to think differently and build closer when we develop the local environment in Norway, and not always use a lot of land when we want to build new ones. It might have led us to have better communities and maybe architecturally seen a lot of fun jobs if we hadn't thought so much about a lot of land use, but had thought of quality and developed what we already have today. It is at least my observation after traveling a lot around Norway. So I believe that setting a bold goal is always important. But I believe that agricultural policy has suffered from the fact that this room has seemed more fun to set bold targets than to take the trouble of making effective instruments. I guess it also bears the mark of this case area. What we in the Left want is stronger legislation in this area, but also the use of instruments to oblige people to grow new land with the same value if you choose to take cultivated land. That's what we think was an instrument that would have made the earth more real value related to valuation than what it gets from today's system and today's market system. These are among the tools we are willing to look at to get more pressure and more real pricing on the cultivated land we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1500	In Norway today, we have strong soil protection. Nevertheless, we see that it is built up annually. It's a development we can regret, but we can't stop developments in Norway by stopping any expansion that takes place in areas of cultivated land. Today, we are facing major challenges in the development of roads and railways. These expansions will require the incorporation of some cultivated land. Other socio-economic developments will in the future also require the construction of cultivated land. What would it have looked like in the Stavanger and Sandnes area if we hadn't built down the cultivated land? Or how would it have gone with the expansion of E6 and E18 if we couldn't build on cultivated land? We in the Progress Party understand that this development will continue in the future as well. Today it is easy to move food soil. We can move it from areas of expansion and put it in new areas to build up new arable land. We in the Progress Party are very concerned that it will make it easier for farmers to obtain authorisation for innovation. There is too much potential for innovation in Norway — the problem is all the restrictions that farmers face when they want to grow a new country. I'm from Mo in Rana myself. There are several examples of farmers being refused to grow their own land. We have farmers who are allocated milk quotas, but who are refused to grow old agricultural land, which has been cultivated in previous generations. The refusals are justified by the proximity of the properties to a protected area or river delta. The process for those who want to start new cultivation is also, according to the assessment of the Progress Party, far too extensive and costly. Expensive investigations are required, long procedures are required before re-cultivation can begin. Opinions from the reindeer industry are also required before the farmer can start new cultivation on his own property. If the government and the ministry had simplified the legislation in this area and made it possible for us to replace the food that is necessarily built with new arable land.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1517	I want to commend the Minister of Agriculture – he is clear and energetic about the issue of soil protection, all in favour of it. The question today is: are the public democratic instruments good enough to ensure that the intention of the Minister of Agriculture can be implemented in practice? The situation is that there is a great shortage of food soil in Norway. Soil is soil where there is earthworm, the more earthworm it is in the earth, the more fertile is the earth – that is the short version. Norway is particularly poor at international level, and it goes from bad to worse. We're becoming more people, and people have a diet that requires larger and larger areas. So we're going to have smaller areas and less fertile areas. The crops do not go up, as the representative from the Right tried to say. The crops are going down. It's going to be both smaller area and smaller crop per unit. I'm not going to go into it, but it's a professional fact. The most fertile soil is where the settlement is the oldest, i.e. where the conflicts are the largest. That soil is especially important, because that's the soil on which we can produce food on which humans can eat directly. There we can produce cereals, potatoes, vegetables and fruit – what does not need to be processed through a domestic animal. There are big, private economic interests that want to eat up the earth gradually. They're huge forces. In the most attractive areas, secret option agreements are common between landowners that count short-term money, and economically strong long-term entrepreneurs who enter into a secret agreement and who are seamsily undermining soil protection and making democratic processes virtually impossible to carry out properly. There's some filth! The role of the public is crucial to balancing these interests. Today’s practices and instruments are the result of policy choices. That's the result of the political understanding we have. And when we're not here anymore, it's because strong interests want to have a relaxed soil protection. It's a shame to say that, but the Labour Party's leadership is among them. Strong soil protection is strongly supported by the population. Real soil protection is a matter of long-term societal planning. We have something called the National Policy Guidelines for Housing, which came from the Ministry of the Environment. It is directly in conflict with the interests of soil protection. It must be said loud and loud and clear. We have to think bigger than just focusing on people living on top of the railway station. There are greater values in life than having such a sense of community. If the government doesn't do better to base a decentralization perspective on employment and business, we're always on the verge, and there's a question of saying no, no, no, to try to protect. We're going to lose that fight. Therefore, it is the major social planning that is crucial, the decentralisation of working and business life. The Minister of Agriculture has tried to improve soil protection by means of a separate paragraph on soil protection. That proposal has been rejected by the Minister of Agriculture, as we have heard. What is then left is the obvious, namely the Law on Planning and Building. It is the Law on Planning and Building that must be used to give you a regulation of the Law on Planning and Building which is such that any municipality that plans land use in densely populated areas and around cities should have it as its mandatory task to regulate agriculture in the same way as a regulator for outdoor, commercial and other purposes. Then we get the democratic process in each local government about which choices to make, but we get a clarification. We get predictability through a legal document, so that both landowners and development interests and the public know what they have to do with. The plan is this: this area is for agriculture, this is for outdoor life – don't come here, this is it. If more land is needed – well, those areas have to be found elsewhere. I thank you for the interpellation. It's affordable. There are issues of political balance, and there has to be even clearer talk than what has been done so far, because the conflicts are such that there are incredibly strong forces in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1538	Thank you to my fellow representatives who have taken part in this debate. There's been a very interesting debate, a rather nuanced debate, and there's been a lot of positive input into how one can get further from protecting the best food soil. But I must say that the representative Lundtigen hit the nail on his head. There are strong forces that want a relaxed soil protection in this country. I can testify that this is what the representative Lundtigen says. In press areas, such as: in Rogaland County, the development interests and the farmers are united by means of intentional agreements providing farmers with annual incomes, to a large extent along the belt of the best food soil. In fact, it binds both the management of the Planning and Building Act and the concrete decisions – when it comes to it – on redispatching. This obscenity must be addressed by the Minister of Agriculture and other relevant departments, because I do not think we can live with such an indirect undermining of public policy. So I'm going to leave the more political part of Lundtigen's posts, but just say that he also hit the nail on his head when he said where the problem is. If the government had wanted more offensive targets and stronger instruments, the Minister of Agriculture would have wanted to. But it's the government that doesn't want to. After the contributions of the representative Lundtigen, I would like to quote from another central process – without comparison: what are we going to do with witnesses after this? But I think it's a good recording of the important clarification that's now going to happen with the agricultural message. The government stands firm in terms of soil protection, said the representative Pollestad. Yes, in my opinion, that is the problem, because when you stand firm, you stand quite still, and the will to tighten up the policy has not been expressed by the government here today. We are hoping that there will still be hope of achieving a more bold goal in terms of both income, production and soil protection, in the negotiations on the agricultural notification that I understand are going on here in the house. If not, no one is in any doubt as to where the Christian People's Party stands – we are not just standing firm, but we are going offensively to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1549	I would also like to thank both the interpellant for the interpellant and thank you for the debate, which I think is very important, and which I am very concerned about. We're actively working on soil protection. I just want to respond to some of the comments in the debate that, after all, there has never been any better results in terms of redispatch than in the last two years. It looks like we've never had lower disposal since 1976. So one must not come here and say that there are no results achieved in a very targeted work, which has the basis also in the previous government's halving goal. Let me underline that, too. I feel that there is a very large consensus that a person wants to come further. I'm going to repeat what I said instead, in the previous article, that I'm looking for new tools to make sure that we reduce the level of disposal even more. In any case, it is a clear objective for me to follow up that work further, and it is also underlined in the communication on agriculture and food that is now being treated. In this context, we are discussing both redisposal and new cultivation. Let me then stress that there is a not insignificant innovation today – approx. 15 000 targets per year in the last year – which of course is also very important. We certainly have to increase this growth, in order to make sure that we have a larger production capacity. But we cannot go away, as several representatives have stressed in the debate, that the best food soil is around the big cities: it's in the South West, it's in the Jären, it's in the East, it's in parts of the Trendelag. And it's also here that we have the biggest challenges – and the worst – that exist, which have also been faced by more people. I would like to stress that the responsibility lies in the municipalities. It's in the local government. There we must have politicians from all parties who take responsibility. It's their duty. If they do not take that responsibility, the objection instrument shall be used. As I said, I've been busy working on strengthening soil protection. We have achieved good results on this. I have been challenged about how we will continue to work in the future. We continue to work forward through the Planning and Building Act. We will continue to work forward through the objectives set. I do not exclude changes in those objectives. I do not exclude policy changes. I am committed to developing policies so that we achieve the objectives that can ensure future food production and security for future food production throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1572	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1582	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 3 and 4, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 5, from Anders B. Werp on behalf of Right Proposal No. 5 has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the government assess whether the best interests of children are adequately taken into account in the Children’s Act, by allowing persons convicted of abuse or other serious crime to retain parental responsibility for their children.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the children’s law to be amended so that those convicted of violence, pedophilia or other moral crime against someone in the immediate family automatically lose parental responsibility for their children until they prove fit for such responsibility.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1616	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting the introduction of a system whereby children who have been abducted abroad are automatically appointed to an aid lawyer in order to take care of their interests.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1633	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the penal code of 1902 to give it the same content as proposed in Section 261 of the Criminal Code of 2005.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1777	Alternatively, the vote shall be taken between the third part of the vote and the first part of the vote by the Party of Advancement and the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment, the first paragraph of Section 261 shall be replaced by the following: any person who seriously or repeatedly denies or keeps an unauthorised person from anyone who, under law, contract or judicial decision, is required to have the unauthorised residence in his whole or part of the time, or who has the right to co-exist, is penalised by a fine or imprisonment of up to 2 years. Similarly, the offender is penalised by an unauthorised person who has received care for him following a decision to take care of him.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1797	It is then added over I, II, IV and V in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1807	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1817	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e1825	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande made a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 14 April 2000 No 31 concerning the processing of personal data is amended as follows: New Section 41(a) is replaced by the following: § 41(a). Municipal supervision A municipality shall itself supervise compliance with the provisions of the chapter here, if it has notified the Data Protection Authority thereof. In this case, the provisions of Chapter VIII shall apply mutatis mutandis. The periodic penalty payment under §47 is nevertheless due to the municipality. The municipality may decide that television surveillance shall be compulsory. In that case, Section 33, fourth and fifth paragraphs and Sections 34 and 35 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The municipality may decide that an annual fee may be imposed on the person conducting compulsory television surveillance. The king may lay down detailed rules on the implementation of municipal supervision.’;» The right has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e2054	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e2064	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e2072	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right-wing proposals No. 5-8, by Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 7 and 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the Debt Scheme Act confers on debtors the right, but not the obligation, to try to obtain an arrangement with creditors, to consider possible improvements in the centralisation of the debt management function, with a view to improving the competence and efficiency of the proceedings, both in time and cost, to review the task of public creditors with a view to providing an even better service to the debtor, to ensure that the time limits for dealing with the debt management system are complied with in relation to the law and today’s prescribed requirement to consider exempting the VAT collection fee, to assess the winding-up of the debt collection fee system, to assess the reduction of the multiplier for expenses further from 1.85 times the legal fee in order to assess the change in the rules so as not to be included in the guarantee for an apartment.’ Proposal No. 8 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to review the debt advisory arrangements and market and to assess whether better organisation of more efficient market mechanisms is necessary and whether this can be done better by private service providers outside the municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e2130	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review public procedures and behaviour as a creditor, with a view to creating better, more uniform and more humane practices.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review cases where the public has priority as a creditor or guarantor, to assess the appropriateness and, in the light of this, to make the necessary proposals for amendments, to consider a change of law which gives the lowest priority to public bankruptcy, and to assess whether the non-residents should provide more information to other creditors on their interpretations, and to be obliged to disclose their interpretations.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e2154	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose to facilitate the creation of an out-of-court debt regime under the English model The Consumer Credit Counselling Service [[CCCS]] The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e2177	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider introducing a single minimum rate of living by the imposition of wage constraints on local social assistance rates. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate a scheme, similar to the Swedish Kronofogden, in which all the pay cuts made under the Law on Coverage Sections 2 to 7 are coordinated and coordinated by one public body, as well as to seek an adjustment to the current system in which the arrangements with non-members are wound up so that the local nominee becomes the only body entitled to make pay cuts.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the consequences of limiting access by private financial institutions to the principal to recover unsecured debt through income constraints.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of other rules relating to the debt regime, forcing and accompanying provisions in order to ensure their appropriateness, in the sense that it ensures a good balance between socio-economic considerations, general sense of law and the ability of individuals to escape from a difficult economic situation.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e2212	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-22.ana.ud980e2224	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
