ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e50	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Ambjørg Sælthun died on 2 January – 89 years old. Ambjørg Sælthun came from Ål in Hallingdal, but settled in Lærdal in Sogn and Fjordane after she married the farmer Olaf Sælthun in 1945. Before this, she had taken home mother's school and was a nurse at Ullevål Hospital in the war years. In politics, Ambjørg Sælthun became a leading woman in many ways, both local and national. She joined local politics in 1959, and then it was the fight against the centralisation of schools that was the most important thing. Sælthun was historical because she was the first woman from Sogn and Fjordane on the Stortinget. In 1969-1973 she came in as an alternate when John Austrheim became Minister of Transport of the Korvald government. From 1973 to 1985 she was a permanent representative and a member of the Church and Education Committee, the Social Committee and the Defence Committee. At Stortinget she was active in many debates. She was a hot follower of the public schools, occupied by the conditions of the nurses and was among the first to call for care pay. In the Center Party, she was a member of the Central Women's National Government for six years and was head of the organization. At the end of the 1970s, she took the initiative for one of the largest political actions here to land, the great inter-political women's act against pornography. Next to her job as a staging representative, she was active in many fields in the home state. The peasant team, the Bondekvinne team and Norway's well were among those for which she did an active service. The effort resulted in honorary membership of Sogn and Fjordane Bondekvinnelag and the Norwegian Bondekvinnelag. Amboerg Sælthun was a clear voice in human bastions. She was the only woman in the Central Party Group from 1973 to 1977 and one of two women in the Defence Committee. Throughout her work she was busy bringing women in charge and care and was of many thought to be a «female woman», also for women in the village. For her commitment, she was also awarded the Senter women’s highest distinction, ‘Såkvinna’, in 1988. Thankfully, we bring peace to Ambjørg Sælthun's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e71	The representatives Arne Sortevik, Harald T. Nesvik, Øyvind Waksdal and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. They called the alternates, for Oslo Khalid Mahmood and for Vestfold County Lars Aegean, have taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Stine Renate Håheim from 14 February onwards and until further notice from the representative Anders B. Werp on care leave from 14 February until 27 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: for the County of Buskerud: Elizabeth Skogrand 14-16. February For Uppland County: Espen Granberg Johnsen 14 February and until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e128	Elizabeth Skogrand is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e145	The financial crisis, which started in 2007/2008, is continuing in phases; it sets deep tracks, especially close to us – in Europe and the United States. We see first and foremost impacts on people and society through growing unemployment, reduced well-being and demanding transitions. Some countries experience political instability and restricted freedom of action in their domestic policies — and, as a consequence, also in foreign policy. The effects of the crisis change the basis of power, influence and the promotion of interests. Interests are important for foreign policy. It is a historical experience that the impact of foreign policy is also influenced by the state of the economy at home. If the economy is not strong and stable, if the country is unable to raise itself through knowledge, innovation and vitality, then the impact of foreign policy is also weakened. If economic crisis leads to social and political unrest and instability — yes, the impact is further weakened. But we must nuance this picture: a crisis mood in what is still perceived as the West must be seen together with technological and economic development, growth and optimism in countries in Asia, South America and Africa. More than before, we note the realities of globalisation: the interdependence, the interconnected markets, the growth shifted to other continents, the technology that elevates so many distances. In a short time, the basis for production and work can be shifted from one part of the world to another. We also experience how communication technology leads to the globalisation of emotions and commitment. Sensitivity and frustration can ignite a fire and stimulate demonstrations in local contexts and in a completely different geography — almost at the same time. We experience a democratisation of voices and expressions – a strong but not always unambiguous force for changes from below that specifically challenge authoritarian regimes. We are witnessing the globalisation of expectations – to political leaders, of increased freedom and dignity – expectations of jobs, health, education, well-being, opportunities. With this as a hindrance, we also experience that power is being shifted. And it has never happened that no state or organisation is switching economic and technological strength into increased political influence – and vice versa: when the crisis strikes deeply and structurally, the foundation of political permeability is also weakened. Power is also shifted when young generations rise and force aside authoritarian leaders who fail to provide work, welfare, economic development, freedom and fundamental human rights. Power is shifted when countries with deep government financial deficits need to cut welfare, defence and resources into foreign policy activity and presence. Power is shifted when emerging emerging economies gain new market shares, with increased confidence and strength, with their interests and political and cultural values, in international organisations and in bilateral relations. I would like to address in this paper the consequences of some of these changes – both for international policy, for Norwegian interests, and for the challenges and opportunities inherent in our foreign policy. Overall, this time of change also offers new opportunities for Norwegian foreign policy and for the protection of Norwegian interests if we exercise them strategically, long-term and anchored in our values. We are and we are perceived as an economic and political surplus nation. That gives you possibilities. And it commits. It's good with the Norwegian economy. The situation is very positive among the countries with which we normally compare. At the same time, we must be prepared for the crisis to have ring-fenced effects in us. We are reminded of this: a responsible economic policy that keeps our house in order is important for safe jobs and well-being – and: it is important for a predictable foreign policy. A main task of modern foreign policy is to make domestic policy possible. Foreign policy must help to support the Norwegian economy and well-being and support Norwegian enterprises, knowledge institutions and value creation. Let me highlight four aspects of how the economic crisis affects the arrangement of foreign policy today. Firstly, the importance of taking good care of our relationship with Europe. There is currently a justified focus on the new markets in the south and east. Norwegian business must know its visitation time there. But it is worth remembering that the dominant link is still going to Europe. Norway is the fifth largest trading partner in the EU countries, larger than India, larger than Japan. For Norway, the EEA market is and remains the sovereign one. About three-quarters of our trade with the rest of the world goes there. We are totally dependent on the economic stability of Europe, and therefore also on the political development of EU countries and cooperation. Therefore, it is a priority for foreign policy to contribute to ensuring an equivalent, predictable and long-term framework for Norwegian business in Europe. The crisis in EU countries is primarily a state financial crisis with major challenges for the single currency, the euro. The more important it is to ensure that the market does not sink into a state of further setback and progressive protectionism. Through a continued active European policy, the government will give priority to ensuring the non-discrimination and predictability of Norwegian enterprises and other Norwegian operators in these markets as provided for by the EEA Agreement and Norway’s agreements with the EU. Secondly, we need to be aware that Norway is also responsible for helping Europe move on and out of today's state of crisis. Let me highlight some important contributions from our side in this context: Norway’s offer to make another 55 billion. kr in loans at the disposal of the International Monetary Fund, as part of a greater international effort, is a clear signal and an offer that is valued. The offer has been made subject to the consent of the Storting. Furthermore, the EEA funds, where Norway contributes significantly – a total of about 13.7 billion. kr for the period 2009-2014 – for welfare, support for civil society, democracy, the rule of law and, in particular, environmental programmes in Europe. We have now concluded the agreement negotiations with 13 of the 15 beneficiary countries. It is a question of investing in priority areas of society, which are under pressure in the current circumstances of economic crisis, for example. civil society, where support from EEA funds is well over 1 billion. kr during the five-year period. Norway has just included these contributions with clear and joint responsibility. It is also an important contribution that Norway is a long-term, stable oil and gas supplier to the European markets. This predictability is significant. The government emphasises an active energy dialogue with European countries: on the renewable initiative, which is now an EEA issue, on the role of gas as an energy resource and on new visions for Norwegian hydropower as part of the wider transformation of energy structures in Europe. Finally, Norway has a significant involvement in many European countries through the long-term investments into the State pension fund abroad. It also hears that in 2011, almost 289,000 non-resident workers from the EEA region were registered in Norway. It illustrates that integration through the EEA Agreement gives advantages and opportunities both ways. Our welfare growth in recent years would not have taken place with the same strength without this labour immigration. At the same time, Norwegian exports to the Baltic and Central European countries have increased more than exports to the rest of the EU in recent years. My third point on how we are affected in this review of the external effects of the financial crisis, when EU countries are to develop a more common foreign policy, with a common instrument, is about the strength of this policy. The value and culture community, the economic community we share with EU countries, is vital for Norwegian foreign policy, economy and well-being. European countries are both our closest partners and our common senses in the vast majority of cases — and the European voice is important. The financial crisis is turning out differently in Europe. The most dramatic is the situation for Greece, where, after years of high debt and high deficits, the national political system is being tested. We see how the crisis affects the social structures of many European countries. We see disturbing examples of minorities becoming more vulnerable. At the same time, there has been a significant increase in the income gap in the OECD region in recent years, in parallel with a decline in social mobility and migration capacity. Norway is a rare exception here — we have relatively small differences in our country. We are therefore reminded of this side of the Norwegian model of society, the crucial importance of work for everyone and policies that ensure fair distribution. It is important – for domestic policy and the ability to convert. And as a consequence: also for foreign policy. Changes and new stages in European cooperation have always come as a result of external and internal needs for change — often as a result of economic challenges, as we saw from the 1980s. Today, there is a complex picture of economic challenges that require action, but we experience less popular and political support for the new, comprehensive integration criteria mentioned. In several countries, EU scepticism is a clear voice in domestic policy. We have to expect that EU countries will continue to and must use considerable political energy in internal conditions, both in their response to economic challenges and between EU countries in terms of further development of cooperation, not least the handling of the euro. This could mean a smaller extroverted EU in relation to broader foreign policy tasks. My point is that everything indicates that economic issues will remain at the top of the international agenda for a long time in the future – for foreign policy-makers in Europe as for others. The crisis in the EU, and all the energy managers need to spend on internal conditions and internal clean-up, risks weakening the EU's voice and authority on important international issues. This is not good for Norway, for EU countries are traditionally our closest partners in the vast majority of foreign policy issues. The United States, for its part, is concerned with domestic policy in the presidential election campaign, combined with clear limitations in the capacity of activity worldwide. Today, the focus is on national construction at home, not on national construction, as President Obama has expressed it. In total, this could change the focus on high priority foreign policy issues – real global issues such as trade, climate, disarmament and sustainable energy access to all. We are experiencing more demanding conditions for multilateral solutions and action. The G20 countries have a special responsibility here. This weekend, the Mexican G20 Presidency has invited foreign ministers in the G20 to a conference on the management of the main common challenges and their management. Norway is also invited to this meeting, and we aim to participate actively. My fourth point comes from the first three, and it's about how the government is now working to strengthen the work of the Norwegian Foreign Service to promote Norwegian business abroad. Most governments act this way — yes, in the EU countries, this is becoming an increasingly central part of the EEAS’s work in view of the fact that more foreign policy is to be implemented by the EEAS, which is under construction in Brussels. We are now strengthening our capacity to provide additional assistance from the EEAS, in cooperation with, among others. Innovation Norway, Norwegian Research Councils and other organisations and instrument actors, such as Norway’s Maritime Board and INTSOK. To illustrate from one relevant sector, we're taking the goal of being the world's leading maritime nation. In 2011, Norway exported seafood for 53 billion. kr, of which almost 60 pst. to the EU. Norway is now the main supplier of seafood to the population of Europe. As we know, the U.S. has recently decided to remove the extra charge of 26 pst. against Norwegian salmon, which was introduced more than 20 years ago. It is joyous news, both for Norwegian salmon exports and for the otherwise very good trade policy relationship between Norway and the United States. We will now step up cooperation with business and labour organisations and with businesses. Increased emphasis will also be placed on business skills in the EEAS. An important aspect of this is our work on stronger rules and standards for decent employment and corporate social responsibility. We are experiencing pressure on both parts of the increasingly global economy – at home as it is outside. We give priority to this work in the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, and in our influence on the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, the World Bank and the WTO in their policy-making. We put this on the agenda when Norwegian social skills are sought by developing countries, as LO and NHO helped to shape our meetings with the authorities and civil society during my visit to Myanmar in January. Finally, in this European Review, let me highlight the importance of the European Convention on Human Rights for the pan-European value base. The Court of Justice of Strasbourg shall ensure that States comply with their obligations. But now the court is facing major challenges with an ever-growing and more unmanageable range of cases. It is unrealistic that the majority of Member States will agree to add more resources to the Court of Justice. It is essential that appropriate measures are taken to help solve the long-term challenges of the Court of Justice. The aim is and will be to make an effective contribution to ensuring human rights in all Member States of the Council of Europe. We have to do our part in order for this to happen. In my foreign policy statement last February, the world’s eyes were on the popular uprisings and upheavals in the Middle East and North Africa – the so-called Arab Spring. The situation today gives rise to both hope and concern for the future. Economic realities play a significant role as a driving force here too. Dissatisfaction with lack of development and high unemployment was an important underlying cause of the uprisings. It reiterates the importance of fundamental economic policies, their organisation and their distribution for stability and the legitimacy of political systems. The contrasts are great. The fourth year showed that where the leaders resort to military instruments against their own people, where the leaders themselves end up falling. If dissatisfaction with the economy can ignite a fire, then there are plenty of other sparks to spread the uprising: corruption, systematic violations of human rights, nepotism and lack of democracy. We have to take this into account: we are at the beginning of the transformation of the Great Middle East region, not at the end. Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, we still live in Europe with the aftermath of this historic upheaval. Deep changes in power and governance are not a straight-line process and do not follow a given timetable. So how do we respond to these changes? What should be Norway's line? The basic position must be comprehensive support for democracy and human rights and support for the right of peoples to self-determination, as the UN Charter points out. Only countries that respect fundamental human rights can contribute over time to the establishment of a stable international legal order. When people rise up against authoritarian leaders and demand reforms and universal rights, they should receive our support. Such aid may not be phased out as an interference in internal affairs. At a time when the economy is global, we must maintain that these fundamental values are also universal. At the same time, it does not mean that all responses and responses can be the same, until there are circumstances for different, the contexts of unique and underlying lines of conflict between social, political and religious groups for particular ones. The use of external military power is the most dramatic instrument. In most contexts, the use of power must be in the last resort category, after all other possibilities have been tested. There was an opportunity to prevent widespread abuse of the civilian population in Libya through military intervention by the international community. It had the support of the Arab League and the decisive green light of the UN Security Council. Norway contributed, in line with a long line in Norwegian foreign policy, to support the implementation of decisions of the Security Council. The greatest drama now unfolds in Syria – a country that is at the same time a central piece in many kinds of power balances in the Middle East. The internal conflict is already overtoneing many other tense situations in the region, where formations are still fragile. This may ignite conflicts to a large extent and contribute to the transformation of an entire region. There can be no doubt about the responsibility of the Syrian regime for the crimes committed against civilians, which the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has referred to as crimes against humanity. We distance ourselves from and condemn these actions and hold the leaders of Damascus accountable. The Arab League and neighbouring country that Turkey has committed itself to ending the attacks on the civilian population, but the Assad regime has not given in to the political pressure. The UN Security Council countries have so far failed to reach an agreement on clear responses, which is very regrettable. Following the veto of Russia and China in the Security Council, it is now essential that the international community continue its commitment to a broad, convergent approach to resolving the conflict in Syria. This process must have the Arab countries in the driver’s seat. We place considerable emphasis on how the countries of the region assess the situation, and in particular the role of the Arab League. The League’s last weekend meetings called again in support of the Arab peace plan, expressed the desire for cooperation with the United Nations to establish an expanded observer force and immediately called for humanitarian access to the most conflict-affected Syrian cities. These are all important proposals that should be carefully considered. The Government will welcome the initiative to set up a broad and inclusive group of contacts to discuss solutions to the Syrian crisis. The proposal of the Tunisian authorities to establish a Friends Group for Syria in Tunis on 24 February 2012 could be an important step forward. The group should be inclusive. Central to the discussions should be the Arab peace plan for a peaceful and Syrian-led transfer of power. Norway is following the situation in Syria closely. To this is the presence of our embassy in Damascus of great importance. It's in times of crisis we really need diplomatic presence. The security of the embassy's personnel is a priority. We closely coordinate here with our Nordic neighbours. If Syria is the most dramatic chapter, then the development in Egypt, the largest country in the Arab world, is also of fundamental importance. There's a lot at stake here. The leader has fallen, a new parliament has been elected, but a new government has not taken shape, and the tensions in political Egypt are rising. We should actively engage new political groupings, share experiences and clarify the responsibilities of universal human rights. Greater tension is also occurring further east of the region, in and around Iran and, in particular, in terms of the uncertainty about the purpose of its nuclear programme. At the bottom is also the tensions within the country, where an authoritarian and brutal regime oppresses its own population. Iran is generating fear in many neighbouring countries through its ambitions of power and clear intervention in many of the region's conflicts. It is Iran's own responsibility to remove the uncertainty about the nuclear programme. No one contests the country's right to develop civil nuclear power, but there must be full transparency about the actual purposes. The openness has been lacking, and the main responsibility lies with Iran. There are increasing indications that leadership is taking systematic steps towards becoming a nuclear power. This is the challenge facing international society. The situation is hampered by a mutual lack of trust between Iran and large parts of the world society. It is deeply alarming that a meaningful dialogue is so to say absent. Reactions and counter-reactions reinforce each other. Penalties continue the regime’s actions, which, on its part – through the development of the nuclear programme and military markers at the Hormuz Strait – contribute to further increasing the pressure for new sanctions. In this situation, the door must be open to negotiation. At the same time, the positions of the international community must be consistent when binding obligations are broken and trust is lacking. This is the background for the new and intensified response to Iran. Norway is taking part in the EU sanctions regime, and we are also joining the strengthened EU action, which was adopted on 23 January 2012. At the same time, we are supporting the EU line, which clearly calls for negotiations. There is no military solution to the nuclear programme conflict. At a more general level, we encounter a different development in the Great Middle East region that requires an thoughtful response. A reality in the transformation of the region is the increasing importance of political Islam. It's to the Islamic parties the majority of voters now turn when they drop to the polls. They make their choices for complex reasons. They want better living conditions, and they take care of old power elites. There is a religious motivation, but also that choices are linked to identity and proximity to traditions and people's everyday lives. What should be our attitude? We cannot turn our backs on the majority's choices. It would break our own democratic principles, and it would create the impression that the West is operating with double standards. At the same time, we must be clear about the values and standards of international society and express clear expectations of respect for human rights and democratic rules. To meet the needs of the population, new leaders require political and economic reforms with open participation in regional and international cooperation. For example, it is clear that foreign investment — which is absolutely crucial — is absent if it is not cleared up into corruption and arbitrariness and no predictability is created. Organisations such as the World Bank and the IMF and others need to make knowledge and competence available to carry out such reforms in order to benefit the people of the economy. And we must engage in active dialogue with those who are now given political power. Norway already has a strong platform and a network since we've been in contact with the parts of civil society that are now in power in the Middle East for years. That's what we're going to use. Such dialogue is not an expression of our sharing of views on policy. It is through such contacts that we can communicate clear messages, even where we do not share their views. In our contacts, we emphasise how fundamental values in our own democratic tradition – universal human rights and modern social organisation – can together develop democracy. We have a long tradition of supporting organisations that stand out in civil society for modern, democratic rights. Examples include support for youth organisations, media, human rights organisations, support for electoral preparations and training. In Egypt, for example, Norway supports democracy measures through various channels with approximately 36 million. kr. A particular focus is on the protection of women’s rights. It is particularly important to make demands on new legislation, not least on new constitutions. The protection of marginalised groups and individuals exposed to discrimination is the very test of lacmus on the will and ability of a State to safeguard human rights. Protection of sexual minorities is one of the clearest examples. We are making a major effort to contribute to the protection of this vulnerable group, both at UN and country level, and this will continue in 2012. Our efforts in the Middle East region are based on our firm, broad commitment to the promotion of human rights. In 2012, Norway’s priority areas are as follows: Firstly, I have been involved in supporting democracy, the rule of law and popular participation, especially in countries in transition, such as the Middle East. Secondly, the protection of human rights defenders and freedom of expression. We will give priority to supporting spokespersons and women who give voice to vulnerable groups against oppression and persecution. We see them in the news every day. The right to freedom of expression is a prerequisite for all such work. Human rights defenders shall be able to perform their functions without being exposed to obstacles, attacks or threats. We will continue to support the training of journalists covering elections and demonstrations in countries that have undergone major political upheavals in the last year. We support training in human rights and how justice can best be settled after a violent conflict. We support dialogue projects between journalists in countries with large Muslim populations and western countries, and between journalists in the Middle East where the aim is to combat hateful reporting. Thirdly, the fight against the death penalty — an unworthy form of punishment that violates the most fundamental right of all, namely the right to life. The government will lead in the fight against the death penalty towards the next World Congress against the Death Penalty in Madrid in 2013. Through a cross-regional core group of countries, we must mobilise high levels of political participation, including from countries that have not abolished the death penalty. In October, Norway takes over the presidency of the Support Group of the International Commission against the Death Penalty. We shall actively use this as a platform for action in the future, in close cooperation with civil society and non-governmental organisations. Fourth — a field of work that also intervenes in many other areas — protection of minorities. Minorities are exposed, not least in times of political unrest and economic and social unrest. This is not just an experience in the Middle East and North Africa now. In Europe we have our own horrific experiences, historical ones, but we also see today strongly polarised societies and minorities under pressure. I announced in November 2011 that we would launch our own minority project to deepen our work, both in multilateral organisations and through the profile and actions at country level. It's necessary. In our contact with political movements in Egypt, we have, for example: addressed the situation of the Coptic minority, both to the authorities and to the Muslim brotherhood that recently won the elections. Last week I had a first meeting with engaged organisations in Norway and got a lot of good insights into how we can continue working on the minority project. Their commitment is highly valued. In the arrangement of this work, we must at the same time assume that minorities are a complex category. We will focus on the areas where the challenges are particularly great, and where the commitment here at home is broad. Protection of life-vision minorities is one such area. Many in Norway are concerned with the situation of Christian minorities in the Middle East and in countries such as Pakistan. The government is also concerned about the situation of Christians in these troubled times. We look with concern at a development in which many Christians who have lived in the Middle East for generations have been forced to emigrate. At the same time, it is not just Christians who face difficulties. We also see daily violence between Muslim groups, such as Sunni Muslims and Shia Muslims in Iraq. The Bahais in Iran and the Ahmadiyyas in countries like Pakistan and Indonesia are other examples of religious groups under hard conditions. When we work to protect minorities, we also have to be careful so that we don't put them at more risk by lifting them forward and defining them as a group. The starting point must be to promote the development of legal states that ensure respect for human rights for all persons — both majority and minority. Pressure on minorities takes place in most regions, including in Europe. Labels can be religion and outlook, ethnicity, gender identity or completely other complex factors. We are now strengthening our awareness of historical conditions, local knowledge and competence in order to make proper contributions. Organisations such as the United Nations, the OSCE and the Council of Europe are central venues to follow up this minority initiative. The UN Human Rights Council is now in front of its second round of country reviews. Here we will address the situation of religious minorities in selected countries and in general speeches when discussing country situations in the Council. Our foreign stations are monitoring the situation in individual countries, and on the basis of this, and in cooperation with Norwegian and international organisations and knowledge communities, we will design our commitment and actions. Before I leave the Middle East region, let me briefly take up the situation in the perhaps most central conflict - between Israel and Palestine. It's not uplifting news to share. The picture of a fixed situation is further anchored; it is as if there are more steep contradictions within both parties than developments between them. The core of the conflict exists, the occupation continues and deepens through the settlements and expulsion of Palestinians from their own country. At the same time, the Palestinians remain divided, despite various messages of reconciliation, but it seems to be a long way to go. The donor country group, AHLC, chaired by Norway, concluded last year that the Palestinian self-government authorities are qualified to govern an independent country. Robust Palestinian institutions provide services to the Palestinian people who do not stand back for what similar institutions in other countries provide to their citizens. Palestine thus meets key requirements for independence, even if there are unresolved questions. Norway supported the Palestinians’ legitimate right to bring their case before the UN in the autumn of 2011, and Norway is ready to recognise Palestine as a state. It is the government's view that recognition should be about reality – that is, the state is functioning. We are basing ourselves, as the Palestinian leadership of President Abbas also makes, that outstanding issues are solved through negotiations. So it is urgent to start negotiations. The whole vision of the two-state solution is now in danger. Lack of progress makes both Palestinians and Israelis lose hope of peace. This strengthens extreme forces on both sides. The main responsibility lies with the parties, but the international community must continue to play a clear role. Norway will support all efforts to achieve a movement in months to come. The Palestinian government is facing major challenges here. The economic obstacles resulting from the occupation persist, while the contribution of the donors declines. An economic crisis could put the whole self-government in jeopardy, and it would be particularly severe for the local population in Gaza. As head of the AHLC, Norway will assist the Palestinian self-government authorities in continuing the state-building project. Norway shall chair the next donor meeting in Brussels in one month in cooperation with EU External Action Officer Catherine Ashton. Palestinian reconciliation is a necessary prerequisite for a viable Palestinian state and a lasting peace settlement. This is President Abbas' goal. There can be no doubt that he is negotiating on behalf of all the Palestinian people. We expect any Palestinian government to respect already concluded agreements, including the Oslo Agreement, which obliged the parties to find a peaceful solution to the conflict and to recognise Israel. Let me move on to a land situation on the outskirts of the region I have now mentioned, east of the Indian Ocean, as highlighted by American author Robert Kaplan as the 21st century center of international politics. There is now justified hope of a brighter future for Myanmar, or Burma, which is an important country in this region, with long coast and strategic location between India, China and Thailand. Changes in the country have been remarkable. It has happened quickly and in part unexpectedly. The release of several hundred political prisoners, the release of Aung San Suu Kyi, her and the National League for Democracy's decision to submit to the forthcoming elections in April, the clear steps towards freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and freedom of organisation, the revision of labour legislation in line with ILO's demands – yes, all this illustrates an unprecedented development. And we can add arms rest in several of the ongoing and long-term conflicts with the country's ethnic groups. This is a process that, unlike the Arab Spring, is initiated from the top, by the civil government that followed the military – civil, but with largely former military personnel in the driver’s seat. Why does this happen? I think we have to look again for explanations in economic reality. Clearly, a military-led regime under international sanctions cannot respond to the needs of the population. The board was simply not sustainable. The changes differ from the insurrections in the Middle East. But the progress is equally full. There are counterpowers, and there may be setbacks. This is precisely why it is right to engage — if you have the prerequisites to make a difference. It's Norway. Until recently, only Norway of the western countries carried out political visits to Myanmar. Norway took a driving role in international engagement, while emphasising to work in coordination with our closest partners, in particular the EU and the United States. Close dialogue has also taken place with several Asian countries. Norway now has confidence in the authorities of Myanmar, and we have confidence and close contact with a number of environments that fight for democracy. I got this confirmed during my visit in January. We have stressed that the reforms and the clear steps towards democracy must be accompanied by encouragement. On 14 January this year, the government removed the special invitation from 1997 to Norwegian and Norwegian professional organisations not to trade or invest in Myanmar. We now believe that Norwegian business can make a positive contribution to its economic development, but we also assume that ethical standards are respected. European sanctions, of which Norway is also a part, consist. The prospects for raising them should encourage authorities to stick to the reform course, not least through the free and fair implementation of the April elections. If this occurs, it should be opened in order to facilitate or remove the penalties. This appears to be the current position in the EU and the United States. At the request of the authorities and opposition, Norway will facilitate access by its authorities to relevant competences and knowledge in those policy areas where this is lacking. Norway will actively support the reconciliation process with the ethnic groups. Armor rest is good, but just a first step. Follow-up is even more demanding. There remains a great need for justice and reconciliation. People will see that peace pays off and that their lives improve. Norway can do something about this, and we will find suitable ways to contribute. We have also raised questions about how the international donor community can best organise itself to assist Myanmar and the reform forces effectively, so that it does not become chaotic when businesses, donor organisations and various stakeholders report from outside. The Arab Spring and the opening in Myanmar have provided opportunities for Norway's peace and reconciliation efforts. Built-in trust and networks over several years have provided us with knowledge of political landscapes and opportunities to support concrete projects to promote democracy, reform and bridge construction. Last year's presentation briefed me on the state of our political relationship with China after the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010. This relationship is still marked by the fact that Chinese authorities have opted to freeze political links with Norway. Overall, trade increased in 2011. But parts of our export industries experience problems in trade with China. As I said earlier, today's state is not normal, and it should therefore be changed. Norway regrets the current situation of political links. We are well aware of the position of the Chinese authorities, we take note of their views on both the peace prize and the prize winner and have taken note of this. We want to move on from here – along with the Chinese authorities. We do not want to see such freezing occur in the future. The potential — and areas — for cooperation between our two countries is significant. We want to work for natural meeting places with China to become active again. The government sees, among other things: to a constructive political dialogue on Arctic and other important issues of interest to our two countries. Norway has supported and continues to support China’s permanent observer status in the Arctic Council. We want a dialogue on this, as we implement dialogue with other candidate countries. We extend an open hand and emphasise that both states have a common responsibility to move forward in mutual respect and for the benefit of both countries. This approach is firm, and we are ready to take our responsibilities. The Storting will be given a broad account of the situation in Afghanistan and the Norwegian exposure there in the month-end of May/June. I will briefly give some overall assessments and updates. Continued armed attacks continue, security continues to be a critical factor, major tensions continue to be felt by Afghan policies, and tensions continue to be evident in the relationship between Afghanistan and the outside world. Similarly, it is a sign in time that political solutions are much more in focus. The conflict cannot be resolved militarily. It has to find a political solution. The most striking thing about today's situation is the progress in political contacts with the Taliban. All indications now indicate that the Taliban will set up an office in Qatar to facilitate contacts and talks between Afghan authorities and the international community. This, in turn, is likely to open up direct peace talks with the Taliban. How this is to be done and what content remains to be seen. The government welcomes the recognition of the need for a political solution. At the same time, there is reason for realism and soberness. A successful political process is among other things: depending on the inclusion of all ethnic groups, civil society and Afghan women in the process. An inclusive process is necessary, both to build trust between groupings — often characterised by suspicion — and to chisel out positions that take care of interests across previous dividing lines. From the Norwegian side, we do what we can to support such a process. Future peace talks will only succeed if the process is owned by Afghan. But we also need to look into the fact that there will be a need for some involvement of the international community and neighbouring countries. It is particularly important that Pakistan and Iran play a constructive and supportive role. No country can give itself a kind of veto in relation to a wanted Afghan political process. History has so many times shown that this has been the case. It must not happen again. Norway will also continue to work actively with Afghan authorities in their desire to strengthen regional cooperation. Spires were placed at the Istanbul Conference last November and will be followed up at the Ministerial Conference in Kabul in June. If we succeed in strengthening regional cooperation, this will be positive for the stabilisation of Afghanistan. During the Afghanistan conference in Bonn in December, I had my own meeting with the Afghan women's network. I committed myself to Norway continuing an active commitment to support their rights and their legitimate place in Afghan society. We have ongoing and good dialogue with the network to monitor how this Norwegian support is to be chiseled in order to maximise its impact. We build, among other things, work on the follow-up to UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, which is a major priority field of work in Norwegian foreign policy. On the military side of Afghanistan, we are in the process of transferring security responsibilities to the Afghan authorities in a clean and orderly manner. This is in line with the decision of the NATO Summit in Lisbon in December 2010 that the international stabilisation force, ISAF, should be fully withdrawn by the end of 2014. This development is sought by the Afghan Government. Once again, the key to Afghan ownership is ownership, which must include responsibility for stabilising the country, facilitating political dialogue with the Taliban and continuing social and economic development. The transfer of security responsibilities to the Afghan security forces is as planned. Our own plans are that the Norwegian forces should be out of the Faryab province by the summer of 2013. The Afghan security forces – the army and the police – are built up with international assistance. The continuation of the financial support is necessary in order to maintain the strengths. Norway is ready to take part in this responsibility. Today’s plans for a strength of more than 350,000 people seem equally full to be too ambitious. The emphasis must be on quality rather than quantity. The continuation of support to the Afghan security forces will be one of the main issues at the NATO summit in Chicago in May. At the Bonn conference in December, 85 countries confirmed that they will continue their civil efforts even after the withdrawal of ISAF. In other words, Afghanistan will not be left alone once the ISAF operation has been completed. This was an important political signal in Bonn to the Afghan Government and our partners. At the planned Tokyo donors’ meeting in July, Bonn’s political signals on future assistance will be clarified. I will come back to the device and the scope of the assistance in my statement about Afghanistan for the Storing in May/June. I had conversations in January in the United States with my American colleague and with other political environments and with a number of representatives of research, technology and business – not least to strengthen the close, good relationship between Norway and the United States, which also contributed to the last harvest of the King and Queen. One theme of my conversations was security and NATO. The NATO summit in Chicago in May will draw up the political framework for the activities of the alliance in the coming years. The backbone of this summit will be the serious economic situation facing many of our allies. The majority now cut significantly in their defence budgets. The United States alone, which has a share of about 75 pst. of NATO defence expenditure, shall cut 487 billion. dollars in the next ten years. This is happening in a situation where defence budgets are significantly strengthened in countries such as Russia and China. So the impact of the financial crisis on the defence budgets is going right into NATO. In addition, the recent US decision to reduce permanent presence in Europe and turn American attention to Asia. The US security policy orientation westwards is understandable. There is no need to mention these trends as dramatic. Transatlantic relations are bottom-solid and have for many decades been closely linked to the United States and Europe in a close community of values and interests. It's our opinion that this is how it will remain. But it requires effort from all parties. Following the adoption of the new strategic concept, the NATO community is now working to outsmart political decisions such as: shall contribute to the modernisation and efficiency of NATO cooperation through changes in the chain of command and operational capability of the alliance. This means that decisions will be taken which will link the so-called partner countries even closer to NATO, which Norway supports. We also support closer contact with, among others. The African Union and the Arab League, which will be an additional dimension to NATO's cooperation already with the UN and the EU. In accordance with the Soria Moria platform, there will be a step in the right direction to agree to less emphasis being placed on the importance of nuclear weapons in NATO. It is positive that we also feel increased support among the NATO countries for our desire to remove the corresponding nuclear weapons in Europe. The challenge here is that Russia has the vastest arsenals and stocks of these weapons, while Russia has so far shown no willingness to reduce or abolish them. First of all, we are working to put in place mechanisms and guidelines that will contribute to increased transparency, which in turn can facilitate future reductions. All of this is an ambitious agenda. We do not expect to be targeted in all the areas of the Chicago Summit in May either. The government is concerned that the summit should outsource the course for further work along these tracks and with an ambition for less dependence on nuclear weapons. A world free from nuclear weapons is what we and other allies are striving for, which was also the perspective of President Obama in his much-discussed Praha speech in April 2010. Despite considerable progress on the Western Balkans, this remains an area of Europe characterised by tensions and, in some cases, by internal unrest — an area in which the NATO alliance has also been engaged. I am thinking primarily of the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the fragile relations between Serbia and Kosovo. Norway recognised Kosovo as an independent country early on, and today we have a good civil commitment to it. Political dialogue is also close, and we most recently had Prime Minister Thaci in Norway just before Christmas as part of strengthening relations and cooperation. Our relationship with Serbia is well and historically anchored. We have close links with the Serbian authorities at different levels, and we are experiencing an ever-increasing level of cooperation in the field of justice, police, defence and a number of other sectors. Serbia's reform efforts have in many areas prepared the country for closer EU integration. We look forward to the day when Serbia and Kosovo find a solution to their situation – and in particular to the best possible response to the needs of the Serbian-dominated population in the north of Kosovo. The issue can only be resolved through active involvement of the two countries and where the international community has a responsibility to support initiatives that can contribute to a stable solution that opens up enhanced development and further EU integration for both parties. In the light of the close ties we have with Serbia and Kosovo ourselves, Norway is prepared to provide the help we can to bring movement into such a political process. Let me finish in the north. In November last year, the government presented a communication on Northern Region Policy in a broad perspective, Meld. St. 7 for 2011–2012 — Vision and instruments. Last week, the biggest poll took place, and I look forward to the debate on this big and important topic in this Chamber in April. On behalf of the government, I would also like to pay tribute to the strong parliamentary commitment that takes place in the regional cooperation forums linked to the North. This strengthens Norway’s voice and is an example of a good Norwegian tradition of cooperating where we have common objectives and strategy. One of the visions mentioned in the Communication is the development of a new European energy region in the north. This is a vision that can be realized with the new findings that have been made, and with the clarification of the dividing line between Norway and Russia, an agreement Stortinget gave its consent one year ago. We see increasing future-optimism in the north. Many of the new opportunities opened up can be realised through good cooperation with Russia. We give priority to solutions that serve the interests of both countries. The closeness of cooperation at many levels can be illustrated by the fact that border crossings at Storskog have increased from 8 000 in 1990 to 107 000 in 2005 and was almost 195 000 in 2011, where a new monthly record was set in December 2011 by 22,700 persons crossing this Norwegian-Russian border. That's what it says. The government is following developments in Russia closely. We value and support the broad contact established between all Norwegian and Russian actors in civil and organisational society, culture, academia, public institutions and others. The contact surfaces are more than ever. There is cooperation in ever new areas. And where there are contradictions, we're able to find solutions. We want these contacts to expand, and we want to strengthen our own knowledge of Russia. This is why, through the Norwegian Research Council, the U.D. is setting up a wide-ranging research programme on Russia that will provide us with valuable insights over the next five years. After the parliamentary elections in December, we have witnessed a political awakening in the Russian middle class that I believe is healthy for Russian society. This is something the Russian political leadership must deal with. The implementation of the presidential elections in a few weeks will be an important indicator of the way in which progress will be made. As I said earlier in the presentation: elections are the very litmus test of democracy. However, the report by the OSCE and the Council of Europe election observers in December points to a number of weaknesses. We expect – and the Russian people expect – that the presidential elections will now take place in accordance with Russia's international commitments. As a close partner of Russia, we are actively dealing with developments in the country: we support positive trends and tell about what we see of negative trends. At a time of political turbulence on the Russian side – and at a time of global shifts in power – it is important that we stick to our long-term engagement policy. Exposure is the only means of influencing interaction with Russia in line with our interests. Norway shall be predictable, recognisable and clear in its meetings with Russian counterparties. Until October 2013, Norway has chaired the Barents Council, and our main focus is industrial development and resources. The work on environmental problems in North-West Russia is reinforced and a climate action plan with emphasis on adaptation is being drawn up. People-to-people contacts continue, and we will promise cooperation between indigenous peoples, which is also important in terms of democracy and human rights in Russia. Next year, the results of 20 years of cooperation in the region shall be marked by a Prime Minister’s meeting. Another important body, the Arctic Council, will follow up the 2011 search and rescue agreement with a new agreement, this time on oil spills. The work on adaptation to climate change will be a high priority, as will the strengthening of the Council's activities, including the establishment of the permanent secretariat in Tromsø. Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2012, with one main focus being the challenges facing the welfare state in the Nordic region. Work on the renewal and efficiency of the Council of Ministers will continue throughout the year. The strengthened interest in deepening cooperation in the Nordic region is a good starting point for the Norwegian Presidency. Here, Thorvald Stoltenberg's 2009 report is still an important source of inspiration. Even closer cooperation between the Nordic foreign services and the Nordic co-location of embassies and stations is on the agenda now. The plan is that decisions will be taken during the year on a pinch of places where we can go further with the planning of common Nordic embassies. In addition, we cooperate in the area of social security, including digital security. The establishment of a Nordic network against digital attacks will be an important step in the concreteisation of the Nordic Declaration of Solidarity. 2012 marks another active year for Norwegian foreign policy. Anchoring policy values, priorities and objectives through ongoing dialogue with the EEAS strengthens the impact of foreign policy. That is why I look forward to the forthcoming debate on this presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e430	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e446	Norway’s ban on alcohol advertising was introduced in 1975. It is one of the main pillars of our national policies to reduce drinking pressures and reduce the extent of alcohol-related diseases, accidents and violence. This policy is based on research that thoroughly documents the relationship between alcohol use and public health. The ban on alcohol advertising has therefore, for more than three decades, had wide and stable political support. I take it for granted that the government will do everything in its power to prevent alcohol advertising on Norwegian TV screens. It's not requested by the Norwegian people. Norway’s ban on alcohol advertising was continued when we concluded the EEA Agreement in 1994, by exempting us from the Directive on television advertising. This was legally declared by an addition to Article 15 of the Directive. Since then, the derogation has allowed Norway to prevent alcohol advertising also in consignments addressed to the Norwegian market, even if they are sent from television stations located outside Norway. By sealing the dirt hole that could constitute so-called targeted broadcasts, we have in practice also removed the basis for promoting alcohol advertising in the interests of non-discrimination between television stations. It shows that the matter is of much greater and wider significance than it might seem at first sight. In the EU, alcohol policy has traditionally been seen as more industrial policy than health and social policy. This is due to the fact that many EU countries are large producers of wine and other alcohol products. This has its consequences. Europe has the world’s highest alcohol consumption and the highest share of disease and early death from alcohol. Every year, 600 000 Europeans die of alcohol damage, according to the World Health Organisation. Among professionals working with public health, there was therefore some optimism when, in June 2006, the European Commission presented the most comprehensive report on alcohol consumption and alcohol damage in Europe. More than 7 pst. According to this report, alcohol can be related to all diseases and premature death in EU countries. The adverse effects also affect people other than those who drink themselves. For example, 10,000 people die each year in traffic because of the drunkenness of others. Those who are the hardest hit are still the children. About 9 million children live in fear and insecurity because one of them they love most is drinking. Research has also shown some clear contexts: the higher the total consumption of alcohol in the population, the higher the number of high-consumers and at risk of drinking, and the greater the extent of alcohol-related diseases, injuries and problems. The European Commission’s report gave hope for a greater understanding of the importance of measures that actually dampen the purchasing pressure, the drinking pressure and the consumption of alcohol — in short, a more knowledge-based alcohol policy. The treatment of the new Media Directive has become a test piece for the EU in this context. During the last year, there were various signals on the EU’s position on the continuation of the Norwegian derogation in the framework of the new EU media directive. The Norwegian side has argued consistently and clearly about the significance of this, and that is good. But in mid-August, a response came from the European Commission that was very disappointing. The EU Commission would not grant Norway any derogation from the new Directive. I noticed that then State Secretary Lahnstein of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs commented on this as follows: "These are pure words for money. The EU says that the internal market is one that weighs heavily, not Norwegian public health arguments.’ Again, we received a demonstration that market concerns are ahead of health concerns in the priorities of the European Commission. It is known that, in an exchange of letters with the Norwegian authorities, the European Commission has stated that Norway, instead of maintaining its derogation, can act as Sweden and conclude agreements with other European countries to ensure that these do not allow alcohol advertising in television broadcasts aimed specifically at the Norwegian population. EU Ambassador to Norway, János Herman, said last summer that «if Norway implements the Audiovisual Services Directive, there will be no problems for the current system of advertising bans». I noticed that such an assessment was quickly rejected by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The current Secretary of State Lahnstein said this: ‘The EU ambassador tries to sell this as the EU has given Norway important concessions. But it is not possible for us to see it." I share that assessment. As far as we are aware of the situation in Sweden, the line to which the European Commission refers has not led up to the target, i.e. the prevention of alcohol advertising in television broadcasts aimed at Sweden — rather the opposite. New figures from our neighbouring country show a sharp increase in alcohol advertising via the six television channels that send from the United Kingdom. The alcohol producers bought TV advertising for 366 million. Swedish TV in 2010, which according to the drug organisation IOGT-NTO is almost a double in two years. This is true despite the fact that Sweden, like Norway, has a general ban on the use of alcohol advertising on television. Against this background, it is very disappointing that the European Commission will be passing through the new TV directive in a way that opens up more alcohol advertising on television screens in Norwegian homes. It would be equally disappointing if the government were to give in to the views of the European Commission and give up the Norwegian legislation, which Norway was accepted to maintain at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. I know it is unnecessary to recall that the continuation of the alcohol policy regime was an important prerequisite for the crucial support of the Christian People's Party to the constitutional majority to which the EEA Agreement could be adopted in this Chamber. Such a declaration would, in order to quote again the political direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, imply that: “We go from a situation where we have 100 percent robust protection, to a situation where we are uncertain about how effectively we can protect ourselves from alcohol advertising on TV.” I am aware that the marketing of alcohol can take place through different media, and that the Internet poses new challenges, but it must not be used as an argument to minimize the advertising power of television or to circumvent what is the subject of today's debate. There is, of course, a reason why the alcohol industry spends a lot of resources on television advertising. The conflict is now about alcohol advertising in ‘the specifically directed television broadcasts’ against Norway. If we specify this scan, it could be the first step in a negative direction. A recent report, published yesterday by our country, documents the pressure already exerted against the Norwegian advertising ban in other media. Increased alcohol pressure through television is the last time Norway needs it. The Christian People's Party has consistently stated that Norway must maintain the exception we have had for a long time. There may be alternative ways to do this, but, as far as we can see, the use of the right of reservation against this part of the Directive is now the safest legal way to avoid alcohol advertising on Norwegian television. The right to refrain from implementing directives – or, more specifically, demarcated parts of them – is part of the EEA Agreement. The derogation we have cannot, of course, be removed without the consent of Norway. If there is alcohol advertising on television in Norway, it is not due to the EEA Agreement as such, but to a lack of political will in the government to adhere to today’s legislation. It is against this background that I have raised this interpellation, and there are at least three key questions that I hope the Foreign Minister will shed light on in his answer. Firstly, will the government maintain the derogation that Norway has had since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement and that gives Norway the right to prohibit the advertising of alcohol in television broadcasts addressed to Norway from abroad? Secondly, what is the government’s assessment of the type of agreements to which the European Commission refers as a possible substitute for today’s exemption? And in concrete terms: the government has examined more closely what Sweden has achieved through such agreements with other countries, and to what extent this has prevented alcohol advertising in shipments targeting Sweden, for example. United Kingdom? And thirdly, does the government see other, adequate solutions that can give us an equally secure and effective ban on alcohol advertising on Norwegian television as today's derogation from the EEA Agreement gives us? From the Christian People's Party, it is not an end in itself to use the right of reservation – but it is not an end either. To make a political assessment of the appropriateness of using the right of reservation in a case like this, it is our opinion that this case is large enough for Norway to do so and that it is small enough for the EU to have no negative impact on Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement if we use this right of reservation. But as I said, there's no goal in itself. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs can come up with other and better methods that guarantee that we avoid alcohol advertising on Norwegian TV screens – because I think a large majority, both in the Norwegian people and here in the Chamber, want to avoid – then we would like to listen to such convincing arguments. I take it for granted that there is a broad desire to maintain our national rules, and I hope we can still agree to say no to weaken the protection we have currently had against alcohol advertising, even in the case of the specially targeted television broadcasts against Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e522	The government wants to continue a restrictive line for alcohol advertising. It is worth recalling at the beginning of this debate that the Norwegian total ban on alcohol advertising is established — with long-standing social and public health reasons. This means that nothing about what is now proposed will underpin this main principle that is in force in Norway. In the assessment of the EU's Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the government has also stressed the possibility of maintaining a ban on alcohol advertising, including in combating the possibility of advertising arising in so-called targeted broadcasts from abroad. Firstly, on the content of this Directive: it establishes a framework for television broadcasting activities and is intended to ensure the unaltered transmission of television broadcasts within the EEA territory. The Directive lays down minimum advertising requirements. This means that it does not prevent countries from having stricter national provisions. Therefore, Norway’s total ban on alcohol advertising in all media under Norwegian jurisdiction will be in line with the Directive and will be continued. The ban on advertising is an important means of preventing harmful consumption of alcohol by the government. The government's attitude is that this principle view applies to all types of alcohol advertising. Therefore, when incorporating the Directive into the EEA Agreement, we take the view that the ban on alcohol advertising in targeted consignments from abroad can also be maintained. In contact with the EU side, Norway found it natural that this was confirmed by a continuation of the written derogation we have after today’s TV directive. It would make the legal framework clear. However, we must note that this did not happen. The EU side insisted, for its part, on the principle of a level playing field for the EEA as a whole — not an unknown argument from that border. It is natural to put this into a broader perspective: over the last 20 years, we have experienced a technological development that has created completely new conditions in the international media image. We know the reality: images, messages and impressions cross borders in ways that were unique only a few years ago. Yeah, they were probably pretty uninterested when we had our debate here early in the 1990s. It is itself a challenge in many areas in relation to the ability of national authorities to regulate in the area of their national jurisdiction. It is a fact that these realities create significant challenges. Today, in a Norwegian magazine kiosk, we can buy international magazines with alcohol advertising — right across the street for this hall. So alcohol advertising is available in the Norwegian media market. We also get this challenge through satellite television. From the great sky, a significant number of households in Norway have access to many dozens of satellite channels. Among these, there is a good deal of alcohol advertising. Now we have to put this in perspective. I do not believe that this fundamentally threatens the ban on alcohol advertising within Norwegian jurisdiction. As I said, there is a total ban on advertising in Norway, and that is also a reality in almost all contexts. But evolution challenges us to think new and creatively. We need to take the debate and the commitment to limit the turnover of alcohol to arenas outside Norway. There's the interpellant and I totally agree. We need to get our partners into a discussion about alcohol, about measures to limit alcohol, about the importance of advertising for marketing and availability, to mention something. This discussion must be taken in Europe and internationally. There are, as the interpellant says, many counter forces. However, the government believes that this is a matter of importance, especially when we look at the health and social objectives set by the vast majority of European countries in limiting alcohol turnover — and let me say: with limited success because turnover and consumption are growing despite current instruments. Following an overall assessment, the government proposes that Norway go in to include the Audiovisual Media Services Directive in the EEA Agreement. The government assumes that Norway may continue the ban on alcohol advertising in corrected consignments even if the written exemption falls away. As we see it, this will not conflict with the content of the directive. The Directive allows for stricter national rules to be applied also to consignments from other countries if the consignments are essentially addressed to Norway. Our general ban is based on sound health policy. It is also consistent with developments in the EU and internationally, where public health concerns are growing. Several EU countries have a restrictive position on alcohol advertising. Around 20 countries have national provisions on alcohol advertising which are more restrictive than the minimum requirements of the Directive. These provisions vary from prohibitions, as in Sweden and France, to less restrictive ones. In their view, the Swedish authorities are in line with us in television advertising for alcohol. They are now assessing how this line can most effectively be enforced. The guiding principle of the AMT Directive is the broadcasting state principle. The starting point is that advertising may be sent throughout the EEA territory if the advertising complies with the requirements of the Directive and the detailed regulations of the sending State. As a starting point, only the sending State has jurisdiction over media service providers. Therefore, the general rule under the Directive is that the country of destination will be obliged to receive the consignments and forward them on its territory. However, the AMT Directive provides for derogations from this general rule. The AMT Directive establishes minimum harmonisation of the rules of the Member States on audiovisual media services. It is clear from Article 4(4) of the Directive that: 1 that Member States may lay down stricter rules for media service providers under their own jurisdiction in the fields covered by the Directive. However, it is assumed that any stricter rules comply with general principles of EU and EEA law. The general prohibition of alcohol advertising by Norway does not conflict with the EEA obligations. The EFTA Court has stated that it has no reason to doubt that there are serious social and health considerations underlying the Norwegian alcohol policy in general and the prohibition of alcohol advertising in particular. The Norwegian ban on alcohol advertising is both appropriate and necessary to achieve the protection of public health that Norway wants. At the discretion of the government, the minimum requirements of the directive will not be sufficient to protect public health in the same way as I have pointed out. Thus, the ban on advertising alcohol in all media under Norwegian jurisdiction will, at the discretion of the government, comply with the AMT Directive. It allows for stricter national rules to also apply to consignments from other countries, where the consignments are essentially addressed to Norway, so-called specifically directed consignments. It would undermine the ability and access of Member States to lay down stricter rules where national regulations cannot be invoked against specially directed consignments. The need for protection is the same regardless of whether the alcohol advertising is sent from Norway or another EEA country. If a broadcaster established outside Norway sends directed consignments of alcohol advertising and intends to circumvent Norwegian legislation, Norway may take measures to enforce the Norwegian rules following the use of the procedures and under the conditions laid down in the Directive. The Directive provides for a consultation mechanism to ensure that the principles of the sending State and cases where a directed consignment are contrary to a stricter national law and national authorities of the receiving State wish to enforce enforcement are taken into account. The sending State will then have an obligation to request the broadcaster to act in accordance with the rules in question in the country of destination. Therefore, in cases where Norway considers that a consignment is in breach of Norwegian law and this is a case of circumvention attempts, the authorities of the sending State must first be consulted. If a request from the transmitting country does not result, ESA shall be informed of the measures requested by the Norwegian authorities. With regard to the enforcement of the alcohol ban, possible penalties for infringements of the alcohol ban will be imposed on correction, periodic penalty payments, fines and prison sentences. The penalties provided for are in accordance with the law on alcohol, broadcasting and related regulations. Under the former Television Directive, the Norwegian exemption, which allowed the prohibition of alcohol advertising in direct mail, has been enforced by written contact from the Directorate of Health to the companies concerned with information on the ban on alcohol advertising, as well as by a request for companies to comply with Norwegian law. The companies have previously complied with such a request. It has therefore not been necessary to implement further enforcement measures. Following the inclusion of the AMT Directive in the EEA Agreement, the Health Directorate will continue to address companies that violate the Norwegian ban on alcohol advertising and will ask the companies to comply with Norwegian legislation. We assume that they will continue to follow this request. If such a request is not followed, it will be necessary to follow the procedures set out in the Directive before direct enforcement is implemented. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive is expected to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement during 2012, following the implementation of the necessary preparations for decision of the EEA Committee. Since the implementation of the Directive requires amendments to Norwegian legislation, the Broadcasting Act, the consent of the Storting must then be obtained and the necessary legislative changes adopted. It is only after these procedures have been implemented that the Directive will apply to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e573	The Foreign Minister’s response is both expected and alarming – expected because it is entirely consistent with the current government’s approach, namely to stand up to the pressure from the EU on changes in Norwegian legislation as a result of changes in EU directives, and surprising because the government is opting out of the option that could put us completely outside this part of EU legislation, namely a reservation, but chooses to clearly define Norwegian legislation as within the new EU rules. From the Christian People's Party we will say that we are 100 pst. is behind a government that wants to fight for the legislation as it is, and wants to enforce the legislation as it is, with all the instruments under Norwegian law. There should be no doubt about it. That is why, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs so clearly marks the government's will for this today. We see that as a saying to the matter. We have no intention of acting in any way that could weaken the position of the government there. However, the government assumes a great responsibility with the declaration and strong positioning that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has chosen to take on the matter here in Stortinget today, for now one must actually also deliver. This means that the government has taken responsibility for the continuation of the Norwegian ban on television advertising in its entirety and is to be closely followed up by the Norwegian authorities, if necessary by the Norwegian Government, to other countries, the so-called sending states, and to the EU. We will, like the government, assume that this is the way the Minister of Foreign Affairs says. We fully agree that the Norwegian ban is soundly justified on health grounds, we fully agree that it is appropriate and necessary to implement a public health policy in accordance with the knowledge we have about the effects of alcohol and advertising, and we also fully agree that that policy must be pursued. We are anticipating the follow-up of it by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e582	Politics is generated by political work, oppositions that can challenge the current state, where much of the debate in Norway on legislation is about seeking guarantees. I think most people who are engaged in this room know that politics is not just about guarantees. It's about political work, and it's about making it possible to get an overview of things that maybe not everyone initially shares, but that over time, if you believe enough and that's well-founded, you can win. I think this is such an area that is suitable for that kind of political work. I'm not standing here and I can guarantee what the different bodies are going to think about the different directives and their implementation, but I'm standing here on behalf of a government that has a strong faith on that line, as the representative Højbråten here says, using far-reaching tools to prevent the advertising of alcohol as a main strategy to limit alcohol consumption. I think that over time this will be something that also applies in EU countries. The representative was concerned about the high consumption in the EU area — that is, the area in the world where most alcohol is consumed, where the health damage and early death caused by alcohol are highest in the world, and where different instruments have not proved suitable for achieving the goals set. Different forms of the marketing of alcohol, including advertising in traditional media and marketing through film and other advertising, have an impact on young people’s starting to drink, and affect the drinking pattern of young people negatively. We have recorded that the EU has set objectives of reducing the adverse effects of alcohol consumption, reducing and limiting advertising targeting children and young people, and has a strategy that runs out in 2012 and is about to launch a new debate on how to respond to this. Therefore, it is an appropriate time for us to say that we base the directive and maintain our legislation – not to protect a Norwegian market participant, not to break principles of the internal market, but to achieve health policy professional objectives. And then we get to stand in that fight and argue well with the many countries and groupings that share our perception. That will be the government's position. Without going into it very much, I think that in this way we will get into a much more active input of political change forces in Europe than if we had opted for the right to reserve, which had actually put this issue on the side, and could have created complications further forward that would have put us in a much more passive role in terms of influencing. We're going to have to take the challenges that come here, in the certainty that we have a good thing. And then we get to fight it with the means available to Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e595	I will first be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important question, and an even greater thank you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for having given a confirmatory response to the important challenge posed by the interpellant. The answer is short and good: it is not appropriate to lift the Norwegian ban on alcohol advertising. And we intend to enforce it. I also feel that there is reason to stress quite clearly that the introduction of all EU directives is the subject of specific decision-making. This also applies in this case. I find it difficult to see that this assembly, with the composition it now has, would come to the conclusion that the Norwegian alcohol advertising ban could be lifted. The Directive itself does not provide any guidance on how Norway regulates alcohol advertising in television channels under Norwegian jurisdiction. The vast majority of EU countries have rules on alcohol advertising. Some have regulations that go beyond the Directive. Four countries have a general ban on all forms of alcohol advertising on television. This applies to France, Slovenia, Sweden and Lithuania. EEA law recognises that the protection of public health can provide a basis for exemptions from the principles of free movement of goods and services, and countries have a high degree of freedom to determine the level of protection they wish to enjoy in order to protect public health. We are therefore insisting that Norway will make use of this option, and the directive states that Norway can take action against actors established in another country in order to circumvent stricter legislation in Norway. There is little doubt as to the extent of the alcohol damage. It is also raised in doubt that the ban on advertising has clear grounds for health policy. This would be in line with the intentions of the directive when we maintain an alcohol advertising ban. The EU position in this matter is, in my view, quite amazing. The question then is, Should this lead to the lifting of our ban on alcohol advertising? Now, of course, it is hardly possible to shield Norwegian consumers from being exposed to such advertising – it is on the Internet, in foreign publications imported into Norway, or in foreign television broadcasts that can be received directly by Norwegian consumers via satellite. In this case it is about so-called fixed television broadcasts. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has given us a clear recommendation. He wants to implement the directive and maintain the ban. Then it is my recommendation that we sit quite quietly in the boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e610	Every day and every weekend we are exposed to alcohol advertising. Every weekend when we sit down now in the winter and look at international broadcasts related to the screen, and when we sit down in the summer and look at Formula 1 or other car sports activities, we are exposed to alcohol advertising – every single time. When we go to the store or in the kiosk and buy magazines, we have the full opportunity to buy magazines where alcohol advertising is allowed. When we open our computers or our iPads, we can download publications, broadcasts, etc. at any time. who have alcohol advertising. The major issue in this matter raised by the interpellant, relating to the Audiovisual Services Directive, is whether or not the specific ban attached to television by Norway can be removed and maintained. It is about whether we should continue to be able to participate and decide what other countries allow for sending to Norway, and whether we can maintain that ban. Let me use an example, because I'm probably not as conclusionative as the council here. If e.g. A sports channel that sends to several countries, chooses to send from an event, comes up immediately in a situation where one can discuss: Is this broadcast specifically aimed at Norway, or is this a general sporting broadcast or a general event that means that one cannot claim that this is specifically aimed at Norway? You will already be able to get the first case against ESA. What is quite obvious is that when we first implement a directive and you don't use the right to reserve – if that's what you want – it's much harder to come back afterwards, when you're convicted by ESA, and say, no, we've interpreted it differently. – The reservation right has not been used. The undersigned and the Progressive Party are not particularly afraid that this Directive will be implemented. What you have to do – and I think that’s important – is work internationally to get one’s code, because we constantly come to the intersection of whether one or the other channel can send different kinds of advertising or entries that we don’t want in Norway. I'm not afraid of these things. EU countries are used as examples of countries with the highest alcohol consumption and the greatest alcohol-related harm. EU countries are not the only countries on this planet with alcohol advertising. There are actually a lot of places in the world, including places that have moderate consumption of alcohol compared to what we have here in the West. I don't think we're going to put this ball dead now, because this case is going to come back in some form. Now I am not afraid of the great adverse effect of seeing the alcohol advertising sent across Norwegian TV screens from abroad. Because when I turn on TV – I’m very happy with football – and e.g. sees a Carlsberg advertising in connection with English football and other football clubs, it's also TV advertising. But I don't think this government or anyone else will try to refuse Norwegian TV viewers to see, for example. Liverpool on the TV screens, although it might have been okay. The representative of Gullvåg was interested in sitting quietly in the boat. I don't think it matters if we sit quietly in the boat – or what we do. I think this case is going to come back. What I am interested in hearing from the Council of State is what assessments have been made in advance if, after implementing the Directive, you come into a situation where you disagree with the interpretation, and what opportunities you have to come back in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e625	I thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. The Norwegian ban on alcohol advertising is an important instrument in the Norwegian alcohol policy in keeping the consumption of alcohol down and thus ensuring public health, together with regulation of access and regulation of prices. The right also supports the line outlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his reply, namely a combination of being clear on the maintenance of the Norwegian ban, while actively working against the other countries in order to find the best possible solution to limit the harm or the potential of corrected television broadcasts. We are in the situation that EU countries are moving in many ways in the direction of Norway in terms of the instruments of alcohol policy. The EU is not just a system consisting of countries, and the EU is made up of people who see exactly the same challenges we see in Norway as regards the public health consequences of an excessive consumption of alcohol. Many of these countries see that the instruments they have used to date have not had the desired results. They see that both Norway and Sweden are countries that have managed to keep alcohol consumption down to a more moderate level — with the instruments that Norway and Sweden have used in particular, in combination with advertising bans, regulated access and charges. We are actually in the situation that a number of EU countries are moving in our direction. That means that we have a good case here, for these are views shared by more and more of our colleagues in Europe. The right will support the line on which the government has taken to work to maintain the Norwegian ban, while at the same time working politically to find good solutions. It will not be to sit quietly in the boat, but to work actively with an important question for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e638	Alcohol is the drug that causes most health damage and the biggest social problems. The World Health Organization defines alcohol as the third most important cause of early death and world-wide disability. I thought that it was really a paradox that the Norwegian potion had to discuss a matter at all if we were to allow TV advertising for alcohol or not. It's not the same for tobacco, because there are completely different holders, and it's accepted for the health damage that tobacco causes to the population. The EU has tried to push Norway to give up the 36-year-old ban on alcohol advertising through the new Audiovisual Media Directive and not to extend the exemption. There was a good reason why Norway has a restrictive alcohol policy line. People's greetings have been given priority over the release of the hall and advertising. Children's right to live the screens from alcohol in public space has been a proper priority. Then there is also a democratic problem when it's not the Norwegian people, the Norwegian public, or a political plurality that takes the initiative to change a good, wanted and lost alcohol policy. Nor is it the case that obtaining alcohol advertising on Norwegian screens is so important for other countries and other peoples, but the pressure for change has come as a result of the legalisation and liberalisation that is the very core wall of the so-called four freedoms of the EU system. Thus, a dynamic EEA agreement is once again undermining Norwegian democracy. The case of alcohol advertising is also an example of the fact that guarantees in the EEA Agreement are very often found to be defective. At the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, the Government stressed that the ban on alcohol advertising, which had been a difficult issue in the negotiation of the agreement, could be continued. It was warned that the ban could be taken up for new treatment in 1995, but in the staging proposition it was written: ‘The result of the issue of alcohol advertising is that EFTA countries may refuse retransmission into cable networks of alcohol advertising spots. [[...]] This derogation will be reviewed in 1995. If no agreement is reached at this point, the current provisions will continue.» It has been found that, at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, Stortingen’s insurance has encountered resistance to the EEA system. The monopoly on wine imports and wholesale was guaranteed, but already the year after the agreement entered into force, the monopoly on wine imports and spirits fell. Later, Norway lost a case before the EFTA Court of Justice for so-called ‘Rusbrus’. As of 1 July 2009, private imports of alcohol were banned, and it was lawful to bribe alcohol from abroad for private purposes — as pressure from ESA exerted. I am pleased with the Minister of Foreign Affairs' distribution and the clear message that the Norwegian ban on television advertising should be passed on, also against other countries. The ban is well-founded for health professionals. The centre party has always been aware that we cannot accept a system that allows us to receive alcohol advertising on Norwegian TV screens. We are not opposed to the AMT Directive itself, but we cannot accept the consequence that we have to accept alcohol advertising on Norwegian TV screens. So it was taken up in the debate that we have a ban on advertising in Norway in our own media. That's true. I have been busy that this advertising ban is also a reason to look at how it is being practised. Blue Cross produced a report on Monday, which shows that there are some hidden advertisements in Norwegian media that can also increase alcohol consumption in the population. There is a debate in itself, but as I think we must also take on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e658	Daily, we see the harmful consequences of alcohol use — both in Norway and in the rest of the world. Europe has the world’s highest alcohol consumption and the highest share of disease and early death from alcohol. There is a clear link between total alcohol consumption in the population and the extent of alcohol-related harm and problems. It is therefore essential to limit the availability and consumption of alcohol. Then advertising for alcohol is not the way to go. Advertising works. Advertising makes us buy more, and alcohol advertising makes us drink more. A 2007 study, presented by Sirus in 2010, shows a clear link between advertising costs and the sale of spirits, i.e. branded sales increased in line with increased advertising costs. Another study from 2010 highlights the importance of exposure to advertising and marketing for young people. Not surprisingly, this study concluded that alcohol advertising increases the likelihood of young people starting to drink and that those already drinking will drink more. This, combined with a lack of knowledge of the harmful effects of alcohol in many parts of the population, should be a clear warning that the alcohol advertising may have a negative impact. A large majority of the Health and Welfare Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, agreed in the budget position that: ‘The main lines of the alcohol policy must be fixed with a focus on limiting access and consumption’. This is positive, but then increased alcohol pressure is directly contradictory to Stortinget's intentions in alcohol policy. The conflict now stands if alcohol advertising is going to get right into our living rooms through foreign broadcasts. This is negative, especially with regard to children and young people, who are often more likely to affect advertising than adults. We have to be willing to take unpopular action. We know that there is a strong link between the use of restrictive measures on the one hand and alcohol consumption on the other. The measures that work here are often unpopular. It is where the alcohol policy is the hardest that consumption is the lowest. Change is possible. We have the knowledge, and we know the measures. If we work knowledge-based nationally and cooperate internationally, we can save lives and health for many. Norway, Europe and the world need politicians who clearly and clearly take sides for those suffering from drug abuse. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway should be tough enough to maintain the exception we have had for a long time. Unfortunately, industrial policy is the top priority in the EU — ahead of the health and social thinking that Norway has — and has had — in the area of alcohol regulation. However, increasingly EU policy-makers from different countries are also concerned with alcohol policy in a health perspective. This was the experience of the Health and Welfare Committee at its meeting in Brussels at the end of January this year. The European Commission’s proposal for a new health programme 2014-2020 has been submitted and will be discussed in the European Parliament under the Danish Presidency. In fact, there has been a growing emphasis on prevention. Interestingly, Finland, as another Nordic country, has already pointed out that there is too little emphasis on combating lifestyle factors, and they mention tobacco and alcohol in particular. This is worth noting, and it can give hope for a better alcohol policy in the future, too, in the EU. Finally, I have to say that only time will show whether the government's solution will be good enough. But I am glad that the government has come to meet the Christian People's Party a good deal on the way by saying that even if you implement the directive, you will equally fully uphold the Norwegian advertising ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e688	This debate confirms the broad consensus expressed in this Chamber on the importance of maintaining the ban on alcohol advertising in all media and – we must add – as far as possible. There have been – and are – holes in the ban, as many have pointed out. We can buy international newspapers and magazines with advertising, and satellite antennas represent a channel that goes around the advertising ban. We can't regulate that. But there is no argument to open up advertising also in directed broadcasts or, in general, advertising in Norwegian newspapers or on Norwegian television. To what Nesvik pointed out, I think there's a difference between seeing a poster with a name for a beer label on a football field, or maybe a commercial sign in a city when you see the Tour de France, and having an advertisement. There's a significant difference. I think the government has found a good way to deal with the directive, and I am pleased with the positive reaction of the inter-pellant to it. This should be widely welcomed. As regards the question of using the reservation options in this case, the starting point is that the sending State has jurisdiction over the media service providers. So not implementing this directive would hardly be an instrument to protect us from alcohol advertising in targeted consignments. It is the Norwegian provisions that, in cooperation with the broadcasters and the country from which the broadcasts are sent through the consultation mechanism provided for by the Directive, can give us the effect we are after. The European investigation, which has just arrived, says that after their assessment, the room for action for adaptation is larger than we may have thought and used, but – they say – it assumes that we are working within the system and not against the system. What we are doing now is implementing the directive, and we can then use the consultation mechanisms of the directive. Had we not implemented the directive, we would have been outside, and the possibilities of achieving what we were supposed to do in this case might not have been simpler, but rather more difficult. So the interpellant in his first post said that if we used the reservation capability, it would not harm our relationship with the EU. I want to comment on this expression, because it's from someone other than the interpellant right now that there's a certain eagerness to use this reservation right. In political quarters today, I had a debate with the head of the Central Party, Navarsete, who used the expression that she did not believe the EU would blacklist Norway if we used the right to reserve, for example. the agency directive. When I mention it, it's because it's important that in the debate around this we put aside the kind of thinking and concepts, because it's not about it. It is not about harming our relationship with the EU. It is not about the EU wanting to blacklist us or go to countermeasures. It is about what is regulated in the EEA Agreement. We have reservation options, prescribed procedure twice six months, etc., and if – Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein – continue to insist that the Directive will not be included, yes, the area to which the Directive applies should be repealed. It's not about blacklisting, and it's not about bad relationships. It's about following the agreement. There'll be a hole in the deal. We have two major gaps in the agreement: agricultural policy and fisheries policy. We can get a third or fourth hole if we make a reservation. It's completely tidy and all right. However, the more void the agreement becomes, the more areas it is that are not protected by legislation in the internal market. Because it is not just that we do not have EU legislation in Norway; it is about Norwegian companies in the areas where the agreement has been abandoned are not protected by the common legislation when they export. I can use one example: because the fisheries policy is not covered by the EEA Agreement, the EU has been able to bring with us dumping charges for salmon. They would not be able to do so if fish had been covered by the EEA Agreement and the legislation had protected salmon exporters. It's on the side of the content of the debate and the content of the interpellation, but I think it's important that we keep track of what a reservation implies in the future, and what it does not involve, even though it's not a matter of using it in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e705	I understand very well the representative Hansen's need to give a lecture on the questions he raised in the last part of his speech, but it hears well, with respect to reporting, more at home in an internal seminar among the government parties than in the storeroom just during the treatment of this matter. For this reason, it was a pity that the two government parties to whom this post had an address were not present during the presence of the representative. They must have enjoyed that. Back to the case: I think it has been a good round. I have rarely heard a representative of this government speak so clearly and unequivocally about the importance of a restrictive alcohol policy and about the follow-up to the alcohol policy instruments Norway has, with which we have good experience, and which we are proud of, but which have not always been practised and followed up as well, and which were documented in the report presented by our country on Monday. That is why this debate is important in itself. It is also important that the government now alerts an international, or at least European, offensive in terms of a more restrictive alcohol policy, because it is actually one of the most effective things we can do to combat one of the main causes of sickness and early death, not least on our own continent. It's worked before. In 2005, the Bondevik II government took such an initiative through the Nordic Council of Ministers and brought the Nordic countries with it an offensive against the World Health Organisation, which resulted in a new and strengthened alcohol strategy in the WHO today, signed by all the world’s countries. What also happened afterwards was that the EU, which was also the subject of the Nordic advance, adopted an alcohol strategy in 2007. It is rather weak, but it is the first time that the EU has an alcohol strategy on health, not just on industrial policy and trade. So it's useful. That is why I would strongly encourage the Minister of Foreign Affairs to take up this work, which he has now announced with great seriousness. It will receive great support from the Christian People's Party. To the question of advertising, it is not strange what Norway has. A ban on advertising and the marketing of spirits exists in 11 EU countries. France, Sweden and Norway all have a ban on advertising alcoholic beverages, otherwise in some media. 17 countries are subject to time-limits. In other words, it is an instrument which has quite broad support within the European Union itself. That is why it is important that we stand firm, that we stick to our legislation. So now, after making such a commitment to follow this up, the government will show that in practice it will be able to do it as well. Finally, since I see I can take advantage of the change of president for a moment, I would say that I am very pleased with the Right clear support for this line. It's important for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e721	I too would like to thank you for a good debate, and I would like to thank you for what I really saw as a unanimous position in this Chamber. I couldn't see any serious deviation here, and it's positive. As an old sailor, I will remain in my party colleague’s representative Gullvågs metaphor – whether it’s right to sit quietly in the boat. It's wise to go out into demanding waters. But I think we're going to prepare for that. We're going to the waters where there's wind, where there's conflicting interests, and where there's a requirement for the boat, both how we rig the ship, and at which course we set. It's true, as the representative of the Højbrätten says, that we have to think European. But we also have to think globally. Tomorrow, for the first time, the government is presenting the global health report. I think it'll get an interesting follow-up here in the hall. I know that the interpellant is going to engage in the follow-up to this message. I'm going to start tonight, in a dinner with the head of the World Health Organization in Oslo, discussing these matters. So it's quite obvious that this is a policy area in development. Someone might claim that what we're doing now is bold, but we have to be bold in some areas if we want to be involved and shape and shape a development. Not only to have a seminar, which the representative Højbråten warned against, but also to the representative Hansen, by saying that we could influence this legislation more effectively by setting up our cooperation in Europe in a different way. But there is not one thing here today. We get to work as best we can in the current situation. Finally, I would like to say to the representative Nesvik, who was concerned that he saw Liverpool with alcohol advertising on his back, that I think he will continue to do that, in tipping games, in the middle of Norwegian newspapers and in other media outlets. This world isn't going to be perfect from a notion that you shouldn't see any signs of alcohol advertising anywhere. That's not how it's possible to set up. However, it is possible to argue public health policy for the importance of the ban on alcohol in order to limit turnover. It's not a protectionist measure, it's not a strange measure, but it's an experience argument that we can include in debates and where we have a lot of fellow players. I choose to believe that the debate that the European Union is going to hold when they renew their policies in this area will take on board many of the comments we have. Then I was asked: What if we were to experience getting the thumb down, that there are legal cases of one nature or another, and that there are judgements in ESA and the EFTA Court? Well, we'll get to the challenges if and if they come. We are also not inactionless or alternative in such a situation. So it's in this room that we're going to adopt Norwegian laws, and we're going to evaluate the framework within which we're going to achieve the goals that I'm being raised by experiencing that everyone who's had posts here really agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e736	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e752	We want the railway to be so attractive that it becomes the natural first choice for the whole country where it is possible, both for travellers and for business. We have to make the railway so good that the car fades in comparison, that the train is the first choice, and that it will be a good experience where you, as a customer, really feel that you are the midpoint! Train provision is an important part of the transport system and rail is an environmentally friendly, high-capacity alternative. There are today many who have the train as a fixed companion to and from work, studies and other. Therefore, it is important that we manage to make the railway the natural first choice for travellers – to a greater extent than today. Otherwise, I believe that the railway of the future has little chance of competing with other means of transport. Passengers in 2012 have very high standard requirements – for regularity, frequent departures, simple ticket handling, sufficient seating and comfort. In order to make the railway attractive for the future, it is possible to make the best use of the rail resources allocated to the State budget. But having to carry out a train revolution with today's organisation of the railway sector is like cleaning up a house without first repairing known water damage and fungal deposits. We have to recognize that the structure of the railway is adapted to the 1900s. We need a new organisation, a structure that makes us give total planning, funding and quality priority in the offer. I think two methods can get us on the right track. One is the launching of competition and the other is the reorganisation of the railway sector. First, to the outsourcing of competition. We have a railway in Norway that is exposed to competition: the Gjøvik Railway. The Gjøvik Railway transports many travelers every day and binds Hadeland closer to Oslo and Oslo closer to Hadeland. This railway was put at a competitive disadvantage by the previous civil government as a pilot project. The Transport Economic Institute evaluated the competitive outlook last November, in 2011. The conclusions are clear, and I quote from TØI-Report 1104/2010: ‘The report concludes that many of the objectives of the competitive outsourcing have been achieved. This concerns the objectives of reducing costs, combined with better train provision and higher passenger numbers. The profits have been achieved without any deterioration in the working conditions of employees. Reduced costs, better train provision and higher passenger numbers are in line with European experience. The potential for public governance can also be said to be strengthened, since the Ministry of Transport has gained increased knowledge and competence of the railway as a result of the process and thus has better conditions to impose requirements on the design of passenger transport services by train.» What can you say about this? Yes, right-wing policy works. It is not by chance that the Gjøvik track is the distance where the NSB has started to sell tickets through an ‘app’ on the mobile phone! The outsourcing of a train company gives a strong incentive to business development. Private companies know that customer satisfaction must be the focus. In addition, this indicates that the NSB can. We won the Gjøvik track. What does this mean for the travellers? Well, it could mean a tram from Halden to Bodø, or a caravan with a preschool teacher for kids going to and from mother and father. We can only see to Denmark. From Aarhus to Copenhagen such trains go. In the mouth of the people, you can only imagine what such a train is called. In any case, this is an answer to the needs that ensure the children a good experience and a safe and secure offer, which all divorced parents are looking for good solutions. The Danish railway has found it. Nor should you forget all those who long for a restaurant car with white dolls, a proper menu and pleasant conversations over the dinner table on Bergensbanen while it blows cold over Hardangervidda outside. It can also mean superfast Internet access. It can mean greater punctuality, more stable operation and many other characteristics. Competition concession means that the government is given the opportunity to make strict demands on the supplier, which can give us all an even better train offer and more – not only more left for the money, but also more left for the travellers. My challenge to the Minister of Transport is therefore: why can we not allow companies such as Deutsche Bahn, the State Railways, Veolia or other solid and interested railway experts to try to drive our trains better? So for reorganization: the first method was outsourcing, the next method is reorganization of Norwegian railways. Although it may be early to conclude, it appears that Sweden has had great success in setting up the Swedish Transport Agency. Here, the responsibility for detail was transferred to one department, which itself could organise and plan expansions, raise loans, etc. Of course, the Transport Agency has overall objectives set by politicians, but they are free to make the most of their resources effectively. The right will consider sharing the Railway Agency with two companies. So how can this be done? One option is to form a large-scale company, a state-owned limited liability company, and to provide for the administration, development and operation of railway infrastructure – with considerable freedom of priority, so that it is released from the Stortinget and the Ministry's detailed management board. Of course, the size of the population adopts the general guidelines, but so detail does not control the priorities. And the big company takes care of rails and stations. In addition, for example: create an independent safety oversight ensuring that the operation on the rails and the quality of the infrastructure meets safety requirements. My challenge to the Minister of Transport will be: Is she willing to organise the rail sector more effectively? Much is going well in Norway, but we still have to prepare for major challenges in the future. The right is committed to ensuring Norwegian welfare by focusing more on knowledge and competitiveness. To lift Norway into the future, we need a more modern railway. Then we also have to be willing to think new. I would also like to mention that the Right has started work on a new railway strategy towards the 2013 elections. Here we will dry up to take the grips that the government does not dare to take. It is high time we started a well-considered winding-up of the train monopoly by offering several routes. This is how we can build a diverse, powerful and knowledgeable railway environment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e797	Train traffic performance is increasing. She is now approaching the goal for 2013 if nine out of ten trains in a route. Passenger numbers are increasing, and the government has done a lot to develop a good train offer for travellers. We increase our effort year by year, and of course, using resources as best we can is the basis for all the options we take on different issues. This government is investing in the railways. I'd like to say something about this. A short time ago, the Ministry of Transport and the NSB concluded a new six-year framework agreement for the period 2012-2017 on the purchase of passenger transport services by train. The contract provides for improvement in both quality and capacity. New and modern trains will be put into service in 2012 and 2013, both to replace old out-of-date material and to increase train capacity. There will be improvements in route provision from December 2012, not least when the new base for the Ausland area comes into place from 2014. There will be more and more pervasive departures at fixed times every hour. In the traffic contract, mechanisms have been put in place to make it attractive for the NSB to carry the most passengers possible. By adding quality objectives and requirements to the agreement, the NSB will have even greater reason to provide good service to train passengers. A good and powerful train supply depends, of course, on an operationally safe infrastructure. A few years ago, the infrastructure turned out to be in a worse state than the railway system had previously accounted for. The government has invested significantly in the operation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure, far beyond the amount envisaged in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. In addition, promises are made for the extensive renewal work in the Oslo project. A total renewal of the railway infrastructure is carried out in an area where errors cause significant negative ringing effects for large parts of the railway network. At the same time, improvements in capacity and quality are being made in modernising the railway system. In 2011 we opened three major railway facilities: The West Corridor, the very seat for the creation of a new base route model from 2014 new double track between Barkåker and Tønsberg on the Vestfoldbanen Gevingåsen tunnel on Trønderbanen In 2012, three major investment projects will be under way at the same time. It shall be payable: double-track Holm–Nykkerke and Farriseidet–Porsgrund on Vestfoldbanen, and the double-track track track track Langset–Kleiverud on Dovrebanen The extensions shall provide for a more operationally secure railway with reduced travel time. In this way, it is also possible to increase train capacity in the train supply in the intercity corridors. I am reasonably sure that one must go back in railway history to find that there is so much investment in construction in the railway sector at the same time as under this government. The train line and train equipment have a major impact on each other and determine the quality of the train they receive. This is the case with railway operations. Organisation, responsibility and division of tasks are important themes. The sector is now composed of more players than just a few years ago. Not least this is the case with the permission of this train company to operate on the Norwegian rail network. Good coordination to ensure good regularity and punctuality is now at least as important as before. For the last few years, the Railway Agency has been given the task of taking a clear responsibility for the soundness of the operation of heavy traffic on our network. The railway works now set requirements for, and they follow up, the train companies to a much greater extent than has been the case in the past. What we are about to do about the renewal and modernisation of the railways in Norway is asking for fruits, even if the improvement of the railways cannot be achieved overnight. The representative of Schou is busy thinking holistically. That's what I'm saying in my heart. The rail system is an integrated system where the infrastructure and train provision are more closely linked than in the other transport sectors. For this reason, I am in the direction of the ETAs and Avinor’s work on the draft National Transport Plan for 2014-2023 busy seeing the development of the infrastructure and train provision in the context. The significance of this is further reinforced in the railway group's report that I received last November. In order to obtain the most return on infrastructure investments that are being carried out, they need to be able to trigger improvements in train provision for passengers as quickly as possible. In two days' time, I will receive a concept evaluation for the intercity sections of the Railway Agency. This is an unusually big deal. It also has our points of view. This is how you can see these lines below and get the conceptual options that lead to them. I have also asked the Railway Agency to advise on the choice of development strategy. The development of train provision must be the driving force behind the choice of implementation strategy. Intercity traffic must be linked to the close traffic, long-distance traffic and freight traffic and must provide a whole range of these routes. In preparation for the roll-out of the national transport plan, a number of arrangements have been made with clear border surfaces against the various train sections and existing infrastructure facilities. It has been important for me to stress that the arrangements are well coordinated in order to maintain the soundness of future plans for the development of the network. Another clear message from the railway group is to define more clearly where we want to bet on the train as a future means of transport. Priority will be given to the main task of the new transport plan that the government will present to the Stortinget in early 2013. Health and efficiency are also linked to how we plan infrastructure projects in Norway. The planning system should and must take care of a number of important democratic values and rights. However, it is now a challenge that the planning of large infrastructure projects in the road and rail sectors often takes a long time. The government budget deficit debate for 2012 showed that there is a need for action to reduce the long-term planning period. I then announced that I would set up a working group that was tasked with making proposals for concrete efficiency measures. The working group is scheduled to deliver its report to me by 1 April this year. I look forward to the group making constructive proposals on how we can work smarter and more effectively at all stages at the same time as we take care of the important democratic values of our planning system. Let me also stress that for the transport projects that are being launched, it is important that these are implemented as cost-effectively as possible, on the basis of standard and quality requirements of the installation. That means that, among other things. must be set up to the highest possible rational installation period in the implementation of the project. When it comes to discussions on project financing or alternative funding, I point out that in the context of the existing transport plan, the government chose a solution to create own posts on the state budget for large, high priority projects. Within the railway, the planning and development of Follobanen is selected as such. Of course, pre-financing is crucial for starting up such a large railway project. In the rolling of the national transport plan, I am open to considering alternative funding solutions. An important premise is that the options in this case must be developed faster and cheaper than normal government budget promises. I have therefore asked for an own statement on alternative forms of funding for transport infrastructure in order to have a good professional basis to assess this in greater detail. When it concerns the organisation of e.g. The Railway Agency, I believe, is the easiest organisation we have today as long as the entire financing of the infrastructure comes from the state, and no one else is willing or able to pay for the development of the railways in Norway. Today, the railway system also has many administrative tasks other than the planning and deployment of the rail network in Norway. Experience from other countries is important to include in the assessment. There was no success in what was done in England. Denmark tried a company solution for the infrastructure manager with mixed experience. Banedanmark was again part of the state with the same organisation as in the Norwegian system. I've pointed out that the government has done a lot to improve the situation for the railway, and we're going to stand on for an even better train supply. Organisation and funding are only part of a larger health centre, where the main issue is: What role do we want the railways to play in the Norwegian transport market in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e863	I would like to thank the State Council for its feedback on my post. It is very gratifying that the Council of State follows up on what has been the Right message for a long time, that we have to look at the planning system, thus setting up a working group – to know what the government is going to mean after that. The signals are good. Nor is it surprising that the Council of State is concerned about telling the government what it is doing. I think that is very good, because none of what is now happening within Norwegian railway – with new trains, a timetable, which should have come at least last year, as many passengers as possible, and that you should have a pace increase in new tracks – is right-wing disagreement. The question that has been brought to the square is: What ambition do Norwegian railways have? When it comes to having as many passengers as possible on the same train, I think many commuters today would say: Yes, we are already standing as a herring in a barrel. The challenge is enough to increase the comfort, seating and currency of the train ticket you pay for. That the Council of State wants to talk about what the government has done is not surprising, but the ambitions are the challenge. Goods are going on their way today – and not the other way around. So it's going in the wrong direction. The ambitions must be more than merely to point to the routes that have now been developed. In this way, I am very pleased with everything that is being improved in terms of rail, but it requires – compared to what we see in Europe and the demands of customers for railway comfort and development – new measures, new promises and new ambitions. It is important that train development also needs to be coordinated with the development of collective provision elsewhere in the country, in particular around large cities, in order to make full use of the potential. I refer in this respect to the collective plan that the Right has made on its own keel. It is also important that we have multiannual budgeting that provides predictability. This is something that the Right wants to look at, and we haven't concluded this clearly yet. It is important not just to follow each year's government budget, but to be able to see trends from start to finish. And, to quote one of the most central ones in the Railway Agency: it's a expectation for politicians that they can set a date for when the line is to be finished, and that you can work afterwards. We are concerned that we should maintain the railway and ensure an infrastructure, which the Council of State was also concerned with in its contribution. That is why we have also proposed the creation of a maintenance fund for both road and rail, of 50 billion. kr. A fixed framework would then be set up to provide good subsidies for the maintenance of the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e878	My ambition is to get a tip-top modern main road and rail network within 20 years. That means we have to allow more money, we have to plan faster, and we have to build smarter. My ambition in the short term is to ensure a much better train supply in and around the largest urban areas, and this is where the eastern region points out. I am very happy that there is now better space in the track. 50 new train sets have been purchased, which are phased in turn and in order. So it gives room for – the next few years – up to 26 pst. multiple train passengers. This means that there'll be better space, there'll be better routes, in the sense that people won't look at the clock, there'll be better comfort, and the punctuality is already better in 2012 than many dare hope. In total, collective provision will be a major issue in the next national transport plan. The budgets – in the proposal they put forward on 29 February – are asked to make proposals on how the state can participate more strongly than today. In the department we've reorganized, so we have a separate collective project, where one follows this. It has been demanding, I have to say, to spend so much time and energy on getting a better infrastructure – getting to a better turnout. I am very pleased that those who work at the Railway Station, in the NSB and in other train companies have turned around and stood on instead of giving up. Here's a culture for us to do this, and there's also – measurable – a lot more happy passengers. So it's fun for me to use the conditions like this to say what we've got. I understand very well that Injerd Schou talks a little about what they did for the railway when they sat in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e891	First of all, I want to thank them for being involved in rail transport, and I have the sense of the vision representative Schou shared with us, when she said that the first choice for the users should be to think, When is the train going? Trains are forward-looking and are the backbone of the collective offer. As a train commuter every day, I am glad that the trains are now more on track than they were a few years ago. It comes from the fact that the red-green government has tripled the means of investment and operation for railway purposes. It's noticed. Then the opposition in this room probably has to figure out that we're dancing a little bit, in the good name of ourselves. We can stand to release the cheer for it has now become better, especially we who take the train near Oslo. The Labour Party has two national decisions on project financing for large infrastructure measures. Of course, we will discuss this and include ourselves in the NTP work, because we want large projects to be realised. But 18 billion. kr to the distance Oslo–Ski is a lot, and it requires a separate round on how to do it. So the Right, as usual, believes that the solution is outsourcing, and they list all the needs that can be met with a future good train offer. Of course, it's funny with café cars, but I think commuters have even more need for trains on the way. We need the train to go when it needs to and that it gets where it needs to. The debate on the form of organisation is accommodating. Everything about efficiency is very offensive to the Workers' Party, but if we look up in the state budget for 2006, we'll find the budget line of 130 million. kr to double-track Sandvika-Asker – a project that at that time required several billion. It's not a vision for a better railway, and at least it's not effective. It meant that this whole double-track development almost stopped completely. The system had to be rigged up and down. It's not effective, it's bad use of community money, and it took longer to realize the railway. So these were right-wing visions at that time. So I think there's reason to point out that the Workers' Party does not want a big and broad debate with the Railway Agency on how to organise the future railway works, we need to focus on the planning capacity. If we're to realize all the great visions we have for the railways, we need more planning capacity, and we need faster planning processes. The construction of the double-track Oslo-Ski is based on a state regulatory plan. So let's save some time. But when we are going to build in a densely populated area, through the Old Town of Oslo, where people have lived for a thousand years, we will of course come across ancient cultural memories. That means that we need to spend a little bit more time documenting what we find in the Earth. Then, of course, the Labour Party should at any time stand up and discuss the competitive outsourcing with the Right. That's what we're looking forward to. There's a debate we're taking on many fronts, we're taking it on the railway front as well. But for the Workers' Party, this is not the solution, most of all because we know that private solutions are rarely cheaper. If it's about being effective, we think that it also has to be a point. It's the annual budgets we have for operation and maintenance that are becoming important. That's what the commuters see. Now commuters in the Oslo area see that trains are route. Then we can discuss future café offers on trains that go far, but I think we can be proud of what we are doing. Then we have some challenges in front of us, we're not going to hide it. Large visions must be followed up with money and efficient forms of financing. The Labour Party has adopted this twice at the national meeting, and we'll be happy to discuss it, but I think we'll take care of ourselves a little bit to get in the trap that if we just reorganize the Railway Agency, everything will work out. That's one too simple solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e912	I thought that now we're really going to start discussing, that the interpellant really wants some new, good visions about what you want, and that the Council of State might want to lighten up a little bit about what she thinks about thinking about new and modern things about railway operations. Unfortunately, it ended up with a pretty big yawn. It's a little new both from the inter-pellant and from the state councils in what we're discussing here. I think it's good that the Right says that they're now making a new railway plan, because I think the railway policy of the Right has to go back on track again. I also think it's important to take with them when someone says they're going to make sure that the first option is the railway, that it's okay to look at how much money they give to achieve it. In the 2012 state budget, SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre are granting exactly the same investment as the Right grant. Right-hand kites, right? Ten million. kr, but they cut in operation and maintenance. At least it's not a good idea when we want the commuters to be sure that the trains come when they're going, and that people actually get where they're going. The Progress Party and I believe that it is important to take real action. Of course, outsourcing is a great opportunity to get a better offer. We have seen it in the case of the Gjøvik track – and we have seen it elsewhere – that the competitive outsourcing actually provides better offers. On the other hand, we've said that we want to organize things in a different way. We want to set up a state company that will have the opportunity to raise loans, and that will have the opportunity to be more offensive. That is why we have proposed it in the 2012 budget – we are not doing what is right, thinking about it. We have proposed it because we believe that it is a good solution to move on. We have to do the same thing on the road. The Advance Party is concerned that we should have good solutions both on the road and on the rail – and not least in the aviation sector, as I feel that a large majority in this Chamber would have liked to have left at death. But with Bjørn Kjos’ purchase of 220 new aircraft, I think there will still be a lot of air traffic for the next 50-100 years. I think it's good that we discuss quality. I understand that people don't exactly think it's very nice to get stepped into a train car and stand there and feel that you're about to get strangled. So that's how bad the offer is. I feel that neither the Council of State nor the Right – or the Workers' Party, for that matter – discusses what is the challenge. It's money that needs to be done. When the representative from the Labour Party stands here and boasts that we are now dealing with Oslo-Ski, we have got it at a separate post in the state budget, there is an entry that is far less than what was foreseen in the National Transport Plan, or – to put it another way – when the Council of State boasts that we are going to start with the Eidanger Parcel in 2012, we are going to grant 100 million. SEK for a project costing 6.3 billion. kr, it's the ping-pong. It's the penguins to say that now we're really betting, and now we're taking a lot of grip. We have to stick our finger in the ground and look at: What is the need? What are the challenges out there? Then we have to start working on how we're going to solve the huge challenges we're facing. Then we have to think about something new. But the most important new thing we have to think about is spending more money on investing in infrastructure, both on the road and on the railways, and it has to be political will to do so. So it's like what's building a railway, and what's building a road, is whether it's called OPS or project financing, or whether it's getting an entry on the state budget -- that's money, and that's money we need. Then we agree that OPS or project funding can be a good way to organise, but you have to spend money to build out in the most efficient and rational way possible. It is the Progress Party's response to how we are to meet the challenges we face in the area of infrastructure. There are new ideas, because it is about creating both for the road and for the path of own companies that get the opportunity to invest, that get the opportunity to think in the long term, and that have the money at their disposal. This is where I had hoped that the Council of State could reveal a little now – she said so far that we should consider it, but I think that it has been assessed long enough now. Now we have to start trading, because it's both on the road network and the railway network in the process of rotting many places, and there's a lot, much more money needed than what's been granted so far. Then you're going to have to hit your chest because you've given 100 million. SEK to a project of 6.3 billion. kr. But it's not that much to hit the chest for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e933	I would first like to thank the interpellant for travelling this important topic. When it comes to rail transport and investment here in this room, it is often boasted of money use and who has granted the most over the state budget, cf. the last speech. I felt – before the last speaker – that luckily it could seem that this debate had come a little further and got on a different track. I have no problems in fameing the government for money use for the railways. There was room for a lift on the road as the red-greens took over. They did, and the Left followed up – and so did – in our alternative budgets. Of course, money is important and necessary, but it is also important to use this money and how it is managed – whether it is used well enough, or whether there is a need for innovation in the transport sector. The left is probably one of the parties that think there is a need for innovation, and we showed it when we sat with the Minister of Transport of the Bondevik II government. The launch of the Gjøvik Railway, to which the representative Ingerd Schou referred, is one of the examples of the grip that was taken. When the red-green took over, it was blown up by the necessary means, but the innovation stopped. We in the Left feel that is regrettable. Unlike the Minister of Transport, I heard that the representative Schou boasted of the Bondevik II government and the innovation there. In the years we have been in opposition, the Left has also called for innovation, especially in view of the faster progress of projects, at the latest by a left-wing proposal that was debated in spring. The background to that proposal was that the Left is very impatient with the progress of railway projects, including: within the intercity triangle, as also mentioned by the Minister for Transport. The reason for this is all the reports that pointed out that significant population growth is expected in urban areas in the coming years. Increased rail investment will also be an important contribution to achieving the greenhouse gas reduction targets, as set out in the Climate Change Agreement, and as we expect will be at the heart of the climate communication presented by the government – possibly – and as we have been waiting for a very long time. In our proposal for a representative, we proposed, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t The organisation of projects needs to be amended. The project execution power needs to be increased. The project funding needs to be modified. I note in this debate that the Labour Party representative is very pleased with the state of things. Then I think he should listen more to his own Prime Minister, who in the evening post on 18 April last year went out and said we need to have a faster planning. He admits that the planning processes take too much time, and he said that you have to build more completely. That is exactly what the Left proposed in its proposal for a representative, but was voted down in this Chamber. I have also noticed that the railway manager Elisabeth Enger has said in the railway station that she wants to think in new lanes, and that she is open to assess the development companies that are responsible for expanding longer sections of the railway. This is also in line with the wishes of the Left, and we look forward to more high-level thinking and innovation from the railway director. The Minister for Transport referred to this in his letter of reply to us in connection with our proposal for a representative: ‘The government will return to any changes to the current funding regime associated with the roll-out of the NTP.’» I also heard in her post here today that she will look at both how to get faster planning, and another way of financing, as opposed to what it is today. The left is waiting in suspense, and I am glad that the debate – at least among those who have spoken – has risen a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e970	The interpellant theme is important, but not new. I record that the main actions are the launching of competition and the reorganisation of the railway sector. On these issues, the Progress Party has had a number of proposals relating to the State budget, as well as its own proposals in the Stortinget. The connection from the Right has been slightly different, but the Right has mainly been included. What's needed is literally new tracks. It needs new rail tracks to run more trains, to run more often trains and in a better way. Then we get to the money quickly and to the financing. That is why I am pleased with the little news that comes from the interpellant, that the Right will look at its railway policy – and perhaps come down to the ground a little bit. In any case, we from the Progress Party hope that there will be greater opportunities to come together in terms of funding. Instead of having the conviction that thousands of billions can be used to build a new train concept, we believe in the Progress Party that by some less means than it can, we can go far in refurbishing the entire transport sector in Norway – today’s rail system inclusive. The interpellant said something like the right wanted the train to be “so good that the car is pale”. I think it's important to have a bit of audacity in transport policy, in railway policy. It is such that railway operations are effective in many transport contexts, but far from all. Railway operations receive State contributions a year of between 13 billion. and 14 B.C.E. kr. Traffic costs per passenger by train are high. However, the cost of transporting passengers by bus is significantly lower. It is a cost picture that often drowns both in transport policy and in concrete railway policy. It is also the case that total CO2 emissions from train transport do not appear to be clearly better than the emissions from road-based transport. It is also a fact that often drowns in the policy on transport, and not least in climate policy. It is probably necessary to have far more audacity to the actual conditions of rail traffic and rail transport, which are important nevertheless, and which we should be able to significantly improve if we use more State resources. That's what's going on. But then finally a slightly different theme, related to the organization. There is coordination between the two major actors and political management – the Ministry and the company NSB and the Railway Agency. There it is that good interaction is far from clear. This issue has been raised with the Council of State before, and I'm using this opportunity to do it again. I'll use a clear example of that. In Rogaland – the neighbouring county of Hordaland – there is a broad consensus, as we have seen, between the company NSB, which carries a lot of goods and passengers on trains, and the Railway Agency. With regard to the development, common projects and common positions on common projects, there has been a broad welcome from the political environment — including the Workers' Party and the Right — that such interaction is important and things have been done. In Hordaland, on the other hand, unfortunately, it's not like this. There's a full crack. There is a full gap between the company NSB – which has an opportunity study to drive several trains in the mountain region to the country’s second largest airport, and also to one of the districts north of Bergen, which is the size of the largest cities in the country, Åsane Town with 45,000 inhabitants – and the railway station, which does not want to. They only prioritise freight and search for new freight terminals and new corridors for their tracks to the freight terminal. Coordination is absent. In the political environment, unfortunately, it also bursts. The lot Right – lot of the inter-pellant – is not engaged in coordination and is not engaged in railway development. They're more concerned with collecting money through tolls. The working party is not on the train either – unfortunately. Actually, I don't think the Senter Party is on the train either. There is a need for more clear coordination here. This is a responsibility of authority – primarily a political responsibility of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e990	First a little visit to the representative Tenden, who had a visit to the Workers' Party representative, Siri Hov Egg. She says that the representative Hov Egg was very pleased with the situation. The representative tendon could not possibly hear what Hov Egg really said. She said it happens very well, but that there are also major challenges again, which we are going to take seriously, and which it is constantly working on. It will also be an important part of the new national transport plan. She was even concerned that the Workers' Party should take a closer look at the topic of project financing. So much good happens – we have to be able to say that. But that there are major challenges, we all agree. It is no big surprise that the Right and the Advance Party are finding each other well on the theme of competitive outsourcing and privatisation. It's not a big surprise. We've discussed this issue before, and they have great faith that corporate economic principles solve most of what we're doing, including within our welfare state. Interpellanten referred to Sweden. I just have to stress that the messages we get from Sweden now, and that we've been given a while, at least in the last year, is that there's not much going on. There's a great deal of delay. There is not only prosperity in the railway sector there after the outsourcing of the competition and after the combination of it all into one mode of transport. The representative Hoksrud says that OPS is new thoughts. There are no new thoughts. OPS has been widely used in England. We see the results of that -- how they struggle to get their OPS projects repaid. After all, they're all tied up, and it goes a little bit beyond the budget when they're trying to balance it over there. Sweden does not go into this at all, because they see that it binds up too much. In the case of Norway, I refer only to the European Investment Bank which contributes to the financing of two of the three Norwegian OPS projects. They have reviewed all the OPS projects in which they have participated from 1990 to 2005 and they conclude that the OPS projects on average are 25 pst. more expensive than traditional projects. So if that's what's going to be the answer to the challenges for us in the future, and that's a form of funding that's good to use, then I disagree. In this connection, I can only refer to the project E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand. It became much more expensive than assumed. We're talking about $12 billion. kr, and there has been a dispute in the court about who is going to pay this bill. As far as I know, one of those companies has actually gone bankrupt. We can also refer to the E6 – which is a comparable construction project – that went much faster and that was not at all more expensive than a OPS project would have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1007	So with today's ambitions, it'll take 30 years before we get double tracks in the intercity triangle. I guess that's what I'm asking for as part of a bigger strategy. To the representative of Hov Egg, I just want to say that what is actually ‘approaching’ is a railway structure that would provide an even better railway. The council must allow me to follow up with a question. If Avinor is able to obtain funding on its own, why can't the railway sector do the same? Then I just want to say that the Right has programmed that we want to transform the Railway Agency into a separate railway company. And when the representative Hoksrud points out we're cutting 10 million. kr to the Railway Agency, I recommend that he read our entire budget proposal – read it in person. It's an art, but it actually says 50 billion. kr to a maintenance fund. It will be a good contribution to maintenance on both road and rail. To the representative of Sortevik: the right will not use ‘thousand billions’ on the high-speed rail. In the case of new tracks, which are upgraded, we add the list in relation to what I call ‘bad’ fast trains, with a limit of 250 km/h. That's our first priority in terms of the entire intercity triangle, and in terms of long intersections on other sections where population and speed indicate it. Then it is well to say to the representative of Sortevik that when Bergen and Bergen Right want the city track first, local democracy works. So they want the city track before they want the NSB railway. The right is now working on a total review of the whole railway sector. We also want to make more proposals for improvements. This is an important work towards the election that we are facing in 2013 and a possible government change. The railway has been neglected for many years. This government has done a lot, but this government has not done enough to raise the quality of the rail service. It clearly shows that we do not yet know when the most important, densely populated, route we have in the eastern region – namely Oslo-Ski, the beginning of the Eastfold Railway and the road to the European Union – will be completed. Project financing is not project financing when we cannot provide the amount from start to finish and know with certainty when the line is finished. I again thank the Council of State for the answer that has been given, and look forward to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1029	First a comment on the intercity strategy. I think Injerd Schou has a very important point when she asks for an intercity completion date. Today we write on 14 February. On 16 February, the Railway Agency will reply when it is technically possible to complete double-track Oslo-Lillehammer, Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Skien and estimate what it can cost. So the priority debate comes after that. But let me underline: we have to build up the rail supply in the Oslo area, which I already had in my first post. It is also an important issue in the national transport plan. Then comes the first proposal for what should be given priority first, and then there will be a priority debate in addition to the spring and hearings with the different county councils and many others. So for the organisation of the Railway Agency: there are other important issues than the financing of railway development itself that are decisive for how the Railway Agency should be organised. Today, the railway system has many administrative tasks other than the planning and deployment of the rail network in Norway. Among other things, the work on train management, scheduling of all train traffic authorised to run on the network are closely related to capacity assessments and planning and development of the network. I mean so strongly that the experience from other countries, with different ways of organizing, is not clear. So there is a good example of privatisation that has moved back to a state responsibility. Finally, I would like to say that I am impatient. I've said that many times before in this hall. I am insolent on behalf of the many passengers who light up a better offer and that there will be room for even more on the train. It is very good to have an insolent and constructive swelling in your back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1040	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended. Let's move on to case No. 4, Interpellation by the representative Bjørn Soldemel to the Minister for the Environment and Development. The President shall try to read this – in new Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1058	The president did pretty well. There may be good secondary education in school! This is the first time the Stortinget is debating predatory policy after the 2011 conciliation. Many people have been anxious about how the new game of prey would be carried out, and there has been a great deal of tension about whether the intentions and the concrete objectives of the agreement would become a reality. I want to use most of this interpellation to discuss the aspects of predatory game policy that have not worked up to now, and less time on what is good. On the right is the anxiety over the signals that have come from the government, not least what we have seen about setting hunting quotas for bouncy. The review of the regional predators we have seen in this matter is very regrettable. Right has worked a long time to get a better predatory policy. Already in 2007, the UK’s right-hand proposal for a thorough evaluation of the 2004 Robbery Agreement was presented. The government has not followed up important commitments for the 2004 rapprochement, and there have been growing conflicts – something that everyone has seen. The main challenge of predatory wildlife policy to date has been a major distrust of the management of the agricultural industry and the inhabitants of the predatory wild-fired area. The management has not had the ability or the willingness to implement important aspects of the 2004 Robbery Agreement, such as: two-part target, and that the area with a high predatory load should be unloaded. When the robberies negotiations started in 2011, it was important for the Right to get a broader review of the entire predatory game policy instead of taking on only a few themes, as it had been added from the government's side. Luckily, we got an impact on it, even though difficult themes, such as wolves, were delayed. Right wants a predatory policy that can stand over time, where knowledge and trust are decisive. For this reason, the Right organised a large hearing at the Stortinget in March 2011, where several researchers and many organisations with different views were present. It was a constructive and good debate, and I want to claim that Right is one of the parties that work most in the field of anti-terrorism. At the last national meeting in Right, the issue of predatory wildlife was also the issue. In a resolution on agriculture, a paragraph states: ‘A falsified predatory policy is threatening and is now changing the basis of agriculture. The size assumptions of 2004 are broken and conflicts are increasing. Right will have a research-based predatory policy based on local management and respect for property rights and the rights of individuals and communities’. The last sentence is very important to the Right, because it will be the key to creating mutual respect between management and grazing, and it is good to see that it has become part of the text of the predatory game deal. Right has great expectations that this will be followed up. For this reason, recent events with a reduction in the gloat quota are both disappointing and destructive – disappointing because it is not in line with the rapprochement when it comes to the wording that the administration should build on ‘scientific and experience-based knowledge’, and there is a clear violation of the wording that ‘the emphasis should be on regional governance’. The regional predators have done a conscientious and good job of balancing the stock according to the stock target, and then it is completely wrong that the Ministry of the Environment uses a half-complete forecast model to oversee their assessments. This continues the mistrust that has been to the administration, and it is very regrettable that the ministry in this way increases the level of conflict. It would be detrimental to the implementation of the rest of the settlement if the minister did not clean it up. I expect the Council of State to use this opportunity to justify the decisions and that the Minister will intervene to change the quotas. Today's poaching policy is in many places a pure policy of displacement. The agreement states that predatory game management must be carried out in such a way that no grazing is necessary due to predatory game in priority grazing areas and that full compensation must be paid from the first day if grazing is introduced. At the focus of the NRK on November 8, there was a program about the sheep farmer Jostein Omli in Steinkjer, who is threatened with grazing because of great losses to predatory game. In this area, there is documented loss to bear, yerv, gloupe and royal eagle. The area is outside the breeding area of bear, the number of juveniles for gloupe is twice the size of the population, and the large royal eagle population is not managed. There is no doubt that the administration has the primary responsibility for the large losses of the sheep farmer Jostein Omli. Therefore, it is completely wrong that he is going to destroy the possibilities to operate the garden due to predatory game. A grazing will be the wrong medicine to fix this. The public can't just push responsibility away and demand that a farmer in this way be sacrificed. Instead, administrations need to ensure that the total predatory pressure is lowered, and thus that the loss rates are also acceptable. The Southern Sámi tamare is an important theme of the Robbery Agreement. There is no doubt that predators have become a major and major challenge to the South Saami domestic practice. The pilot-in-command agreement states that ‘the necessary measures shall be taken both in the management of predators and in the reindeer management with a view to ensuring the situation of southern Sami domestic reindeer’ and that there shall not be ‘crustaceans representing a harmful potential in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and calving areas for domestic reindeer’. The last point has not been completed, and it should be interesting to hear what the minister will do to ensure that predators do not represent damage potential in calving areas. An important question when assessing measures to ensure domestic management is to introduce measures to reduce the total predatory pressure. Many cities are also a threat to the kings. I asked the following questions about this 30 November 2011: ‘In the robberies agreement, it is stated: ‘Congealers must be included in the surveillance programme in line with the other predatory game species and the mapping of the royal eagle population must be completed as soon as possible. It is important to reduce the uncertainty associated with the number of nesting pairs of king eagles and the extent of damage caused by the king eagle on domestic animals and domestic animals.’ Stock is currently well above the stock target. In the Nord-Trøndelag there is considerable damage both on domestic animals and on domestic trains." In the response from the stand-in State Council Light Hill, it was stated that one should look at the possibilities to get the king eagle into the existing research project, along with gloat and yerv – possibly in the upcoming research project. The City Council Lighthouse agreed that this was necessary, and he would bring it forward. How's it going with this thing now? It is also decisive that the management follows the agreement and the formulations to facilitate the faster collection of pests, irrespective of whether the stock targets have been reached, and short deadlines should be set for dealing with applications for pest traps in order to minimise the damage to grazing animals. What kind of new action will the Council of State take in this area? Right sees that it is very important to build trust in government, and that one builds on good professional advice. It is also decisive that those who come with these advice are completely independent of the administration. Therefore, it is very positive that Rovdata and the State's nature oversight should be strengthened as a specialist body, and that Rovdata should now be fully responsible for the stock registration and to report on the distance between stock objectives and actual target achievement. I think it's an important tool to create trust. When we know that this is a goal, it becomes even more incomprehensible that the Ministry of the Environment, a few months after the agreement was approved in Stortinget, introduces a new forecast model that allows the Ministry to reduce the ratios on gloat – as we have seen now. Last week I attended the opening of Norway's Hunter and Fisherman Association's new hunting and fishing centre in Få, Hallingdal. The entire energy and environmental fraction from the Right visited the Bear Park in the fall, and we were very impressed by what we saw. The co-location of the Bear Park, the Crustacean Centre and the training centre of the Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen's Association will be worth gold in the future. In the game of prey, it's called: «Active action shall be taken with regard to licensing and a better course offer shall be established with a view to improving the effectiveness of licensing. Such measures should be implemented in close cooperation with non-governmental organisations.’;» This whole plant in Flau fits as a hand in the glove of these formulations. Increased knowledge on a professional basis in the Carnivores Centre and training of hunters in the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishermen's Association's national training centre in very inviting environments in the Bear Park will be a great cheek egg to increase knowledge and competence in the field of predatory game. Public support for this fine facility in the future should be well supported. Right is pleased that a Joint Committee supports our remarks in budgetary management last fall, and it promises further support. There are still many important themes that have not been clarified in the Robbery Agreement. It shall apply, inter alia, to: Peanuts and wolf. Right, we've made it clear that we want nudity for dogs, and we're having trouble understanding why it's going to be contracted like this. In the case of wolves, the Right has also sent a clear signal that the wolf population has to descend when the wolf population target is to be decided in 2013. In the agreement, it is shown that a selection is to be added to evaluate the wolf's son. I hope that the Council of State will be able to provide information on how this is being done and on how to deal with the negotiations with Sweden on the border herds. Otherwise, I look forward to a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1150	Let me thank the inter-pellant for addressing a very important topic that there is a great deal of commitment around the whole country – a theme where the Storting has made a broad deal, and where it is important that we not only engage in conciliation and share influence. We also need to share the responsibility afterwards to implement the agreement. He also mentions a theme like it is – I get to say – a millennia story for people to be interested in. Very many cities and places in the world build their myths around predators. It's enough to think of Rome, which was built when Romulus and Remus were taken and put in a basket, or the adventures and myths where predators play a very central role. I think that when I'm on deathbed, about one of the last things I'm going to forget is to reproduce the Red Heat and the Wolves and the Seven Goat Killers. I've done this so many times for my children that it's about the last thing I'm going to remember – along with a couple of shooting times from the 1960s. So this is central to people, and it's always been. I would like to commend the cooperation shown by the Stortinget through the predatory settlement, but I would also like to invite the Stortinget to join in and take responsibility for the implementation of that policy. It's not like that, as is suggested in the interpellant's question, that most things go wrong. Very much goes ahead and goes better in Norwegian predator policy. Right should be involved and take the pleasure and honor of it, because the Right has been a constructive contributor. The right was at the predatory settlement in 2004, the right played a central role in the predatory settlement in 2011, and the right is thus an important precursor for this. Then there is no reason to paint black. On the contrary: You should share everything that goes well, and if the Right wants to be with and share it, I should be happy – on behalf of the government – to do it too. The sheep loss rates go down, not up. Four-year loss rates for sheep killed by predatory game are the lowest in ten years. The tapes have dropped by 25 pst since 2007. on a national basis. Then remember that this is for a period when there has been a significant increase in predatory populations. Nevertheless, loss rates have decreased. More than that: historically, there are more sheep in Norway than ever before. We have gone from 1.5 million sheep in 1925 to 2.3 million sheep in 2009. The largest increase in sheep in Norway has been in the period when we have also seen an increase in predators — i.e. in the period from 1970. As everyone knows, for all practical purposes, some of the large predators were eradicated in Norway in 1970. The numbers for them have increased since, and the sheep team has the same thing, so there's no evidence for the claim that things are going wrong in this area. There are many problems and conflicts, but the main picture is that we have lower loss rates for sheep, despite the fact that we have more predators. Secondly, we are in the process of reaching the stock targets that Stortinget has set. It's not a small achievement. For some of them, when we go down to the numbers that the Storting has decided – that's gloupe and yerv – and for wolves and bears, we work to get up to the population targets that Stortinget has decided. For wolves, the target of three young people was reached for the first time in Norway in 2010, and so far much indicates that that target was also achieved for 2011. For bears, we have a big deviation from the stock target. There's still a good deal left to come up with the goal of size. That was 15 in 2004. There are 13 young people according to last year's settlement. We're on about. Six today, so there's a good deal left. But the population of bears in Norway is also increasing. In recent years, the palate population has been significantly above the target population. But through intensified hunting, we have succeeded in bringing the globular population down to the stock target. According to the new forecast model – which was also covered by the interpellant – it is likely that before 2012 we have a gloupe population in Norway of 67 young people, which is as close to the population target of 65 young people as possible. It's not an area where it's possible to be absolutely precise, but it's about accurate, and 67 compared to 65 I think is as precise as we can be. In the case of yours, it has been more demanding, as the licensees have not succeeded in withdrawing the allocated allowances. That's why, in line with the predatory game deal, we continue with extraordinary withdrawals of youves to reduce the population in the regions where it's necessary. So, we have less loss of sheep, despite several predators, and we're approaching the goal that the Storting has set, from above and from below. But that's the intent of Storting, which we're set to manage. Thirdly, the new denominator model is generally well received. It was maintained and strengthened in the robber agreement in the spring of 2011. The county officials, the Directorate for Nature Management and the State's Natural Supervision are given much credit for their preparedness and prompt handling of acute damage situations. That doesn't mean there's still a lot to do to make this work even better. But often when I travel, I meet people even among the most critical of predatory policies who say that the jam countyman in my county can now be on the phone and get a quick damages permit when there is an emergency situation. So here too there's a lot of boast, despite the fact that of course there's a lot that can be done better. The monitoring works better than before, and I'm very happy that Lødemel also pulled out the new Rovdata. It is well received and has great confidence. Let me add that this ‘thing for things’ is only possible because you give more money in this area – as the red-green government has done. Compared with other, former governments, there has been a substantial increase in funding in this area, and this means that things like Robbery and many other good measures are possible. And then there's been a special criticism that we've changed the gaupe quotas in three regions. Let me first say that there are very few of the decisions of the predators who have been converted by the Ministry of the Environment or me. In five of the eight regions, no changes have been made — only in three. Let me explain why take Nordland as an example. In Northern Ireland, there is a population of ten young people. We will reach 5.3 young people in the Nordic countries with a population target of 10. In other words, you are significantly below the population target of the county. Then the robbers have not done their job in the Nordic countries when they set a gloat quota that will lead to a failure to reach the stated stock destination of the Storting. This is precisely based on the scientific experience-based process such as interpellant demand. The problem with previous methods of calculation is that the hunting of last year has not been taken into account when determining the stock targets. Now, a forecast model has been created that takes into account last year's hunt, and we think it's the most accurate one that can be found. But let me also make it very clear that if it turns out that the Ministry of Environmental Protection here is wrong, and that the population of gaupe is different from what we think in the three vulnerable regions, we will of course have to correct that error and make sure that there is an opportunity to take out more rags in those regions. We have, to put it this way, a Bible in this area, and it's the stated goal of the Greatness. We're going to try to reach them – not above and not below, but about that. And – again: If it turns out that the Ministry of the Environment is wrong, of course, we should correct the course in line with the wishes of the interpellant. But so far we think that we are now based on the best scientific basis that it is possible to have. In the case of the 2011 rapprochement, let me just say that we have set regional stock targets for bears. Despite the fact that we're far from reaching the goal, we still think it's natural to distribute that change from 15 to 13. We are launching, like the interpellant also demand, surveillance program for the king eagle, with more intensive surveillance and more research and with the aim that we can bring the king eagle into the normal predatory game management. We have taken the initiative to cooperate with Sweden. I've had several meetings with the Swedish Environment Minister. State Secretary Heidi Sørensen has met the Swedish State Secretary. As soon as Sweden has completed its predatory investigation, we will aim to move forward in a joint Norwegian-Swedish cooperation on, among other things. management of the wolf trunk. Let me also say that in those conversations we have made it very clear that from the Norwegian side we do not think it is a good idea to expel puppies from Swedish zoos as part of the wolf population, because it fools the image between wild animals and domestic animals, but also because we cannot be absolutely certain that animals from animal parks do not behave differently than wolves born in it would. We're going to start the work that the interpellant asked about in the case of the wolf zone. It can be said that we are doing a lot of action in the information area in cooperation with a variety of predatory centres. Flee, mentioned here, is one of the centres that has benefited from the red-green government's red-green appropriations. I'm glad it also has Right-wing support. The Namskogan Familienpark is another example, and more can be mentioned. Of course, we will also ensure that the Stortinget gets proposals for changes to the law on emergency provisions for dogs. Let me finally say that Rovdata is now publishing and launching an app that makes it even easier for people out there to record their predatory observations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1184	I thank you for a thorough review. It is especially that the whole Storting is gathering about a predatory game settlement, and therefore there are also great expectations, among other things. from the right to follow up on the intentions in the agreement. That is why I also wanted to raise such a debate in Stortinget today. When it comes to fixing the hunting quota on gaupe, there is no doubt that there is an unfinished forecast model that has been created. There is also no doubt that it is perceived as a strong distrust of the predators. It has to be corrected. When it comes to the loss rate for sheep, there is no doubt that the sheep industry has been displaced from a highly predatory area. When it comes to you, it's a big challenge. I want to use an example from my own home state, Sogn and Fjordane. In the predatory game agreement, the most central point of grazing priority area is that there should be no predators representing a potential damage in the priority grazing area for livestock. Sogn and Fjordane are today priority pastures. Nevertheless, one in Inner Sogn feels that especially the young do great damage to sheep. Probably there are seven of you who have done damage to sheep last summer. Today there is a licence quota of four yervar in Sogn and Fjordane. In addition, two claims have been made. The problem is that these animals are not taken out. The license hunt goes out tomorrow, and none of the four you used to be killed. SNO has taken part in the hunt at the end, without results. As a result, there is a great danger that all the seven practices that have done damage to the last grazing season will continue for the coming year. It is not acceptable. Both the Ministry of the Environment and the SNO must act. In 2011, the youth area of Zone 3 was extended to the border with Sogn and Fjordane. We know that Zone 1 in Sogn and Fjordane is a priority grazing area. Once we've seen how the jervutta in the county works, there's no need to be a rocket scientist to see that the extension of the breeding area in zone 3 will have very negative consequences for the grazing industry in the Sogn and Fjordane border areas. In addition, when we see that the authorities are not able to deal with the challenges of pest extraction today, this could have dramatic consequences for the entire grazing industry in these border areas – from Stryn in the north to Lærdal in the south. What would the State Council do to fix this? Otherwise, I'm very excited about what comes from the other parts. In newspapers and magazines, there has been a marked discrepancy about what has happened when it comes to the fixing of gaupe quotas. I'm excited to hear what the parties say, both those who are in government, and those who are outside government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1203	Let me first say to the interpellant that he is of course quite right, despite the fact that during the last decade, predatory policies have to be said to be very successful for Norway – we have had a reduced loss rate for sheep while we have had a significant increase in predatory stock, exactly what the Storting wanted with the double policy, that we should have grazing food, and that we should have predators, so it must be said that overall Norway has succeeded – does not mean, of course, that there are not many local conflicts, and that there are many people who feel vulnerable. It may be heartbreaking to see great losses in their own sheep flock or herd of reindeer as a result of predators. People can feel threatened by predators. So that doesn't mean there aren't many conflicts associated with it. One of the main instruments in this way is the zoning, where some areas are to be priority for predators and others are to be priority for sheep farming and other outlanding industries. We want to do what we can to make that zoning work better. We believe that this is a good sign that it works, but it should certainly work better. I am not particularly familiar with the situation in Sogn and Fjordane that was taken up. I just want to invite a dialogue about it, both with Lødemel and of course with the predatory game subject that covers Sogn and Fjordane. We want as much dialogue as possible on all these questions. The same is true of you. As I said in the introduction, it has proved to be much more difficult to get the license hunt to work on yours, and therefore we have had extraordinary withdrawals. It is also a theme on which we will invite dialogue. We want to send a letter today to all our conciliators to invite a dialogue on all these questions and how we can get better. Finally, if gaupe, since it has been the most controversial: let me say that in region 2, which is Vestfold, Aust-Agder, Buskerud and Telemark, let the wild game name be a hunt for 32 animals, and the Ministry of Environment has adopted 15. The reason for this is that the globular population in this area is above the stock target, but as the representative Ropstad got very well in the spontaneous question hour last Wednesday, it has now fallen, and the forecast model shows that we will have 11.5 young people in this area before hunting, towards a regional stock target of 12. In central Norway, there is much of the same situation. Also there is, in our opinion, that one will now be below the target if one lays down the hunting level that the predatory game has set. Most clearly, this is in the Nordic countries, as I mentioned earlier, where you are down to half of the Storting's population if you were to base it on what is proposed by the predatory game subject. So we've done this to the best of our ability to achieve the goals that Bigton has set.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1216	Thanks to the interpellant. There's reason to thank the interpellant, because he was one of those who helped to achieve the consensus we got in the Storting in the previous session. The power to achieve such unanimity in the Storting around the management of such an important part of our nature is a quality sign of the Norwegian Parliament. So I also believe that it is good that Stortinget is involved in discussing and following up on the conciliation. There's no clock going on, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1225	We'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1228	Thank you, President. I'd like to start by defending the two-part objective, because it's a lot of people who attack. There are many who claim that it is absolutely impossible to combine having grazing animals, exploiting this entire land resource that we have, with having viable populations of predators. But it is my claim that the alternatives to a two-part objective are terribly bad. One is extermination. One thing is that we are internationally obliged to take care of our predatory populations, that it is moral error to eradicate them. But predators have an actual value in Norwegian nature that the vast majority of the population appreciate. Then it will also be moral error to manage the predators in such a way that it is not possible to feed the land. In addition, the large figures, to which the Council of State also referred, show that the two-part objective can be achieved. We have built up our predatory wildlife populations while there has never been more grazing animals in Norway than it is right now. But it is also important for me to say that we see that there are some areas where the conflicts are very large. The fact that the numbers in general are good is probably perceived as quite immaterial, where you experience great losses, for example. sees no control over the herd, where one sees great challenges in relation to southern tamre drift or feels that one does not hear for one's own description of reality. That is why I think it is good to have a new settlement. I believe that the conciliation takes a number of steps that are involved in strengthening the two-part objective and dampening conflict. The councils have gone through the purely practical follow-up to the conciliation, so I won't, but I'd like to stress some points that are important to us. Firstly, a very heavy focus on stock monitoring and registration has been reconciled, and I believe that is a key point. It's done a lot over the last few years, and it's good, because it's impossible to agree on how to manage a predator stock if you don't agree on how many animals you have and on what the world looks like. It's enormously conflict-making if you feel that there's a bear going up in the lia, but you're told by the state that no, it doesn't. Now we have better numbers than ever, but there has been an improvement in contact with the audience, so I think this development – how, for example. Rovdata comes with an ‘app’ – it’s very good. I also think that we have a lot to go about following up these observations, that we see that the observations are taken seriously and followed up in the management. Another key point was how we should get more efficient hunting. When the government invited to settle, it was based on the numbers of bears and wolves and emergency dogs. The size chose to expand it, and I think that was right and important. For some of the major challenges we have related to loss, to conflicts with grazing, it's primarily about managing yours and yours. Being able to streamline the hunt is a key point here. We still have great challenges on you. There was the interpellant inside his second post. Also on the bear, we are struggling to take out the quotas that are being set, and here the agreement was very clear that the state should take a greater responsibility than what has been done so far. You can never guarantee a result – you don’t control the weather, and you don’t have unlimited resources – but the denominators have now been given the opportunity to get the state on the road in the past. It is important that it is followed up, both through the budget and through instructions out into the administration, and I also perceive that to be happening. As quickly as possible to the role of the denominators, which was strengthened by the conciliation, in particular the secretariat function: the participants shall be in the leadership of the dialogue with the State on where the additional effort is to be made. But in the wake of the debate that has taken place around the Gaupe quotas, it is important for us to say that it was not that the Ministry of the Environment and the Government were deprived of political responsibility to ensure that the goal of the Storting is achieved. We have a right and a duty to review. That threshold is going to be high, we've underlined that. Overtest is not a wish situation, but you can get the impression that some people believe that it was contrary to the predatory agreement that it was overtested. It's not. It is impossible to impose targets on the government without any practical means of achieving them. So I'll finally mention that the need for dogs was an important point for the Workers' Party in the conciliation. It is good that the Council of State signals that it is being followed up, and it is important that it does so quickly, so that the paragraph applies before the upcoming hunting season.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1250	In recent times, we have experienced a new – and quite loud – debate on the agreed predatory settlement. The debate is on the interpretation of the conciliation. Many think that the Ministry of the Environment is using an interpretation that threatens this broad agreement. Resolutions and statements come on a rolling basis and are hard in their characteristics by the Ministry of the Environment. Also states in the Center Party have come with squeezing phrases – most recently from the Sør-Trøndelag centre party. They demand that the predatory settlement be followed up at all points and that an over-test of game subjects be completely unacceptable. Feeding industries are delighted that in June last year the Stortinge decided that predators with harmful potential should not be present in priority grazing areas. The Erling Sande of the centre party says in the media that it is good to look at the situation in time before the grazing season, but when the grazing season approaches and predators are in pasture, they shall be taken out or moved. So I look forward to seeing how the government party will argue and behave this time. By 2010, as we know, 113 male bears – 33 for many, according to the Ministry of the Environment. Here you also need to make sure that you have an extraction regime, such as track snow, in place to reach your target. But it seems strange when, in its letter to the Directorate for Nature Management, the Ministry of the Environment clearly states that one has low expectations of being able to take out the agreed quota. It sends a signal, too. The party of progress is concerned that the agreement of predators does not lose its legitimacy, and that the text of the agreement is not watered down. Nor should the other conciliators be able to live with it – especially the Center Party. The reason for this fear is that the Ministry of the Environment is overrun by the predatory game subject that has provided the most gloat to Norwegian nature in a particular class over time. Greater mistrust is difficult to find in Norwegian predator management. Also from region 2 there is a crushing phrase sent to the department's review. The Co-operation Council has also come to an end, at Ellinor Marita Jåma, who says democracy will be undermined. She said this during the celebration of her national day together. And in Question Time last Wednesday, I asked the question: does not the Minister for the Environment not see that the robbery settlement and the scurvy in it are threatened by the party that was just supposed to ensure that it lasted? Unfortunately, the answer was not as expected. I believe that the Minister today describes it as ‘very successful’. One does not experience it this way in many cities. When it is argued that losses have fallen, there is a strange light in relation to the 2012 budget, where the amount has increased significantly just to be replaced. The rapprochement has a two-part objective of ensuring a viable predatory strain and the basis for grazing throughout the country. But it looks like there's only one goal of resilient predatory wildlife populations the Minister for the Environment is well to manage. Several people also believe that the Stortinge's decision is being challenged, as it now appears. It seems very unfortunate. So to self-responsive. A self-righteous one must naturally listen to, so when the representative Lødemel thinks that Right is the party that has worked the most purposefully, we hear that. But we also don't forget that the Right was involved in an earlier conciliation that has hardly created any more battles. So let's make sure that today's settlements don't get the same fate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1267	The public debate reaches the same heights when the beach problem is discussed as when we discuss the limitations of the wolf's re-entry on us who live in the eastern part of the country. For a city lady like me took the time before I really realized what the burden of the predatory problem represents for Building Norway, but now, after nearly 20 years of shipping, I have no problem getting involved in what burden it must be for those who lose their life's work as victims of predatory attacks. A motive for hunting has been to combat predatory plagues ever since the Middle Ages. ‘The bear and the wolf shall in all respects be medically outlawed’ – i.e. unpeaceful – ‘their works will not be answered by any man, but only in the case of the bear being encircled in hi’, states the Gulatings Act. Until the mid-19th century, the wolf was very widespread in this country. From then on the stock decreased, and the hated predator disappeared from large parts of South Norway. Before the 2003 conciliation, we were told that the Scandinavian wolf tribe was back, it was very threatened, it had to be protected from migratory wolves from Russia in order not to be remixed, and the release was completely out of date. Today, I see that the same environmental movement says that it has always been a strain, the migration has been great, genetically, we need to secure valuable migratory genes from Russia – and we're even going to accept the release of animal park wolves. Now I hear correctly that the minister says he is not behind this. Of course, we have to take care of what is our responsibility, but taking responsibility for a Russian wolf tribe that shoots between 12,000 and 15,000 of the year in Russia, and that they are unable to hold down, is – with all due respect – amazing. Russian wolf is spread from the Pacific to the Atlantic throughout Siberia. Norway is always at the extreme of its prevalence. The Scandinavian wolf tribe does not exist. Now we manage an inbred wolf tribe that is separated from its species friends in Russia. Russian wolf is not threatened, but very viable. Norway has no significance for its survival. Norwegian land use — grazing, hunting and landscape affected by use — is many more threatened. So an example from a local environment in Elverum. Last month, sheep farmers Eli Dørum and Kåre Kleiva decided to appeal against the decision in Eidsivating Lawyers' Law, where they were convicted of not being vigilant when they dropped their sheep on the field in 2007. The wallpaper that grazing season was 98 sheep, which were either killed or injured by wolf and bear. Both parties have acknowledged this loss, but Dørum and Kleiva were denied full compensation for the killed animals. The attorney for government said that the peasants could to a large extent be reproached for the loss that had occurred, and that animal owners are obliged to do everything in their power to prevent the loss of animals. The judgment of Eidsivating Lawyers will, if it remains standing, affect not only these sheep farmers but also sheep farmers in other parts of the country. It is therefore very important for them to determine whether or not the rights of the outreach are real. If we don't use our grazing rights as soon as there are problems with predators, they say we have no real grazing rights either. Then the sheep farmer must wind up as soon as the predators arrive. It can't be that our outing rights should just be on the paper. They must be real. The principle of this case is underlined by the fact that Norway's Farmers' Association, Norwegian Farmers' Association and Norwegian Sau and Geit, as well as the municipality of Elverum, are party helpers. They go in with financial support, so that the two will be able to implement a case for the Supreme Court. It is part of the story that Kleiva and Dørum entered into an agreement in 2008 with the country to start their hatching eggs production. This would give them the means of conversion to, as compensation for the loss of sheep farming. The project is at stake. They have an empty space of four dimensions that is ready, but the market has changed. Unfortunately, this is an example of imaginative and misguided ideas for the value creation projects of the instrument, and it only underlines that farmers are going to run agriculture and not the instrument of intervention. People are not displaced overnight, but are the basis for a life in Building Norway away and the ability to possess own property and the economy of agriculture too small, it will only be the flight back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1283	Robbery is a policy area that creates great commitment, both inside and outside this room. Some of the reasons why it's not predators a problem you get to know through folk adventures, it's actually serious. It is that people live their lives and have their jobs in the area of predators, where the great community has said it should be predators. They have great knowledge of the nature and animals in their area that they have acquired for a long time, experience-based knowledge as well as theoretical knowledge, which is valuable. They experience that reality is something different from their place of stand, than from those who like to have a lot of theoretical knowledge about predators, but who are far from experiencing them. With what was behind us, it was not least pleasing, even from the centre party's point of view, that a mass accumulation was able to agree on a settlement in the predatory game policy last year, a settlement that for the first time – in our view – went in the direction of highlighting just the experience-based knowledge, which gave weight to the regional government, and – not least – took on more clearly than before the seriousness of those who live their lives and are feeding in areas with a lot of predatory game. There is a lot of good in the agreement, and a lot is going in the right direction. However, it turns out that some of the premises, or – to say – some of the elements contained in this agreement, are interpreted differently around the administration. I'll talk about some of these moments. One of them is the practice of harvesting animals representing an adverse potential in priority grazing areas. Aspect ratio questions will also be asked for maximum number of polar bears. And then the administration's responsibility for taking out animals is problematic, so that one doesn't end up with a number that's much higher than what was agreed in this room. From the Center Party's side, we think there's little reason to interpret these moments any way other than how they're designed according to the intentions that were behind. When there were discussions about extracting predators that represent a potential for damage, the reason for the debate was that one had had several cases where one had made observations and findings that indicated that there were predators in the grazing area during the period before the grazing season. One could not do anything, get a lot of damage, have a conflict, get an animal and a resource-requiring hunt that might also have been without results, and in that way a lot of negative signs after the grazing season opened, instead of taking these pests out in front, avoiding the conflict, avoiding the damage hunt and avoiding the compensation payments. It goes without saying that when some states still require two cadavers before looking at an animal as a pest, there is current practice. But it can't be the practice that the multiples in this room added up to when one wrote in those sentences. We would therefore like to assume from our side that observations and findings that indicate that there are predators in an area at the entrance to the grazing season must result in hunting and harvesting. When it comes to the relationship with natural disasters laws, it is important to stress that in the law work of the law, in fact, there is a mass increase in the link between the law and the specific role of predatory policies, which is the predatory policy that this room has said to be in force – that it is the debt. The agreement indicates that the administration is responsible for taking out both pests, potential pests and animals to which a licence has been given but which are not subject to the ordinary pursuit. In terms of population, according to the view of the Center Party, there is no large room for interpretation. And the corresponding obligation is not to gravitate according to animal welfare laws in areas that are priority pastures. There the Ministry of Agriculture has also asked the Food Authority to report where it appears to be the case. In the end, the change of governance that the Ministry of the Environment had of the names when it came to the robberies on gloupe, we think is unfortunate because it helped to weaken that intention of strengthening the regional administration. If you want a good administration, a few reports to Rovdata, you have to trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1307	I would first like to thank the interpellant for a matter that has major consequences in large parts of the country, while in other parts it has less interest, of course depending on whether you have predators or not. For those of us who live with the predators, a mixed reception was given to predators. Personally, I was somewhat skeptical about it, while others thought that there was at least a step in the right direction, where both took into account the maintenance of a predatory strain and, at the same time, took into account those who have bupe as nourishment – all of this a good way of dealing with and solving a difficult matter, but theory and practice are not always that simple. In my home country, Hedmark, we've had huge predator damage all over the year. As a border county to Sweden, we have also been dependent not only on the Norwegian decisions, but also on what Sweden wants to do. What is now troubling many are the Swedish plans to release wolves from animal parks, possibly importing wolves from other parts of the world. This is to get new genes and new blood in the Swedish wolf tribe, as it is plagued with inbreeding. This deployment is something many of us don't want, as we believe that the wolf problems will increase considerably after this. This will give us an even more difficult everyday life for our buffers, including those who operate reindeer. Only in the Glamdal region has the sheep population been halved since 1999. My claim is that this is largely due to our predatory policy. There are fewer and fewer people who have buffes as either full-time or part-time jobs and who thus form the basis for income. This means that jobs and districts are being depopulated, because finding new jobs is often very difficult. It is also difficult to obtain means of conversion to bet on alternative operations. This is also very expensive. Often these means of conversion only provide funds to a few applicants, as the pot is too small for all relevant applicants to receive. Another thing that is alarming with a large predatory strain is the decline in human quality of life. The quality of life is so much, but it may be free to move out in nature and reap the benefits of nature without feeling fear or fear. Being able to hunt according to current regulations and laws is another part of the quality of life of most people. Parts of Hedmark are now considering reducing, for example: the elk, as predators take so much of the moose stock that elk can reduce the moose stock to a minimum and below what is advisable. Hunting and natural experiences are too many reasons why they live and live in the districts. In addition, this has become an opportunity for new jobs and positive ring-effects. And if this goes away too, it'll be even less to live off and on. I think we need to take stronger action in the predatory settlement. What we have decided needs to be evaluated when necessary, and new decisions may need to be made. The different zones have to be respected, and when things don't work, you have to grab hold. Threatening grazing was probably not the trick to those who experience great losses of animals. I believe that if we are to have living areas with quality of life and a varied business life, we must have a predatory policy that is governed by this, not by having a large, sustainable predatory strain.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1328	I am very pleased that this interpellation is on the agenda. This gives us a good opportunity to discuss both the robberies agreement and to address issues that are relevant in today's situation. On this day we can read on TV 2's news pages that the wolf goes over 120 miles to find a more or less fixed or loose connection to fulfill his love relationship. It fits well on Valentine's Day, but it probably also means that the genes are mixed across miles and borders and borders. State Council Solheim said to TV 2, as it can be read, that he likes to see us put out wild, Finnish wolf to mix the genes and get a more sustainable strain. Then it's natural to ask the Council of State, where in the agreement is this? In my county, Eastfold, this has resulted in countless enquiries during the weekend and today. There is a loud debate, especially in the border regions of my county, Eastfold – in Rømskog, Aremark, Marker and Halden – where it is very wise to report that here the government comes with quite a number of regional funds to make it pleasant and pleasant to live in District Norway, build and live and establish the industry adapted to the Built Norway you are part of. Then you put the wolf in addition and take in a little bit of a wild, Finnish wolf to make it more attractive to live in these border lines. In other words, it is possible to mix two measures that make it impossible to operate the industry you are engaged in, not hunting, nor safely walking around the corner of the house without hearing a wolf’s howl or discovering the wolf. In the municipality of Eidsberg in my state, a possible new wolfevir has now been reported, and that there are wolves waiting during the spring. It is challenging to live in these areas with a heavy burden on predators while at the same time engaged in feeding and hunting. That gives us some extra challenges. It boils the senses. It is a burden that is imposed on the towns and landowners. Life’s work is lost, and hunting opportunities and the additional source of income are also reduced. I would very much like the Council of State to give feedback as to whether it is that you now have a stock that is too large, that there are 33 wolves too many, while you want to import wild, Finnish wolf and know that the wolf goes far to find a husband. Is it the case that this is based on the predatory game agreement, and is it the case that the Council of State has actually intended to implement this with the challenges that already lie in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1341	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important question. The conflict between predators and grazing has increased over decades in large parts of Norway. In my opinion, the rapprochement we got in June 2011 was a clear step in the right direction, at least if we had immediately implemented the measures outlined there. Yes, it was a prerequisite for preserving what is left of the grazing industry, and for maintaining domestic farming. We cannot imagine that a faulty predatory policy will mean the death of the South Saami tambourine operation. As we watched on TV last night, there are increasing challenges threatening domestic operations in Norway. The new predatory agreement made it clear that it should be local and regional administration. It was a clarification that where the stock targets were reached, it was going to be local management, and it was the predators who were going to set the quotas. Nevertheless, we once again experience that these local predators are being tried out. Two years ago, I met as a member of the Stortinget. Then it was the exact same situation. They were overexamined. I thought it was also contrary to the old predator agreement. Now I was glad we weren't going to have that situation again. But despite the fact that it's clarified that it's going to be local government, we're now experiencing this again. The Rovviltnemenda in region 6, which consists of Møre and Romsdal, Süd-Trøndelag and Nord-Trøndelag, was reviewed by the Ministry of the Environment. The initial 50-gap quota was reduced to 44. The reserve ratio of ten animals was removed, despite the fact that this strain had been managed very well, perhaps too well, because it is beyond 50 pst. above the target species. On a national basis, the 157-animal quota was cut to 118. As stated in the predatory settlement: ‘The objective is to strengthen the regional authority of the wild game management. The management of predatory animals must be based on a policy which, in order to ensure the survival of all the major predatory species of Norwegian nature, must be combined with an administration which, in total, helps to mitigate conflicts and counter insecurity within the two-part objective.’» The rapprochement was negotiated with a background in an ever-increasing problem of poaching. We agreed that emphasis should be placed on regional management and the two-part objective of grazing and predatory animals and on the quality of life of individuals and communities. For us who have lived decades in predatory areas, this is not an adventure of the Red Heat and the Wolf, it's actually hit serious. It is time that grazing, reindeer and all those living with predators outside the living room wall are taken seriously. Our problem is that many people basically have a relationship with the Red Heat and the Wolf and don't know this about the body. This weekend, I was at the County Council meeting at the Süd-Trøndelag Centerpartie. The feedback was clear from there: the review of decisions on the gaupe quota, which have been taken on a professional basis, is unacceptable. It's seen as a rematch on the predatory settlement. For us in the Center Party, it's important that the predatory game deal is immediately followed up before it's too late. Pastures in priority grazing areas shall no longer be present. The loss rates must be reduced to the grazing industry. We're impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1363	I think it's worth reflecting on why this case creates so much commitment, and why so many became so angry when the Ministry of the Environment made its decision to try out the local predators. I think it's because of three things. First of all, I think a lot of people had a hope that, after the robberies agreement, they would be able to calm down in the management of predators in Norway. It's only worth remembering, as also previous speakers here said, how impressive it really is that in a field where there is so much disagreement both between the parties and in and of itself also within many parties, where there are so many different opinions and so much commitment both among those who are so called predators and those who are so called predators, that one was able to gather a broad majority on the Storing for predator management. It gave hope locally – rightly. I think many people get extra disappointed and angry when they almost see at the first crossroads that there is no more tranquility around predator management in Norway, rather the opposite. The second reason – I think – is precisely what was a central component of the predatory settlement, namely the point of local administration. Now, of course, there can be professional disagreement about what is the right way to see a responsible predatory population, but there was no doubt one of the most important parts for the Right and for others in the predatory game settlement, that one should have delegation of power and real authority to local authorities. The third thing – and I think that unfortunately is beginning to be symptomatic of a lot of issues that lie at the intersection of management, protection and user interests – is the way it happens. So here's a decision that, for the area of which Telemark is part, means that the cutting rate goes down from 32 to 15 animals. It's not just an adjustment, it's over half of the number of killing permits the day before the hunt starts. As usual, I almost have to say, in this kind of case, the parties don't feel involved, they don't feel engaged, and the promise of dialogue comes after. It has become symptomatic of this government and of the Ministry of the Environment that the Minister and the Council of State always – or at least often – comes to the Stortinget with a humble attitude. It's admirable, and I appreciate it, but it's after the conflict. I understand that people are now starting to become a little impatient when it's always said that dialogue, understanding, and trying to find agreed solutions – but after that, conflicts are going to flare up again. I don't think that's necessary. I believe that in this case too, if you didn't have any intention by the government and the ministry to do something about each of these three points – that is, if you didn't think it was a general point to have peace and stability in predator management, if you didn't think it was a general point to focus more on local administration – you could at least think about the way this is presented, and the way this is done. I realize that it is probably too late to do anything about this this year, but I do not hope that next year and in the years to come, we will be in a situation where the Council of State has to come and appeal – or promise dialogue – after it has flared up a new conflict. I think people deserve peace, order and stability in predator management. It also means that the Norwegian government — or the state, the department, the directorate — has to deal with the situation in a much more humble way than what has been done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1386	This is a matter that really arouses emotions, I think, in most states. I think it's pretty interesting to record that after the last summer conciliation there has been a broad political consensus on what you want. Just a few days ago, the president of the Central Party, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, was out in a state of unrest over the desire to open up more local governance and self-determination. It was the Council of State's own words that they wanted it to be more municipal self-determination. So the day before the start of the Gaupe hunt in Telemark, there is a decision from the Ministry of the Environment, which is based only on the reports received from the Directorate, which clearly states that the recommendations and decisions of the local predators are completely disregarded. That means that in the part that Telemark is in, you have to reduce from 32 to 15 animals, as the previous speaker also said. It is then important to bear in mind that the Environmental Protection Department in the Buskerud County Municipality, which is a case-by-case preparer for the robbery, recommends 30. Nevertheless, the Department strongly recommends ignoring what the County Environmental Protection Department, which is preparing a case in Buskerud, recommends, and thus halves the recommendation of that department. What's sad about what's happening now – I'm afraid I have to agree with the previous speaker – is that we've probably come a little too far this year. But what this contributes to is that last summer's settlement is about to be undermined. Not least the local predators are in the process of being undermined. It's very sad that the ministry in this way only takes account of one party, that is, the directorate and the recommendations that come from there, and does not take into account those who sit as elected representatives of predators. I think they actually have very good competence to say what's best for their region and their domain. I really hope that this is the last time we feel that we are undermining the agreement that this House has made, and that in the future we listen to the local predators and ensure that what is adopted there is actually followed up, in order to ensure the legitimacy of these samples and, not least, to ensure the legitimacy of the decisions we take in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1395	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I would also like to welcome the invitation from the Minister for Dialogue. But it is also important, as the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen says, that it should come first. What we see now is unfortunate. Marianne Marthinsen talked about the two-part goal. There's a two-part goal we want to practice. There is no one who wants to eradicate the forest game in Norway, but a two-part objective is required. This means that you must have a fast lab management that is trusted, not least. She also says that the Ministry of the Environment has the right and the duty to review. I think it sounds really good. Well, that's what we've seen from now: the reactions that they've used the right and the obligation to over-test. When we know that the basis is an unfinished forecast model, this is unfortunate. Otherwise there was an attempt at praise from the representative Grimstad, and of course we take that to ourselves. This inter-pelling debate is an initiative to have a debate on predatory game policy, and, like the representative Grimstad, the Right has been concerned about the handling of the 2004 robbery game deal that we have seen. The representative, Eli Skoland, concluded that the wolf in Norway is Russian, which is also in the basic paper for the robberies negotiations. She also pointed out the cases of Dørum and Kleiva, which are now pending before the Supreme Court – a very serious and important matter. It is an example of the overstepping of rights and nutrition. Otherwise, the representative Sande has had some fun compared to the statements made in the media. But it's important to bring along what's being said about taking out pests before the grazing season starts. I just want to point out what's happening, and the challenges that one has in Sogn and Fjordne, where none of the four yer habits that go on the yerve quota, have been taken out. It is a challenge that the Council of State must also take with it, how one solves it further in the future. There have been many exciting recordings. I see very clearly that there is a need to have a debate going on about predatory game. There are many who are concerned about these challenges, and I think we are right to continue that debate in a factual and good way too. Right should be the host for it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1410	Let me also thank the representative Bjørn Lødemel for a good interpellation, a really nice debate for which it has been set up, and also the call for further cooperation. As I said, the conciliators will be called to a meeting in the near future, and there will certainly be ample opportunity to come back to this in Stortinget. I'm based on what I'm sure is the vast, broad, often tause majority in Norway – in a debate that is often dominated by the extremes – that wants to support Storting's policy, that is to say, that we should have both the outdoors industry and predators in Norway. It is fixed now by a unanimous staging, and until recently by a nearly unanimous staging. All the studies show that there is a large, large majority of the people there. Then we, and also the Stortinget, have a responsibility not to allow the extremes to express the debate. I take to heart what Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said, and which others have also been involved in in various forms, namely that I am sure that environmental management can be more humble, that we should be more good at dialogue in advance of the decisions and not afterwards. At the same time I play the ball a little back to Stortinget, because some of the posts I hear here, for all practical purposes, is an attack on the predatory settlement itself. For example, when you have: argues that we should not have wolves in Norway because there are wolves in Russia and elsewhere, that is contrary to what the Storting itself has laid down. And it's unfortunate if big-time representatives – of course, they are free to do so – argue for their opinions, but then one must also make it clear that one argues against one's own party and what the Storting has decided, otherwise the debate becomes unexplained. It will be a very difficult debate if you first decide something here, and then representatives will run around and find something wrong with it, and criticize. What's been going on in particular is the globular ratios. Let me just say that I have one ambition: we're going to satisfy the Storting's prey settlement to the point and the dot. We're going to do that using the local predators as the most important tool. They have to be responsible. All those who have criticised have skipped a relationship: what should the Ministry of the Environment do when a predatory game name adds up to a hunting quota that obviously violates the Grotinge's prey settlement? It may not be as clear in the other two cases, but in the case of Nordland, it's going to be a halve of the globular population there, as we see it, in relation to the bigton's wild game settlement. That leads to that we should intervene. If the Stortinget is not meant to intervene, it should be made clear, so that we can at least invite a dialogue on what to do in such cases. It is said that it is an unfinished model. Yes, I agree. It's unfinished, like everything in this area, but it's the best we have. We don't have any better way of calculating this. Finally, let me underline what I have said: If it turns out that the Ministry of the Environment has made a mistake in this, that we get a higher log population in the three areas than we think, of course, we should be the first to correct that error and make sure that several bumps are removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1427	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1433	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on case No. 1 has already been adopted for consideration in a later meeting. In Case No: 2–4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-14.ana.ud1315e1470	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
