ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e99	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative, Mette Hanekamhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e106	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Tord Lien, Bente Thorsen and myself, I am delighted to propose more physical activity in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e111	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e125	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e134	A few days ago we received the happy message that Norway is once again the world’s best motherland, the world’s best woman country, and the world’s best country. For the third year in a row, Norway is at the top of the list of the best country to be a mother in. There is no doubt that an active, conscious and action-oriented gender equality policy has our say that we are at the top of this table. The results we're looking at today's gender equality field are the result of a conscious policy. Interestingly, when we achieve good results through actions we have seen in the works, which the Right Party and the Progress Party have opposed, they are nevertheless very pleased with the results we achieve. In addition to measures and instruments of family, gender and labour policy, an active policy on restraint is important. Changing the behaviors takes some time. The Right Party and the Advance Party propose today to remove the right of leave of the father. For example, in Denmark, where they eliminated the birth rate in 2001, differences between women and men have increased. In Norway, in spite of the good tools of fathers' dishes, in eight out of ten cases women still take out the full leave. Therefore, the changes and clarifications we are making in the legislative proposal today are important to clarify that there is a parental leave scheme and not just a maternity leave. We say very often that it is not oil that is key to economic growth, it is labour, and it is not least female labour. I'm equally proud every time we visit delegations from abroad, like the election rates of this house to right what we've done to get the results that we have in the equality field. When we look back to 1993, we got the birth rate, and it was only 2-3 pst. Norwegian fathers who took leave were already able to see that the whole of 40 pst. took out leave. Today, the vast majority of men take out the whole family quota, and we are very happy about that. As a politician, a lot of requests come from people. I have to admit, it's not just praise for a sheep. But in June last year, when we extended father's right to paper commission further, from ten to twelve weeks, there were actually several nice phones I got. I got a phone call from a father who had had a child before the birth quota and a "approached" something later. He could describe it as two quite different further, both that he could bring it as a tool to his employer, but also perhaps in the discussion at home. He also said that it was important to retain this right, so that one can see that women and men should have equal rights to caregivers. For the Labour Party, it is important to look at family and gender policies in the context of employment policy. More like-minded parenthood is good for father, for mother and for child. I also mean that children tend to get acquainted with both parents. It has been and is an important objective for us to help mothers and fathers combine care for small children and professional activity. In the debate, it sometimes seems that the right-hand side wants us to sacrifice the children on the altar of equality. But it's not in any way like that. I am happy to see investigations that claim that children are harming more like-minded parents. The more like-minded couples differ less rarely, they argue less, and the fact that the kids get together with both parents more, I think is a good thing. I want to fight for women to have the opportunity to do everything, but I also want to fight for the right for women not to do everything. It is important for both father, mother, child and society, otherwise we make women stand stronger in the workplace, and father stronger at home. The legislative proposal we are putting forward today is, in principle, important because he eliminates the discrimination in today's system that mother's statutory part is less than father's. There is sometimes a perception that the weeks outside the parental quota are maternity leave. It's not like that. The system is now more equalised by the fact that mother and father are legally given twelve weeks each. Then it's the remainder of 33 weeks, which is the largest part, which is for free distribution between parents. We're busy with flexible and good arrangements, while it's important that both parents have equal legal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e155	Up to several times in this period, we have been allowed to discuss the feather quota in this room. So today we are going to discuss the mother's quota. As the rapporteur was at the point, on Monday we could read that for the third consecutive year, we have been assigned to the world's best country to live in for mothers. It shows that we are lucky to live in one of the world's best countries, which have the good welfare and leave arrangements and the childcare arrangements that we have here in Norway. Yes, Norway is a good country to live in, but the Progress Party wants to make it one of the world's best countries to live in for the whole family, not just for the mothers. Now, when we're going to discuss this matter of thirds, it doesn't come as a surprise to the opposition. This is something that has been notified by the government for a long time, although we have been able to read several times that there has been a disagreement about this internally. Nevertheless, the proposal that we are going to consider today is just a basic and signal proposal from the government, which is that it should be earmarked for the same number of weeks for each of the parents, the so-called mother's quota. It's a theme that shows the difference between the right-hand side and the red-green in family policy. Where government parties hold on to a system, the right-hand side talks about the families. Where the majority talk about equality, we talk about freedom of choice for families. The Council of State said in the daily newspaper today that there will be a «freedom revolution» with today's decision. Then there's a question what she means by that. At least it won't be a freedom for families to choose their own daily lives and how they will distribute their weeks. The Progress Party will not support this proposal. We believe that the quota for fathers, and now the quota for mothers, reduces the freedom of choice for families. We want to put the families – and not least the children – first, not get more and more allowances that restrict each family. The entire government's proposal on quotas will have an unfortunate impact on the family, and it will finally – no matter what the case-rapporteur says – go out on the kids. If the parents don't take out the full allowance, the child loses time with one of the parents. This is how the country uses the child as an instrument of gender equality policy. Gender equality statistics are obviously so important to the government that they are willing to take time from young children with their parents in order for the government to achieve its policy objectives. The case rapporteur and the red-greens go out into the media and drive terror propaganda by saying that if the right-hand side gets through their proposal, they will rage the whole feather quota, then they will eliminate the feather quota – yes, it becomes too dangerous for fathers in this country whose right-hand side gets a majority. I can assure all small children's families and future parents that this is not going to be the case. The progress party can guarantee that families will have the same number of weeks as today, but unlike the government, we have faith that each family will be able to distribute these weeks itself. The Progress Party is committed to providing the family with flexibility and freedom of choice to distribute parental leave among themselves. Freedom and flexibility are important for families, and I state that each family has different needs and different conditions to take into account. There must be room for it. The current parental leave scheme is complex and has far-reaching weaknesses in the area of discrimination between mothers and fathers. It must therefore be a priority task to investigate and present a simplified and more equal system than what we have today. It is important that parents are not just equal when it comes to the distribution of leave. It seems like it's very important for this government to get through to. But you also have to look at the right of withdrawal. The progress party has, as I said, confidence that today's and tomorrow's fathers choose to spend time at home with their newborn children, because we know that many fathers want this for themselves. The attitudes have changed a lot in the last 20 years, and many of today's young fathers want to take out more leave than the weeks that today's legislation requires them to do. The parental leave shall not be an instrument in the gender equality struggle but a welfare asset belonging to the families with children. A society with less state governance and more freedom for individuals is important. The family itself must be given the opportunity to provide a good framework for their children and to create good family life. I would like to stress that the free distribution of parental leave is not about removing the week of father or mother, as the majority likes to make it. The leave is going to contain exactly the same number of weeks, but we want to give families the freedom of choice to distribute these weeks according to their own needs. With that, I address the minority proposals that lie in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e174	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e177	Because all people are born different and with different desires and needs, freedom to choose how to live one's life is important to the Right. The feeling of freedom can be so lacking, but the freedom many value in everyday life, for example, is. the freedom to choose education for their children. Freedom is closely linked to responsibility. In the Right, we believe that good life is followed by taking responsibility for our own lives, and we all agree that the kids are the parents' foremost and greatest responsibility in life. We in the right are therefore committed to ensuring that parents retain responsibility for their children. The reality for families is that everyday life is very different. This is precisely why the challenges of everyday life for the different families must be important when setting the framework for the family policy of the future at Stortinget. I am therefore proud of the proposals that the Progress Party and the Right are promoting today. It is proposals that give freedom of choice to the families of young children. There are proposals that show that as politicians, we trust that parents are the best people to take responsibility and make choices for the benefit of their children. I am concerned about the allocation of allowances we have now received in the parental leave, where the objective of full equality and that mother and father should take out equal days of parental leave are more important than the care of a young child. If a father runs a small company, for example. a small joiner, who accounts for the main income in the family, and who actually serves the mortgage for the family, cannot take out the twelve weeks, then the twelve weeks are not transferred to the mother. No, the 12 weeks are taken from the family, and the child must be sent earlier to the nursery. However, the government has not provided a complete scheme, because even if a family has to send the child to kindergarten when it is nine months old, there is no claim today for kindergarten or cash support until the child is 13 months old. There's still a big gap here, and there's no whole in the proposals that are being put forward. It's a problem for the Right that the kid has to pay the price of the equality fight. Right is very happy that many fathers want to be home and take out more than their quota. We think that's important, but we trust that today's generation of fathers are so busy being at home with the child in the first year of life that we don't think the quota is necessary. Then we also think that this is a matter where the mothers don't get anything good either. In that case with the carpenter, which I talked about instead, where he doesn't take out his twelve weeks because he has to get income to pay the mortgage, what happens when he doesn't take out his full allowance? They cannot send the child to kindergarten, they do not receive cash support – then it is the mother who must be at home on unpaid leave. Then it's the mother who has to go home without getting a penny from the state, without having to earn her pension rights and so on. I can't believe that's a good equality policy. That's why Right is busy knowing how many women there are now who have to take unpaid leave because the family is unable to align with the A4 solution that the government is putting up with. For people who work in public, and people who have great flexibility in their work, this works very well. It's very nice that mother and father can share large parts of the leave. But for all those people around Norway who do not fit into the government's gender equality model, this is a problem. That's Right's concern. That is why I am very pleased that the Progress Party and the Right are united today to simplify the entire parental leave scheme, so that parents can freely distribute the leave between themselves, and the most important thing for the entire leave scheme is the consideration of the young child.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e192	I'm glad we're going to make a decision on a third of the parental leave today. The proposal that now exists is simply an equality of leave time, all the time when Mother today actually has a statutory share that is less than Dad's. So now there's a mother's quota corresponding to the 12 week parental quota, which means that the child is entitled to an equal amount of time allowance with both mother and father after birth. Children’s contact with both parents from the start is important in order to be both able to be and remain good caregivers for the child. It's good for the child, it's good for mom, and it's good for dad, among other things. because it leads to a more equal family where mother and father link well to the child from the start and contribute to a better distribution of care and work sharing in the home as the child grows up. If they're both used to having equal responsibilities from the start, it's much more likely that it's also followed up when the child gets bigger. The right-hand side and the Progression Party indicate that giving parents the opportunity to share the entire leave period is a real recognition of mother and father as equivalent caregivers. I think it's strange that it's going to be the opposite of having a third where both parents have equal rights to one allowance, and then the remaining majority of free use is between the parents. Today, in fact, Father has a greater share of leave time than Mother. Even though Dad's part is larger, it's going to be 82 pst. by the time of leave just taken by the mother. This figure was higher before a spring quota was introduced. When history has shown that father almost does not take leave without it being put in expectation of him, I believe there will be utopia with the Right and the optimistic attitude of the Advance Party that fathers in the future will choose to spend time at home with their newborn child. Traditionally, the leave period has been seen more or less as the mother's right to be at home with the child. We often hear that we have the birth rate, and then it's the mother's leave. When the father quota was introduced in Norway, we saw a dramatic increase in the number of fathers who took leave, precisely because then there was a expectation that even father would be at home with the child, and not least expectations in society and probably in the parents themselves. Similarly, we see in the Nordic countries. In Denmark, where they have no parental quota, three-quarters of fathers do not take out any leave. It is also the Danish fathers who have the lowest withdrawal of the parental killers, 8 pst. of the total number of days of leave. In Sweden, the fathers take out 24 pst. and on Iceland 32 p.p. Then it's worth noting that Iceland has a third, where they also have the longest feather ratio. In Norway, fathers take out 18 pst. I hope that the share of 18 pst. Now we're going to increase when we get a distinct third. With today's system, where we have a father's quota, unfortunately, the expectation is that father will take the father's quota, mother the rest. With a third, we're told that mom and dad have a minimum right each, and then the rest can be freely distributed. Hopefully, this can help take a greater share of the leave period out of father. Awareness is important, and now we get it. Then it is important to raise awareness for the family that they have to sit down and really discuss who will take how much time, and not least for the employer, that the employer also has a expectation that father will be at home with children. A more equal take-off of leave time will also be good for society because it allows more people to work and have children, because more women can come back to work faster, and fewer people get long breaks from work. It will be good for women because society will then have a more equal expectation of the responsibilities and care of young men and women at home. So it's still pointed out, isn't it for the best of children that we're going to have leave arrangements? Yes, it is, but I also believe that it is for the best for children that we have an equal family, a family where father and mother feel the same obligations, the same responsibility for taking responsibility for children from the infant period onwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e209	Earlier this week, Norway, which has several visitors to it, was named the world’s best mother country. It can be easy to forget when focus in Norway is about wanting more, and wanting to continue. I think we sometimes have to take time to reflect that the arrangements we have with parental leave, because very many will appear to be a gift package. It could be said that it will apply in many other areas, including in a Europe of crisis. But even before the economic crisis, there was still a very good deal between the good arrangements we have in Norway and the arrangements we want to find in the United States, Germany or other European countries – even when you look at birth figures. We have very noisy arrangements and absolutely a real opportunity to combine work and having children. Nor is it entirely unreasonable to expect – with such a comprehensive scheme as we actually have in Norway – to impose any requirements and that this scheme has some assumptions. Without these assumptions, such a comprehensive system as we have in Norway would lead to a very imbalance and a retreat for equality. It is almost fascinating, when you look around Europe and compare us with other countries, that there are actually some in Norway that make it a problem that father has a right. I've said it before, and I can say it again: Twelve weeks in either the first year or spread over the first three years, which you can spend with your new family member, should be a gift and not something that is difficult to prioritize. You have 12 weeks, and you can use a flexible socket. That it should be a completely impossible problem, I find it a little difficult to accept. I think it's just as much about the expectations society has, and what kind of expectations the family itself – and father – has about how getting a new family member will actually affect life. Then there are some, today a majority of women, who want to be longer at home. Today, cash support – the possibility has been provided there – ensures a good transition from the time of parental leave to possible kindergarten later. Through the case we're dealing with today, we're going in for equal allowances for mother and father and a larger allowance that is for distribution between parents. It ensures a good distribution while at the same time ensuring freedom of choice. Then we make demands, and we grant rights to the families who use the offer, while at the same time we have flexible solutions. I am concerned that family policy should be lifted. This may conflict with other interests. But when the right today says that reserving twelve weeks to father is sacrificing the child's best on the altar of equality, there's a world I don't know in. How should a paid leave for mother, e.g. Forty-five weeks, or 42 if we ignore the three weeks she has before birth, be unfinded against Norwegian women? Then you have to take a look around Europe. Freedom of choice is important, and it is important that the family is focused – but it is not the spring quota that prevents family policy from being more focused in Norway. It is important to me that when we now introduce a father's quota and give a father a right, it should actually have an effect in the long term. Because it's not the twelve weeks, or if you're going to take more, that alone will create changes – but it's an important first step to get a more balanced distribution of responsibilities. That's something we won't get a complete answer to until the system of a pretty rough spring quota has worked over a few years. The case we are dealing with today is very positive for those who already have rights, for those who currently actually have quite noisy arrangements. But there are those who fall outside today's system: those who have not earned rights through the world of work. In my opinion, that's a pretty unreasonable difference in the rights you have if you're inside, and if you're outside and you don't have any rights. I think it's a challenge we have to solve. I think it will also give more flexibility in terms of when you choose to have children. I think that if more people had chosen to have children at a different time in life, without both parents necessarily having a full job, maybe the timing and stress that many people experience in the first few years with young children would have been a little different. Therefore, it is important to me that, when we are also going to discuss parental leave and parental quota, not only can we focus on increasing the rights of those who currently have it quite well, but also actually look at the rights of those who fall outside the current system. The system we have today provides a very strong framework for when many people feel it is financially sound to have children. I think it's part of maybe both our birth figures in the future and the life situation that many people are in, where you get kids late, with the complications that it can actually lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e232	In the light of the debate on the issue we are dealing with today, it is good to start by clarifying that parental killers do not have primarily for adults, and because of different policy objectives on how we believe adults should live their lives and distribute different tasks among themselves. We don't have parental benefits for the sake of working life, or the social economy. We have custody beds primarily for the sake of the children. This debate shows, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, how the right side and the left side go again in each of their ideological, deep trenches. The right-hand side goes a little bit away in its own principles. If you are concerned about freedom of choice, you must actually see the context in which the choices are made. You can't ignore it and give the impression that the choices are made in a vacuum. It is still the case in Norway in 2012 that if a woman or a man goes to his employer and says that now you are waiting for a child, you do not actually get the same response. For women, the employer will often only automatically congratulate and start planning how to manage without the female worker for the next nine, ten, eleven, twelve months – plan for it. When a man comes to tell you that you are waiting for a child, the employer says, "I hope you don't take too long leave, and I'd like to take it in connection with the summer vacation or quiet periods at work, so that we can get this to float as much as possible, without too many problems at work and long vicariates. The attitudes of employers and others in society help to shape the choices we make. This is precisely why the birth rate is an important men's ear card in Norway in 2012, which can be addressed to the employer, perhaps sometimes also to the mother, when the need is there, to ensure that many men are given the opportunity to make the choices they actually want to make. So the family quota strengthens the real freedom of choice for young fathers. So the left-hand side has seen the need for paperwork, but the argument is very impressive that they know best what are good solutions for families around the country. You hear that from the argument here today. If you take the red-green seriously, it's easy to ask: is it not logical then to introduce 50/50 immediately and remove the optional part – if the logic is that for all families it's better the same as you distribute? We've also seen that when the red-greens have expanded the feather ratio, you've eaten the flexible part, and you've also announced a goal of expanding it to 14 weeks for father and 14 weeks for mother. The Christian People's Party defends the father's quota. We want to keep the feather quota as a trump card in the sleeve of Norwegian men. We see that we still need, and we will need that for a long time to come, as society is today. We also believe that there is a fine marking of a common and equivalent responsibility between men and women that there is the same number of weeks reserved for mother, which is reserved for father. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be ten weeks for mother and ten weeks for father, while at the same time extending the total parental leave period to give even more flexibility, which means that parents can distribute this time beyond more of the child's years of life than the first year of life or the first three years of life, and that one can use it beyond the infant phase. I therefore take up the Christian People's Party proposal in the vote. Then I would like to stress that I am pleased that the Centre Party has also mentioned what has been the Christian People's Party's involvement in budget proposals following budget proposals for many, many years, namely the rights of those who have not worked out their rights in the labour market: the one-off benefit must be lifted. I hope the Council of State takes note of the challenge of the Center Party, and we also invite the Centre Party to support the Christian People's Party's annual budget proposal to raise the one-off subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e251	Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e254	Today, the size has to deal with legislative proposals on the third division of the parental leave period. The proposal, which is a follow-up to the equal pay notification, implies the introduction of a mother’s quota of the same duration as the father’s quota. Parents are equated by being given the eartag right into the same period of time after birth. At the same time, the proposal guarantees freedom of choice, or flexibility, by many weeks in the public domain, which parents can freely choose between themselves. I want to hurry to add – as free as possible from the individual family. I'll come back to this with the concept of freedom afterwards. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party will leave the distribution of leave weeks to their parents. To that I would say that the father quota has been crucial so that the large majority of fathers can now choose to take parental leave, and that many take more than the quota. In Denmark, which closed the parental quota in 2002, there is much lower parental exit among fathers than in Norway and Sweden. As somebody's been going on here before, it's going to be more than 90 pst. of the fathers in Norway withdraws maternity leave, compared with approx. one quarter of Danish fathers. What I have been informed about is that the Danes are now considering reintroducing the family quota, precisely because they see that there are so many barriers that Danish fathers face, that they have to take it seriously if they want fathers to get to know their children, and that the children will have fathers present, which in turn will give mothers greater freedom of choice. Norwegian fathers have constantly increased their withdrawal from parental leave, but mothers continue to take the most out. Last year just turned 18 pst. of all parental leave days taken out of Norwegian fathers. There may be a barrier to fathers’ withdrawals that there is a spring quota without a corresponding mother’s quota. It can create a notion, both at the parents and at the employers, that Dad has the right to the father quota only – the rest belongs to mother. Third, the period underlines that the common part belongs to both parents. They have to sit down together and agree on how to distribute the weeks. It can lead to more conscious choices. Increasing distribution of leave between mothers and fathers is positive for the child and for both parents. The child gets good contact with and care from both parents and can build close relationships with both mother and father early. Parents get a stronger community about the child and the parent role. I just can't believe it could be against the best of the child. Both parents enjoy a more balanced distribution of work and tasks at home. Mother is given the opportunity to return to work earlier and avoids long breaks with loss of pay and career development. Father is strengthened in his care role and is given the opportunity to stay home full-time with the child over a longer period of time. So research shows that gender equality at home contributes to more robust living. Men and women living in equal relationships experience higher quality of life than other groups. They have a better relationship, lower level of conflict and more stability. This is not least for the benefit of the children. The current legislative proposal facilitates greater equality between mothers and fathers and more equal parents. The changes will be positive for both mother, father and children, and they will contribute to the reduction of traditional gender stereotypes in society, i.e. expectations for us as sex. I am pleased that the legislative proposal has the support of the majority of the committee. But I think it's a pity that the Right and Advance Party are raising the tab to the degrees that they're doing to this quota scheme that we've chosen in Norway. I think there have been many good arguments in the Chamber here from representatives from both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. I would say to the representative Horne of the Progress Party that what I mean is that this is a freedom revolution is that men are now given the opportunity to choose to be caregivers. They release fences and barriers. Women get to be more equal workers, and they get men taking their share of responsibility, which in turn gives more freedom to women. The children get a freedom by becoming acquainted with both their parents, they get present parents, they get parents who also follow them up if they get a divorce. We do this in order for parents of both sexes to be able to follow their dreams, that they should not primarily be a sex and be met with expectations that relate to them as sex, but that the roles should be more free and expanded, and that they should be able to choose much more freely what kind of life they want to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e276	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e279	First, I just want to say that the Progress Party wants the families to have a freedom revolution, but we must probably wait until 2013, and then we will see what happens then. As the scheme is today – and remains after today’s decision – there are a lot of parents struggling with a bureaucratic and complex system to get the leave out. We know that Nav has approx. half a million requests per year. Nav has also said that if they had put in place an online system, they could have saved up to 600 years' worth of work. In Sweden, they have an online system, and when the undersigned took this up in this room with former councillor Audun Lysbakken, he said that our system was so difficult that it was difficult to get a model similar to the Swedish one. But it has to be possible to get a better model for the families, so they can choose to do this at home. Is there something the Council of State wants to work on?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e288	We're working on simplification in this system, and I want us to get a simpler system in Norway. It is true, however, that my predecessor said that there is a very big difference between the Swedish system and the Norwegian system. My approach is that we want a system that is as simple as possible, and then we have to discuss the line of work into this and what requirements should be set for participation in this case. That is why we have chosen the solution that we have in Norway, and therefore we also need to monitor how parents choose to set up. But we are discussing this. So I just want to say to this that the family is going to get a freedom revolution, that I can't understand it. If either mothers or fathers will experience that they cannot choose equally freely because they meet employers who say no, you cannot take out more leave, you cannot choose to be at home with your children, because we expect you to be full of work, there is no freedom – or when women have to take a greater responsibility because men are not allowed to be at home as much because employers have these expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e295	I'm going to leave this debate on revolution, because there's nothing we in the Right are so very concerned about. What we in the right are concerned about in this context is the child. If we put rhetoric aside and concentrate on the fact, in some cases it's like -- to put it that way -- that dad doesn't have the ability to take out the full length of leave, and then the family loses that period of leave. It's a fact. What I want to hear from the Council of State's response and attitude to – and not the political rhetoric attached to it – is: What does the Council of State as Minister of Children do for the children who lose time at home with the family? Or let me ask the question this way: Is the Council willing to look at solutions that make children not lose time at home, even if Dad does not have the opportunity to follow the quota arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e302	As long as the red-green government has been sitting, we have done something to expand the possibility for children to be with their parents and for children to be safe in their care situation. The kindergarten reform – I guess that’s a good concept for the Right – is an example of that. We've expanded the parental leave period. And then we have e.g. granted to the seafarer the possibility to take leave of 100 pst. basis of remuneration, as opposed to 65 pst, as it used to be. It's also a way to make sure that the children can be with their parents. But I agree with the representative Nilsson Ramsøy in her considerations about this. It's like that over 90 pst. Norwegian fathers take out the parental leave, and we have very flexible arrangements that go over three years. They have e.g. the possibility to take one day out for 60 weeks. So there's a lot of flexibility in the solutions that we have today. But of course, we have to work to make them even more flexible and even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e312	In the Christian People's Party, we may have a somewhat strenuous relationship with the Freedom Revolution, and neither are we so much in favour of the armed revolution. Far's revolution, on the other hand, as we've seen in the last ten years, we're very active supporters of. I hear the council is happy with the paperwork, the father's quota, and that's where we share the commitment. The question goes a little bit about how we take care of it. The father ratio has had a very positive reputation and broad support in Norway, and it is estimated that it is in a good way a trump card to have in the sleeve of young fathers. But then over the last few years, we have seen that polls show increased support for the proposals of the right-wing parties to remove the federal quota, against which both the Council of State and the undersigned are opposed. Does the Council of State see that going too far in detail management and increasing the feather quota too much, so that a retailer controls the families too much, can actually turn back on support for the feather quota and thus work against his purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e319	I think that's a question that we should always discuss. But what is very reassuring is that the development of attitudes is probably not like the representative of Hope sketches. The survey called the 2010 Children’s Surveillance Survey, for which the Central Statistical Office was responsible, shows that only about 5 pst. by the mothers and 3 pst. by the fathers who believe that there should be no spring quota at all. The vast majority – in fact the entire 80 pst. Of all the parents – either want the quota ideally to be as it is, and that was then ten weeks in 2010, or that it should be extended further, and we have done so, to twelve weeks. So there's strong support in the populations of this scheme, unlike what any later to believe, and especially the right parties. I think it's about seeing what barriers it is that they meet in their daily lives that make them unable to follow their dreams completely freely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e324	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e329	It was especially the post from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland that made me ask for the floor. I have heard a lot both in this debate and in previous debates on parental leave, and I must say that I react very strongly as a man and as a father to the fact that it is presented as if this scheme is rigid, and as if it is almost a victim of fathers having to be away from work and at home and take responsibility for children. I react to it, I don't find myself in it, and I also feel that the very most fathers in Norway have a completely different opinion from that expressed by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland from this pulpit. It is a privilege that we too, as fathers, can be at home with children and have fatherhood. Studies show that in the population and, in particular, among young children’s parents, there is strong support for the parental leave scheme and the way it is organised today. But then the families would like to decide for themselves, and I fully agree with that. That's why the system is very flexible, and we're constantly working to make it even more flexible and even easier to understand. The proposals of the Right and the Advance Party in this matter will, in effect, limit the freedom of small children's families. They present it as if this would give freedom. No, this will limit people's freedom. The fathers who have an employer who does not want their father to be away from work, but stay on the job, lose the opportunity – and that trump card, as Øyvind Hope calls it – to tell the employer that no, I should actually be home, I have a right to it. Fathers who experience that their mother is standing in the way and prefer to have the leave period on their own have the same trump card. The children, if you ask them, which of course prefers both parents to be at home, lose freedom by that fewer fathers will be at home. And mothers who experience having a partner who does not take enough responsibility at home lose freedom and the trump card you have to say that you should also be at home and take your share of responsibility. No one in this room believes that more fathers will be at home with children by cutting in the father’s quota. It is presented from the Right here as if men are indispensable at work, but there is never anything to say that mother is indispensable at work. It should be a matter of course – and I hope that we can get there, including cross-political – that men too are inexorable. But that's what illustrates the problem in the equality debate, that men think they're indispensable at work, and women think they're indispensable at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e340	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Case No. 2 and Case No. 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e367	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. The President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e374	Today, the size of the population will adopt a change in the law that will provide better protection for the most vulnerable young people in our society, namely those who are at risk of trafficking in human beings. The protection of children and the police is increasingly revealing children who are exposed to trafficking in human beings, and by the end of 2010, 23 children were exposed to trafficking in human beings who received assistance and protection of child protection. Just compared to the previous year, it was a double. All of these cases that are now being detected are children of foreign origin. There are lonely, minor asylum seekers, there are children who come here without applying for asylum – and on that basis there is suspicion – and there are children who live illegally here in Norway. We see that the number of children who need this kind of help has increased significantly in recent years. There is also reason to believe that there is a great deal of darkness here, because neither police nor child protection agencies can succeed in revealing all these kids, who definitely need help. Trafficking in human beings is a serious crime, which comes under Section 224 of the Criminal Code. In addition to the fact that it is a serious criminal act for which these kids are a victim, we have a duty to help these children and give them protection. We also have international obligations that oblige Norway to do so. It is the Palermo Protocol, it is the United Nations Children's Convention, it is the OSCE's action plan against trafficking in human beings, and it is the Council of Europe's Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings. What is common to these children is that they are under the control of backers who force them either to perform prostitution, forced labour, the sale of drugs, other criminal acts or, for that matter, begging. These children have been trained to avoid contact with police and authorities and are instructed to contact the backers if child protection, police or other authorities are trying to help them. Therefore, in very many cases it is difficult to get in touch with these young people and provide them with help. There are several provisions in the legislation on the protection of children which allow for the placing of young people in an institution, both with and without the consent of the institution. On the other hand, the law does not provide for comprehensive protection measures, which are necessary for these young people, and which are necessary to protect them and to keep them away from the traffickers. These safeguards, which are intended to restrict the child’s access to visits, to take them away from the mobile, to restrict freedom of movement and to restrict contact with the child, are of such an intrusive nature that a clear legal framework is necessary. To date, we have not had the clear legal framework necessary to provide young people with both an offer in a child protection institution and these protective measures necessary to protect them from human traffickers. Therefore, the proposal proposes to amend §5-9 of the Children's Protection Act and to introduce a new §4-29, which provides a separate basis of reference for the placement of this particular group. It is a unanimous committee that supports the legislative proposal. It's only in a small area there's a slight difference in our assessments. This concerns the issue of emergency decisions. Here the government has followed the National Attorney's suggestion that the police's assessment is not an absolute prerequisite for a temporary emergency decision. In the interests of the child, it may be necessary to take an emergency decision before the police have completed the investigation. In ordinary placement decisions, however, decided by the county council, it must be based on the police’s assessment of the danger of trafficking in human beings and the child’s need for protection before placing the children at the institution. The majority believe that an ordinary siting decision is of such an intrusive nature that conditions need to be imposed and that the recommendation of the police must be used as a basis for the decision. But it is a unanimous committee that supports the legislative proposal, and it is an important proposal to protect the most vulnerable and vulnerable young people in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e393	I can say that I fully agree with what the rapporteur has presented, and this is a very important matter that I am pleased that we are getting in place today. These are children who are in a very vulnerable situation, and therefore it is important that we get a law in place, so that we can secure these children. What is important for the Progress Party is that there is a concern in the consultation opinions regarding cooperation between the different levels. The importance of cooperation between police, child protection and non-resident authorities in such matters. It's Alpha and Omega to help these kids. The children’s ombudsman has expressed concern that this is not working properly enough. We have to put in place skills to take care of these children. I hope that the Council of State will take it with her, and that she will follow the cooperation between the various agencies that are working on this, particularly well. There are no clear procedures for determining the age of these children. We know from several examples that there are behinders who are cynical and equip children with false identity, but they may also have real documents with false information on them. We know that's happening, and it doesn't make sense to be blue-eyed and not believe it. It is therefore important to establish clear guidelines and a clear division of responsibilities with regard to age-setting. It is also something that the Progress Party believes the government must take with it in the further work. In the setting, it may appear that there is a disagreement about the location of these children. I would like to say that there is no disagreement on the part of the Progress Party, but I am concerned when the majority believe that there is institutional position that is the most suitable for these children in such situations. I think it's important that we know that there are different children with different needs, and that we can look at other solutions and don't depend on these children having to go to an institution, if they can get a different place. Here it is important to see the needs of individual children and what is best to ensure the anonymity and protection of the individual child. Placing a child at an institution, perhaps with other adults or older children, can be directly irresponsible. It is the concern of the Progress Party that we do not insist that it should be in an institution, but that we can also look at the child and focus on the child: the needs of the child, and the measures that each child needs to take to ensure its future life and to ensure protection for that child.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e406	Every year thousands of people are exposed to trafficking, many of which are children. Also in Norway, children are bought and sold, and we know that Norway is used as a transit country for trade in children. Trafficking in human beings knows no borders. It is a global problem that is governed by international criminal networks. Those who exploit children for human trafficking commit a serious crime and seriously violate their children’s human rights. These children are exploited for begging, theft, drug trafficking and prostitution. When we discover that children may be exposed to trafficking in human beings, it is therefore important to act quickly in order to secure the child before it disappears or comes into contact with its backers, as the rapporteur explained in his statement. Therefore, in order to provide these children with the protection and care they need, there will be a need in some situations to get them safe and implement strict safeguards, even if the child does not consent. The problem has been that trafficking in human beings with children is not covered by current legislation. Child protection, police and other authorities have not had the tools they need to combat trafficking in human beings and to protect these children. In Oslo, how many of the children are exposed to human trafficking, the municipality has underlined that they have had free capacity to help these children, but they have still not been able to help, because they would then break today's child protection law. I want to highlight the efforts of the Social Agency in Oslo, Anniken Hauglie, to highlight this issue. She has also been a driver to bring about the amendment of the law that we are adopting today. The legal text to put this provision in place could have been promoted already in the context of the 2011 State Budget, but then State Secretary Henriette Westhrin stated on 19 May 2011 to TV 2 that the draft law was subject to financial constraints. For the Right, the consideration of children is crucial when children’s human rights are violated. I am therefore pleased that today's government is following up with this bill on the Right's proposal to protect children who are at risk of trafficking in human beings. The safety of these children depends on close cooperation between police, child protection, foreign agencies and other relief services. Many of the requests to the Children’s Ombudsman for trafficking in human beings are due to the fact that cooperation between the various public authorities is not working well enough. In order to protect children, it is therefore important to strengthen competence and cooperation across the boundaries of these cases. I am therefore pleased that we have a Minister for Children who is concerned with cross-border cooperation; it is crucial in this field as well. Children who are being traded on human beings do not have anyone else standing up for them. Therefore, the public has a special responsibility to provide them with the care they need in a safe and sound manner. Then it is also essential that the authorities work actively to clarify the issue of trafficking in human beings and that they clarify the child’s situation as long as the placement lasts, so that we can find a solution to take care of these children. It is with some concern Right-wing reports that the government is opposed to the Riksadvokat's recommendations on the duration of the emergency decision. The right is concerned with ensuring the legal certainty of children. When the government will now impose shorter deadlines than the Riksadvokat recommends, children who are victims of trafficking in human beings may lose protection from the backmen — if the police are unable to deal with the matter within two weeks. Although the government chooses to ignore the Riksadvokat's objections, I have confidence and confidence that this will be adequately preserved. We in the Right assume that the government with this also signals that they want to strengthen the police, so that the police have the opportunity to handle this in a good way, as the Right has requested for a long time. It is a serious intervention to have to go to the forced placement of children. However, the right considers that this amendment is necessary to protect children from being exploited for trafficking in human beings and to ensure that these children are properly cared for and followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e429	Trafficking in human beings is the slavery of our time. We find trafficking in human beings in different social areas: we see it in the prostitution market, we see it in begging, we can even find abuse in the adoption institute, trade in kids in adoption, and we see it in other areas. This challenges us to focus on all the relevant areas — be aware of the problem, monitor and identify it, and develop the tools that we as a society need to have to fight what is our time fighting slavery. Since the Bondevik government in 2003, the first action plan against trafficking in human beings, we have gradually developed the tools, tools and attention in the various areas that are needed to combat the phenomenon. That's why it's good that today there's a broad consensus about introducing the tool we're getting today: a law enforcement system that gives us increased opportunities to reveal trafficking in human beings and take care of the kids who are victims of it. In the light of the consensus of the Committee and what has been said, I do not feel much need to elaborate on this, except to say that I hope the Council of State will note the signals that come up related to the need for even better cooperation between all the public authorities involved, and not least the protection of children and the police, and that the Council of State is making the effort to achieve that cooperation as well as possible. Then I would also like to mention that the consideration of this matter coincides with a proposal that the Stortinget will be considering later today, namely a proposal from the Christian People's Party which has been discussed in the Judicial Committee, to introduce an anti-slavery day in Norway. This has been adopted by Parliament in the United Kingdom. Now the United Kingdom has a completely different history of slavery than Norway has, but the reality today is that this involves all countries around the world. Regardless of our history, everyone is involved through the markets in which human trafficking takes place. It should challenge us all, not just to adopt legal devices, but to look with light and light for the young people who are the victims, the people who are the victims, how we can identify the problems, and how we can fight them – both by the attention of individuals and as authorities, by developing tools and laws and strengthening the agencies that are to run the active fight in everyday life. The fight against slavery is not over. It's happening most today. We must be inspired by those who have fought important battles before and won important victories in that area, and continue the fight for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e444	The current legislative proposal concerns new provisions of the Child Protection Act on temporary placement in the institution of children exposed to trafficking in human beings. Children exposed to trafficking are a highly vulnerable and vulnerable group and the purpose of the new provisions is to meet their immediate need for protection and care. Trafficking in human beings with children is a very serious form of crime that violates the child’s fundamental human rights. We are therefore obliged to do what is necessary to protect the children from being subjected to this type of infringement. The background to the proposal under consideration today is the recognition that the provisions of today’s Children’s Protection Act are not adapted to trafficking in human beings, neither as regards conditions of placement, nor the measures that can be taken to ensure that children are adequately provided for and appropriate protective measures. I would like to use the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. I am pleased that a joint committee agrees that there is a need for new and adapted provisions of the Child Protection Act and that the proposals will strengthen the protection of children from being exposed to trafficking in human beings. In order to protect children from being exploited for trafficking in human beings, the proposal opens the way for children to be temporarily placed in an institution without their consent. Such provisions shall at the same time allow for the implementation of comprehensive and in-depth safeguards restricting the freedom of movement and communication of children. The preparation of the proposal therefore places a great deal of emphasis on ensuring the legal certainty of children. Among other things, accommodation can only take place if there is a nearby and serious danger of trafficking in human beings and if accommodation is necessary to protect the child. It also requires that the child be unable to be assisted by less interventional measures and that the overall location should also be in the best interests of the child. It is also clarified that the institution in which the child is to be placed, professionally and materially, must be able to care for the child’s need for protection and care. It is therefore necessary for institutions to have staff and professional competence appropriate to meet the specific needs of these children. The proposal requires that the question of location be regularly examined by the board of directors and that the decision of the board of directors be subject to review by the courts. The position shall be based initially on the police threat assessment. Close and active cooperation between child protection and the police is therefore necessary. This also applies before and throughout the siting period. Foreign agencies also have an important role to play in protecting children. As the new Minister for Child Protection, I am of course pleased that we are now putting in place provisions of the Child Protection Act that can improve the protection of this highly vulnerable group of children. At the same time, I must stress that there are dilemmas associated with this. It's not a simple matter. Legal certainty is not an easy matter either. There are balances here -- you can actually argue for legal certainty on both sides. We have fallen down on the solution we have, and I see that it is a great support for it. Finally, I could imagine commenting on a few things that have come up in the debate. First, to the representative Solvency Horne, who was involved in this with the use of institutions – that there is a requirement for us to use institutions rather than other measures. The background to this is that placement involves extensive and interventional measures that impose additional demands on the professional content, and when we do such an intervention in the freedom of movement of children, we also have a great responsibility to safeguard the rights of children. Then we have a law on the rights of the institutions, and it's also about the issue of the supervisory burden. Then it's simply the legal certainty that makes us get on with this solution. We believe that foster homes are not suitable in this particular context. So was the representative Horne, in addition to the representative of Hofstad Helleland, concerned himself with the issue of transnational cooperation. It's quite right, as Hofstad Helleland said, that I'm very concerned about the cross-border cooperation. We will update a circular on trafficking in human beings, and the issue of cooperation between the authorities concerned will also be addressed. It is clear that it is absolutely essential that the different agencies do the job they are going to do, and that they cooperate well across, so that we can make the best possible effort for a group of children who are particularly vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e470	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e473	I allow myself to intervene in the trafficking of human beings that affects children, and the connection it has to other illegal and immoral activities. I would like to refer to a report from ECPAT which clearly highlights the internal link between begging, trafficking in human beings affecting minors and other organised crime. I could imagine asking if the Council of State is familiar with the international reports that link such unfortunate events – to put it mildly – and whether she has any thoughts of investigating this more closely, to the extent that this has topicality in our Norwegian community, and to the extent that it may characterize some of our metropolitan centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e480	It is possible that the representative Tetzschner now intended to take a line. There is no reply to this article. But the representative asked for the floor on the list of speakers. That's the full occasion, and he's had it. He could even have talked for up to 3 minutes. Now the President sees that Councillor Thorkildsen has asked for the floor. She gets the word for an article, limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e487	You're polite and you have to answer the challenges you're facing. This is an interesting challenge. I don't know the assessments that ECPAT has made, but I'm going to get involved in that as soon as possible. What I know is that researchers who have looked at relations here in Norway have not found this context for Norwegian relations. It is possible that there are different assessments from different researchers and different organisations. I'm not familiar with that, but there's something I'm going to look for information about. But I understand, of course, where the representative Tetzschner wants to be, and that's for the discussion on whether or not to ban begging, I think, since it's been up as a hot topic lately, in the wake of the Right National Meeting. I'm not going to prejudge that discussion. It will go to all parties, I believe, also here in the Grand Duchy, and not least in the committee that is now going to deal with the matter, namely the Committee on Justice. So I think I'm going to leave it alone and say that there are different assessments associated with this. There may be different realities, depending on whether we look at the United Kingdom, for example, or whether we look at Norway. Just as it was also pointed out by the representative, Håbrek, earlier today, on this issue of introducing a separate anti-slavery day, it is of course a different context in the United Kingdom than what we have in Norway. But there is no doubt that with globalisation and with freer crossing of borders there is also a great deal of crime, and not least organised crime. Part of that crime affects children. It always hits the most vulnerable, always the poorest groups the most, and it hits women differently from it hits men. I am concerned that we should have effective means of combating organised crime – just like the Minister of Justice, who is also sitting here – and I am concerned that we should have the best possible measures to protect vulnerable groups, and not least to protect the children. If the ban is the way to go in an issue of begging, I will leave it to others to consider provisionally, but I can rather get back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e499	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e513	This concerns liability of carriers in the event of accidents involving the carriage of passengers by sea. It is an international convention, based on the so-called Athens Regulation, such as: points to a liability of the carriers of up to 250000 SDRs per passenger. SDR is a generic currency used by the International Monetary Fund to compare currencies. This is equivalent to 2 million. kr. For a maritime nation like Norway, it is important that we have equal rules in the industry. It is important to stress that Norway is a driver for the uniform and international practice of legislation. This case merges into that picture. It requires some changes in the law that lie in the matter. I can state that it is a unanimous judicial committee that supports the amendments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence also does the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e522	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committees, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 5 and 6 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e549	I might just open up saying that in the case of case no. 6, there will be no posts – it is also a unanimous municipal and management committee. In the case of case No. 5, of course, there is an overall committee that sees that it is quite right – and of course absolutely necessary – with supplementary appropriations for different parts of the justice sector after 22 July. I also allow myself to say that the result we see through the efforts that have been made – and that we have a worthy and good process in the implementation of a very challenging trial. One can imagine the situation for the different parts of the justice sector if additional resources had not been provided, for some parts of the justice sector already have – and have had – major challenges. That is why it is quite clear that an overall committee considers this to be absolutely necessary. As rapporteur of the case, I had an assessment of whether 100 pst have been made. in relation to the forecast of the amount of the appropriation of NOK 97 700 000 and, where appropriate, in order to ensure that new rounds would come about, an assessment of whether we would make an estimate. This left the case rapporteur, but I would nevertheless urge the Minister of Justice: if you see that there is still some resources available here in parts of the justice sector due to this case and the July 22 case, I would ask the Minister of Justice to use the opportunity in the revised budget to provide updates and to request additional appropriations. No more is it to say about this matter, and I just want to recommend the unanimous recommendation from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e562	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e576	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. The President will propose that there be no change of line. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e585	I was about to say, hey again! Today we are effective. The proposal has a very important message. I noted that there was a debate earlier today on a proposal from the Family and Culture Committee on better protection of children exposed to trafficking in human beings – or slavery, which may be a more striking word, and which the Justice Committee uses in its proposal. There are thousands of people, including thousands of children, who are now exposed to human trafficking, slavery of different kinds. This problem seems to be growing more and more as the boundaries are being built down somewhat. And more and more countries are experiencing social and economic unrest, so this will be a major challenge in the future. However, the Committee is not quite sure whether setting up an anti-slavery day in Norway is a proper remedy for preventing and combating such developments. The Judicial Committee has been more concerned that this is so serious that it requires daily efforts in all possible ways. To this end, the Committee proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol, and that emphasis be placed on making an overall, cross-political effort to combat slavery and trafficking in human beings. I would like to refer again to the attitude of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture regarding Document No. 8:157 for 2010–2011, where a number of actions can be implemented and strengthened to address this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e598	It is positive that this proposal for a representative addresses the issue of creating an anti-slavery day of its own. Of course, we are all busy fighting all the challenges of trafficking in human beings, both nationally and internationally. These are questions that are constantly being discussed in this room. It is also an ongoing theme in the international organisation I represent, namely the OSCE, and it is also a theme in other international forums. Now the government has created its own action plan against trafficking in human beings. This is an important plan that is valid for the period 2011–2014 and contains 35 good and important measures. Information campaigns and skills development are important measures against trafficking in human beings. One of the measures in the Government's action plan is precisely this. Norway is a leading country in this work, and Norway should of course continue to be so in the future. I refer to the Minister of Justice in his letter to the Committee saying that she has not yet concluded on the issue of creating an anti-slavery day. But she points out that it can be one of the contributions to the fight against trafficking in human beings. The Advocate General has made his views known to the Committee on the matter, where a Committee of Consolation proposes that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. That means that we do not reject the proposal, but that it may be a proposal that has its own means. But from the Labour Party's side, we will first clarify the assessment to be made in the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e615	Many are of the opinion that slavery was abolished by Lincoln at the end of the 1800s, and that slavery is now just a term for a pamphlet in world history. We look back in history and ask the question, how could they let that happen? How could they see that people were being oppressed, treated like animals, sold on the market? But as all of us in this room know, slavery was not abolished in the 1800s. We know that not only does slavery exist, but even slavery is even more widespread and brutal today. The finger points back at us, and we have to ask ourselves the question, how can we let that happen? The biggest obstacle in the fight against modern slavery is people's attitudes. That is why the Christian People's Party, through this proposal, has called for more attention to be paid to modern slavery and for the level of knowledge to be raised. If you look at the United States, one third of modern slavery is revealed by ordinary citizens. In order for ordinary citizens to be able to help, a knowledge and information gap is needed. The British introduced their own anti-slavery day in 2010 to focus on and raise awareness that everyone else in the United Kingdom and the world is trapped in modern slavery will get the rightful focus they deserve. In order to demonstrate the need for many individuals and organisations to engage in the work of the change, an anti-slavery day was introduced in England. The Christian People’s Party wants Norway to introduce an antislavery day. I would like to refer to the reason why this has not been implemented in the committee, as stated in the vote. The Committee writes: ‘The Committee agrees with the proposers that an anti-slavery day alone will not solve the problem. Furthermore, the Committee considers that such a day may remove the attention from the work that needs to be done every day by relevant actors in order to prevent trafficking in human beings. Work must be done from day to day and in this context, a single day of marking may work against its purpose.» It is worth noting that this reason was given two weeks before 1 May and a little over a month after 8 March. The Christian People's Party strongly disagrees that marking days remove the attention from the work done by promoting the matters represented by these marking days. On the contrary, the Christian People's Party believes that such days contribute to both increasing attention around the matter and giving a boost to work, which in this case is done to counter modern slavery. This wording in the vote, supported by all parties in the committee, makes me wonder whether it is actually such that marking days no longer have any meaning for parties other than the Christian People's Party. The fight against trafficking in human beings is about the fight for freedom, independence, equality and human dignity. If the whole world's population shares the same basic belief that all humans have the same infinite value and that all humans are inviolable, human trafficking could be abolished. It's a goal it's hard to achieve, but the goal of a world free of slavery should be our clear vision. Increased attention to this huge social problem should be one of the means to achieve this objective. Together, we should mark the work of a slave-free world, where all people share the most important rights, namely freedom, independence and dignity. I don't understand that a day of selection is going to take the focus away from this perspective. I address the proposal that is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e645	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e648	The government will combat all forms of trafficking in human beings, nationally and internationally. A detailed strategy in this area has been developed in the Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings for the years 2011 to 2014, which was presented in December 2010. The Ministry of Justice’s websites have recently published a status report on the implementation of the action plan. There is an important day-to-day effort to identify and assist victims of trafficking in human beings. This is done under the auspices of special projects and by different authorities and bodies. A central cooperation structure is made up of the Coordination Unit for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings, which brings together agencies and organisations in the field at permanent cooperation meetings. There is an extensive exchange of information and clarification of legislation and practices. The proposers claim: ‘The volume of trafficking in human beings is increasing and few of the victims receive the help they need.’ I don't think this is a good description of the situation. We do not know the actual spread of trafficking in human beings in Norway. What is undisputed is that we must be on guard against the spread of human trafficking and slave-like employment in our society. This is the background to the preventive action plan. Furthermore, it is clear that many victims are currently being offered extensive assistance, and that in practice considerable efforts are being made to strengthen the situation of those who have been exploited. We should take this with us in our assessments of what further measures should be taken. The introduction of an anti-slavery day is initially an exciting proposal and would be in line with decisions in some EU countries. However, such a day must bring us to work and thus fill a clear need. The Ministry of Justice has asked the Coordination Unit for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings to discuss whether Norway should introduce a fixed day of marking against trafficking in human beings. There was no immediate response to introduce such a day. Questions were raised about what resources should be allocated to a day of selection, balanced against other needs. I therefore find so much reason to hesitate to support the proposal now, but will consider it in the context of the development of a possible new action plan against trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e668	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e671	It is difficult for many to believe it, but there are examples within this nation's borders that both border upon and can be described as human trafficking and slavery. Au pairs are subjected to abuse, Filipino nurses are awarded contracts comparable to slave contracts, legal proceedings are in progress for children exposed to forced labour and forced marriage. That is why the Christian People's Party has called for Norway to have a goal of becoming the world's first slave-free country. Slavery is banned throughout the world, yet some 27 million people live as slaves. Today, human trafficking and slavery are more brutal, more widespread, but less visible. Children, women and men are threatened to do work and services using violence, threats and other psychological terror and power. People are treated as goods purchased and sold for work. There are many examples. Children are used as child soldiers in Uganda. Others are held as sex slaves in Cambodia. Many people live in forced labor, either as prostitutes or as domestic slaves. We know that women, young people and minorities are particularly vulnerable and exploited for forced labour, prostitution, begging and crime — and so is Norway. One of the main obstacles to a slave-free world is the lack of consciousness. There is ignorance of slavery in our own backyards, which allows the existence of slavery. When awareness and knowledge are disseminated, and when individual cases are revealed in the public, the objective of a slave-free world can be achieved. Then freedom for all can be guaranteed. Slavery of our time can and must be put even higher on the agenda in Norway. That's why it's amazing that Stortinget doesn't stand behind an anti-slavery day, like that. is in the United Kingdom. When the reason is so weak, it's even harder to understand the resistance. Such a day would have shown that we are united in raising awareness and knowledge of modern slavery, so that we can achieve the goal of a slave-free Norway. The Council of State stated in its statement that we do not know anything about the extent of slavery in Norway and elsewhere. That's why the Christian People's Party believes it's important to have such a day, where one can put this on the agenda and get a discussion. It had served Norway, made the population aware and helped the victims. Most of the struggle is about raising attitudes where the infinite value and inviolability of humans become carriers in the work of a slave-free Norway and a slave-free world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e682	It was the Minister of Justice's answer that made me take the floor again. On 11 October 2011, the Stortinget conducted a thorough and comprehensive debate on trafficking in human beings. The debate showed a broad consensus that one should use the term ‘slavery’ about the existing trafficking in human beings. The current Minister of Justice Knut Storberget contributed with good and clear posts at the time and stood behind the goal of a slave-free Norway. The Council of State also took a positive view of the new measures mentioned in the debate, including: the idea of introducing an anti-slavery day also in Norway. Minister of Justice Knut Storberget said: ‘As regards the issue of introducing an anti-slavery day, the British have done so. We see that 18 October has become a day of marked resistance to trafficking in human beings in the EU. I think it is quite natural that we also, on the Norwegian side, consider the question of joining in the work that is taking place in particular in the EU and use it on 18 October. That's why I want to address the question of whether we're going to use that day for such a marking, with the coordination unit that I mentioned in my main post – not least to get feedback and input about how we're going to use such a day. I think it could be important to get serious and to mobilize." That is what the then Minister of Justice Knut Storberget said in the important debate in 2011. In the light of this, I would say that I find it strange that the current Minister of Justice is reluctant to make such a proposal, but I still interpret the answer to the point that the Minister of Justice will at least consider it, in view of new measures, and that she can look at it with just as positive eyes as the former Minister of Justice did when we debated this in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e694	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e708	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e717	Unfortunately, children and young people in parts of the country, especially in large cities, are exposed to drug users as part of their growing-up environment. The long-term aim is to provide comprehensive sales activities outside schools, shopping centres, T-Bahn stations, city centres — all places where young people gather and move — and to also seek to recruit sellers who can operate, among others. into the school environment. This concerns parents, children and young people who are under pressure, and concerns the police and everyone responsible for child-growth conditions. It is essential to prevent the vulnerability of young people, at this vulnerable age, from being exploited by cynical drug addicts, drug criminals. This is why it is a high priority for the police — a task defined by us, political authorities, both local and central — to prevent drug use among young people, to cooperate with schools, recreational clubs, non-governmental organisations and all who can contribute to it. Schools are, of course, the most important prevention arena, where all children and young people are reached and where good contact with their parents can also be made. This is why prevention cooperation with schools is particularly crucial. The schools and the school owners, i.e. the municipalities, have developed cooperation with the police in this respect in different parts of the country, inter alia. in Oslo, where prevention visits have been one of the interventions. The aim has been to build clear attitudes among young people, to say no, to inform young people about the seriousness of drug use, to see how the police work, how serious this is, how it works, how good the dogs are, and so on. At all events, it has been intended to equip young people to meet the cynical drug addicts with a ‘no’. We can't protect them from bumping into these in different environments, and then it's vital that the youth is equipped to meet them. These visits depend on the permission and cooperation of the school owners and also on strict legal certainty for students, which should, of course, be in line with the legal certainty of the rest of the population. When the Judicial Committee invited the case to be heard on 6 March, all the participants attending the hearing were positive for preventive visits. What was further elaborated there was, in particular, to draw a clear distinction between preventive visits and what is being investigated, or raids, against individuals, based on the strict legal requirements in force regarding suspects. There have been cases where the police have taken action in schools, based on the provisions of the law on various grounds of suspicion, but this is something quite different from the case of preventive visits. This must not be confused and done in the same operation, which the police also underline. There have been cases — a few years ago — where doubts have been raised as to whether this distinction was clear enough. This is why both the National Attorney and the police have made this thoroughly clear in guidelines, at the hearing and in counsellors, etc., and among others. elaborated police lawyers in this in a very precise way during the hearing. From this point of view, I would like to suggest – as is also apparent from the position of the Committee on Justice, as demonstrated by the positive letters from the Council of State to the Committee on this subject and these preventive visits, as set out in the text of the rapporteurs – and hope that, to further clarify that there will be a clear distinction between preventive visits and searches and raids aimed at individuals, we will accept the adoption of a supplement, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal that I want to deliver reads: ‘In the implementation of prevention measures using drug dogs, good information and dialogue must be provided to ensure that prevention visits are carried out within the rules applicable to them, and are strictly separated from the screening of pupils and their assets where there are grounds for suspicion by law. It is assumed that the same legal certainty applies to students as to all others.» Since there have been some questions raised about this, I think it is useful that we adopt this proposal, no. 3rd@item: inlistbox There has also been a proposal from the Left today that underlines the same that this should not be anti-personal drug action. That is the reason, so that the proposal thus opens the doors. The positive variant is the one that I'm reading. But I also believe that we should consider the Left's proposal, just that we have with us that there is a reason that these should not be privacy-invasive actions. I hope we can do a good job on drugs in schools, all of which are agreed on, without misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e744	The President then sees the referenced proposal as a new proposal from all parties in the committee, or from the representative of Bohemia?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e747	I've been talking to someone else in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e752	Then we're going to clarify on behalf of them. In any case, the proposal is put forward by the representative, Mr Bøhler, who is the rapporteur on the matter, and will be distributed to the representatives' seats in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e755	It is not so often that we are able to reach a unanimous committee on a proposal for a representative. But I have the impression that the Justice Committee is particularly successful in this area, and that is very good. The proposal itself is based on a pilot scheme in Oslo School, which now calls for this scheme to be extended to the rest of the country. There are several ways of combating drug use among young people. However, what is important in this case is to clarify the difference between the prevention and general investigation of any suspicion of drug use or sale in school. The representative of Bøhler also stated that this is the main area for us – to make that difference visible. Today, police have the opportunity within today’s legislation to implement prevention measures against drugs, including at school. Today, all schools have a regulation where drug use and storage are described as prohibited. The criticisms of the proposals will claim that a private intervention is being taken by the students, a view the Progress Party does not stand in the way, as the school is part of the public space and is therefore subject to legislation other than its own home. Unfortunately, the schoolyard has become a potential area for drug trafficking. Being able to carry out preventive checks will increase the stress factor of those who store, sell or buy drugs. But it is important to take into account that neither the police, nor the principals nor anyone else may violate students' rights or students' legal certainty. It is important that service staff and dogs to carry out the efforts have good training and a strategy to communicate with local police officers, schools and students as part of their efforts. This is probably a bit of what the representative of Bohemia mentioned in his proposal, with information and close communication. Through the TNS Gallup, the National Association Against Substance Abuse conducted a survey of 400 young people aged 15–21 in the autumn of 2005. 16 pst. Of these, one or more have tried drugs, mainly cannabis or herbal cannabis. 9 pst. Among young people, it is reported that it is possible to buy drugs in or around school. Of those who have tried drugs, a total of 22 are reported. that the purchase has been made at the school, while 15 p.m. purchased outside or near the area of the school. The largest sale is right outside the school yard, but the sale is also made to a large extent in the hallways and in the toilets. These figures should be a reflection for all of us, and it is not without reason that the Committee is unanimous in its proposals. We have, and should have, zero tolerance for drug use in schools. Our schools will be a drug-free zone. We're going to be able to send our kids to school without fear of being dragged into a criminal environment. With regard to point II of the Committee's proposal for a decision, this proposal has been the focus of the Progress Party on a number of occasions. On a general basis, we believe that much more resources need to be allocated to the training of dogs for police and customs purposes. In criminal care too, we see a great need for drug dogs for use in the fight against drugs within the walls. We in the Progress Party have put forward proposals for more money to the police on a general basis and are concerned about the possibility of getting more dogs into service, if that means that the resources for this need to be taken into account within the existing framework. If so, these decisions will only be a game for the gallery. We support Mr Bøhler's proposal, the proposal that was promoted from the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e768	The right and the rest of the Storting agree that we want drug-free schools, and I think that the broad consensus on this proposal shows that we are. Parents experience that children and young people are staring at the opposite of what we want. To combat drug abuse among young people, we need to use a wide range of instruments. Many people are fleeing to Norway, but very many young people are using drugs to escape — at least mentally — from the same country that many people want to go to. Then we can ask ourselves the question: What is the reason that so many young people choose to fill their lives with drugs and alcohol so as not to relate to the world they are part of? Good SLT cooperation, school with less absenteeism, better mental assistance for young people who are struggling with mental problems, eating disorders and abuse, are also part of this picture. That is why the Right will support the Left's proposal No. 2, on health sisters. In Akershu County, a health - care system has been established for each high school. This is an example of a good response that can build on the safety of some young people who need greater security in order to say no to drugs. The proposal today is nothing seductive, sedentary, but it is a small, but important piece together with everything else. Some counter-representations have come against the unanimous position of the Judicial Committee. Some have been good, others have not been so good. All along, I've seen that the motive of the Justice Committee is to ensure a consistent practice across the country. Because there are several states and police districts that have turned, to say the same, on exactly the same thing, but that are uncertain where the boundaries go for what they can do in terms of the use of drug dogs in school. That's why the Right, like the rest of the Committee, is concerned that this is happening in a proper and reassuring way, and that you don't experience the individual episodes, such as, for example, The student organisation has pointed out, has done so before. We need to ensure that the measure is continued and that no more examples of this type are given. In the public debate, this has seemed to be something completely new, and that we are about to introduce police substitutes. This is the very opposite – this is a purely preventive measure, such as the use of drugs. The representative of Bohemia was at. The concepts of ‘razzia’ and ‘search’, etc., which have been used, are not comprehensive, but of course create headlines, and it creates a signified picture of what the Justice Committee actually wants. The proposal of the representative, Mr Bøhler, who was promoted from the Chair, will be supported by the Right, as it clarifies the whole intention and the whole purpose of the vote and the proposal that has been promoted by the Right in its time, and on which there is broad agreement. In conclusion, I think that there is reason to remember that although in the public debate there has been an impression that very many people think this is quite horrible measures, all of which are opposed, I think it is a very large majority of Norwegian parents, a large majority of Norwegian school leaders, a large number of students, all of whom do not agree, but several of the students want this in their respective county councils – and a good number of students who do not want the school to be a free area for the use or marketing of drugs. So the Right supports the Left's proposal No. 2, the representative, Mr Bøhler’s proposal, presented from the Chair and the position, and hopes that we can continue a small but important piece in the prevention of drug work among young people in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e783	In this case, I would say four things. Firstly, as a society, we must be concerned that Norwegian youth is not recruited into what we can call a hell's life for the individual and for his or her close family, with the consequences it brings to society. Therefore, we need to combat the introduction and trafficking of drugs in Norway. At the same time, we must contribute to helping poor people in the countries where drugs, opiates, are grown, to help grow something else, positively, instead of opiates. Secondly, society needs to do what it can with regard to mind-building. Here we adults have to go in front of us as good examples for the growing family. Thirdly, in the fight against drugs, as in all other cases, the integrity, privacy and legal certainty of individuals must be safeguarded, in line with our legal principles. This means that the police have to be extremely careful about how they do their preventive work. Fourthly, the students are, and must be, the police chief ally here. In order to involve students as their allies, they must be treated as allies and not suspects or criminals in the first place. This can be done by giving students greater involvement in this matter. We in the SV therefore believe that the Left's proposal No. 1 is a good proposal and it will receive SV's support. Furthermore, SV believes that the school, in consultation with the local pupil council, should have a decisive influence on whether the police should come, how the application should be carried out and where the application should be carried out. Finally, I must admit that in this case we should have consulted both the Ministry of Knowledge and the Education Committee here in the house. There's a problem with this case. Therefore, I am not sure whether the last words in this case have been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e804	For the sake of order only: would the representative Akhtar Chaudhry wish to give his support to the Left's proposal No. 1 or 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e807	Proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e813	Then it's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e816	Too many young people are lured, tempted, and tricked to try drugs. Unfortunately, it is sometimes the beginning of a long-term or lifelong drug addiction that destroys health and quality of life. Some never manage to recover from drug dependence and do not get into work. This is a tragedy for themselves, but also for their closest. The fight against drug abuse is heavy. This is why it is so important to try to prevent problems for young people. It can be done on many fronts. The police's work directed towards the schools is a sample of something that actually works. There are alarming numbers of people who buy drugs at or near the schools, as the representative Michaelsen was in. In the right-wing representative’s proposal, the desire to ensure that police can take preventive action with drug dogs is also expressed in schools. This is already possible today and will be carried out in line with the guidelines of the National Attorney. It is important to point out that such prevention activities involving the use of drug dogs in schools must follow clear and sensible guidelines that take care of their students and privacy. It is therefore good that clear guidelines have been developed. It is here that I think one can at least wonder how many additional proposals one needs to adopt, when it is well clarified in the text of the Committee – and also in the text presented by the Labour Party. Prevention of the use of drug dogs has been achieved through cooperation between the police and the schools, which also involve parents and pupil councils. It is important to distinguish between this preventive system and research. The latter occurs by a reasoned suspicion of drug crime, such as drug abuse. Narcotics can be carried out. A joint committee agrees that this preventive action is one of many measures that can have a good effect – and both the case-speaker and other speakers have done well for it, so I will close now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e834	‘Children and young people should be able to grow up in drug-free settings. Schools shall be drug-free zones.’ I have initially chosen to quote the verbatim from the representative proposal, because this is a very important objective to have as a background when debating the issue we are dealing with here – drug dogs in school as one of the means to achieve these objectives. Are drug dogs the right tool? The Christian People's Party believes yes – used properly can be a good and effective tool, but even more important is the relationship between police and youth. The Christian People's Party believes that good prevention is instrument no. 1) that the police are constructively present in youth settings, are familiar with developments and current trends, and the fact that young people experience the police as positive contributors to good and healthy youth settings is essential. In particular, young people need to understand and feel that the police are there to protect — not threaten. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal put forward by the representative of Bohemia. We see and feel that it reflects our attitude and our desire for good information and prevention. We don't have any representatives in the committee, and questions were asked about whether we're standing behind, and the Christian People's Party wants to signal this. The Christian People's Party has noticed the recordings of the Student Organization, and we have also noticed the support of the Parental Committee. Recordings are important for further integration in the process, not least in the implementation of the scheme. We want and respect that school is the job of youth. There they will experience that they are safe, and that they will be able to do their job without unnecessary disturbance and unnecessary intervention from outside authorities. Nevertheless, we believe that unexpected school visits will be necessary to work towards the goal of drugfree schools. It is therefore important that there are good tools for the police to act on visits to schools, such as: the counsellor ‘Drug dog in schools’ shows. Not least, this is important when the police are dealing with drug dogs — it is a situation that can be threatening and invading in the private lives of individuals. We need to be sure that the police are wise and careful. None — including children and young people — are to be treated as suspects during such random studies. I finally want to challenge the Council of State whether she can already say something here today about how she regards the implementation of the decisions we are making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e853	Drug use is devastating for individuals, and it is a goal that the school should be absolutely drug-free. School must be a learning arena, and drugs do not belong at school. We agree on that. Like a joint committee, the Left is concerned with effective prevention both in terms of drug use and trafficking at school. It is therefore important that the response to drugs is targeted and that it takes place at an early stage. The left has two proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber today. We will vote on the proposals in the vote if our proposals are implemented. I'm glad of SV's unambiguous support so far. To be honest, I am somewhat uncertain about what is meant by ‘implementing prevention measures with the use of drug dogs, including in schools’. I hope the committee has not intended to carry out research in schools in the sense of the Criminal Procedures Act. In principle, we believe that prevention measures need to be better addressed. That is why I am also pleased that some parties here – I believe in the right – support our proposal on prevention. The proposal, as it sounds now, we think is very problematic. The left has therefore presented a proposal today to obtain the written consent of students before carrying out anti-personal drug activities at schools. I hope that we get a pass for – finally – here today. I think most people think it's a matter of course in a workplace. In fact, I believe that very few people think it is entirely right to let in drug dogs unannounced without written consent at their place of work – quite arbitrarily. I also believe that this means that children should receive written consent from their parents. That's an important prerequisite for the left. I don't understand why the committee in this case believes that students should have weaker legal protection than people else, as we perceive the position, both in principle and in practice. I hope that with our proposals, the legal certainty of children can be strengthened and improved. The left does not want offensive forms of action to be used in school, nor do we believe that it is particularly effective. If this leads to students with drug problems leaving school, and we see that as the result of some schools, we have achieved very little – or nothing. Instead, we believe that social measures must be taken. That is why, once again, we are proposing a stepping-up plan for health care. Left-wing people tend to say that we have to fight addiction — not addicts. I think it fits well in this debate. Students with drug problems must be helped and seen – not frightened. I'm addressing the left-hand proposals that are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e870	The representative Borghild Tende has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e873	The government has a restrictive drug policy. It is important that children and young people are given the opportunity to grow up in drug-free settings. It also applies to the schools. We need to put in place a broad, preventive effort to prevent young people from testing drugs. Therefore, we need to facilitate action for those at risk of developing drug abuse. The Committee stresses that it is a shared social responsibility to do everything in its power to ensure that the school is a restless arena. In this context, there is a need for both good knowledge and awareness-raising. I am, like the Justice Committee, concerned that there is a good interaction between the police, municipal authorities, parents, volunteers and not least the students themselves. Police cooperation with other actors, including the school, is important in order to ensure the most accurate and coordinated actions possible. Police, like other actors in this field, must work in a knowledge-driven manner. This is particularly important in the work with children and young people. The Christian People's Party is asking how we will implement the decision. To that end, in recent years, there has been increasing systematic work to establish areas for cooperation and mutual strengthening of knowledge of prevention activities. In many municipalities, cooperation has been established through the system Coordination of local crime prevention measures, known as SLTs, aimed specifically at children and young people. In addition, more than 300 municipalities have set up police councils to strengthen cross-border cooperation at local level. We need to raise the awareness of students about the consequences of drug use and possession, about the risk of dependence and the health damage caused by drug use, and help each student take a stand against drugs. In young people who have tried drugs, it is important to contribute to raising awareness and behavioural change. In this context, the police are actively using the voice of concern, often with follow-up to their parents. Oslo police districts have followed up the work by getting feedback from schools on how the use of drug dogs has worked. The feedback from both school management, teachers and students is positive. The use of drug dogs in schools can be an appropriate tool when used as part of a wider prevention and awareness-raising strategy. I would like to stress that of course: the guarantees of legal certainty also apply to children and young people. This means that there is a clear distinction between, on the one hand, police presence in schools as part of their prevention and awareness-raising activities and, on the other, search. If there is a suspicion of individual students and the police aim is to clarify whether criminal offences have been committed, investigation using a police dog will be a search in the sense of the Criminal Procedures Act. The search requirements must be in place; the police must be responsible for such investigation and there must be a search decision. If a police and police dog survey is carried out as part of a preventive action, students must consent to be examined, as is also apparent from the Riksadvokat’s guidelines. Consent must be free and informed. This means that the police have to clarify that this is a preventive action where there is no concrete suspicion. The action needs to be carried out in a way that supports this – it needs to be set up so that students can really choose to participate. The police should clarify that not to participate in the action does not have negative consequences, either in the form of absence or in the form of suspicion of criminal offences. The left suggests that consent must be in writing. We have had examples in practice showing that there could be a higher awareness of the distinction between prevention and research. I think this is a good proposal, which underpins the legal certainty of each student. It is voluntary to participate in police prevention actions. This willingness and the absence of negative consequences for those who choose not to participate will, as I see it, be clarified by a requirement for written consent. This is also the way to clarify the distinction between search based on concrete suspicions and prevention actions. I have also noted the recommendation of the Justice Committee to establish several drug dogs for police use. It is the police chief’s right of governance to assess the allocation of resources internally in his police district, and also how much is going to go into prevention activities. This is also true of police districts’ need for drug dog equipare.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e895	During the examination of this proposal, a wide range of conflicting legal ideas have been presented — some very loud. There have been claims that the proposal is a violation of the EMK, it is a violation of the Children's Convention, there is a lack of privacy, and it is both raid and search. Can the Council of States, in addition to what she said, guarantee that the proposals – as they are adopted today, and will be implemented – are clear within the framework of both the conventions mentioned and the other legal frameworks mentioned, so that it can be said that the fear that some have is totally unfounded?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e902	I think it is an important debate on an important theme we have in Stortinget today. Prevention of drug use and abuse is important. It is also central to the work that the police do with the municipalities and schools, to ensure that there is a good framework around this. There is some evidence that the Advocate General has been so clear and detailed in his policy on how these actions are to be carried out. Ensuring that students know what to do and that they should also consent to be part of this type of awareness-raising and prevention action is important. I believe that with this we now have a good framework, and we will further strengthen them by also requiring the consent to be made in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e907	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e913	A good deal is being done to prevent drug abuse and crime. For example, the annual youth survey of SIRUS shows that about half of young people are trying drugs for the first time from 2000 to now, so much is going on. The reason why I take the floor in this case is that there are some uncertainties after the committee gave its opinion, which has been raised today. I believe that the law that lies at the bottom here, really not so very vague – it is more a question of the practice of understanding it. I believe that from the mid-1990s until today there have been too many examples where the police have crossed the border in relation to what is the basis of the law. I also believe that Section 195 of the Criminal Procedure Act is quite clear as to what must be at the bottom in order to be able to bring criminal proceedings against individuals. It shall also respect the intentions set out in Article 8 of the EMC. The law is initially pretty clear. The problem has been the practice of individual cases. I think you have to take seriously and clarify the points when, for example. The student organisations have doubts about what you really mean in this case. The reason why they can be that is, of course, that the police have been overstepping through history. I will not go into the individual matters much. But the important point is that when you go to a school to prevent it, you have to do just that — you have to prevent it. If you do it with a drug dog or not, I don't have any strong feelings about it. What's the point: if you use a dog and a dog, for example. Thus, according to Section 195 of the Criminal Procedures Act, there is no reason to raise a case because of this, because the intention was initially not due to a reasoned suspicion but to preventive work. I want to say this clearly from this pulpit, because this is exactly what has been the problem with some of the outrages that have happened throughout the history of the police. It is important to clarify this during this treatment. That's why I'm saying that. It is also the case that in the I of the proposal it cannot be the lead in all the counties of the country to do preventive work on drug dogs. I believe that in many contexts and in many counties — perhaps in a little more grizzly parts of the country — it can be much more sensible to use a drug dog than to use it in schools. It can be used much more targetedly. This has been unanimously set by Stortinget, for example. in the context of the police role report, where a total increase determined that police work should be problem-oriented, POP. It must not be the case that there is a requirement – even if we decide – that all police districts should work in the same way as the police do in Oslo School. Then it's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e926	In the fight against drugs, there must be a line of responsibility from home to school to the police, where the police are the last thing we do, and not the first. I think all responsible parents want their children protected from drug supply. This is an obvious requirement and an expectation that the school will be a drug-free area. I think it is a very timely initiative taken by the proposers, also on the basis of what I myself have been made aware of in relation to drug problems a few years ago linked to the major school. I also think that there may be reason to remind some people who emphasise legal certainty – which is a very profitable position – that proposers have not had ambitions to change neither the criminal law nor the police instructions. However, the area where there is concrete evidence that efforts can be improved, as well as the responsibility of schools, is to reinforce that schools are setting a framework for who is on the inside — who is on the outside — and who is on the outside and who is not going to enter and use the schools as a marketplace for drug trafficking. In this context, the introduction of drug dogs can be a great help. It will also be possible to achieve a preventive effect, for example. alerted input controls, but of course not a surprising raid – if you have no cause for suspicion. It is important to point out here that the investigation principle applies. Also for the students, it's what we in society call an innocent impression: if we don't have any special points to believe that people have done something wrong or something illegal, they're going to go to be law-abiding people. This should be particularly true of our young people. What I'm also concerned about, is that these dogs can additionally be used unannounced in the vicinity of the school, targeting people on which you have the basis to assume pubsher drugs on the students. So I'm going to draw attention to something else, which has a good internal connection with what has been highlighted by the speakers today. It is the de facto liberalisation that the Minister of Justice’s predecessors carried out, by the fact that users are no longer being charged with so-called user doses. And not enough, you don't argue it either if it's quantity in addition to your own consumption – which is then used for resale to finance your own consumption. I must therefore take into account that there is liberalisation at the other end of the system, which I have not seen that the current Council of State has called for change – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e939	It is very gratifying that an overall Judicial Committee is gathering on these important proposals and that they will also have broad political support here in the Grand Duchy later today. This is about creating attitudes and preventing drug abuse. There are many players who need to be on the road here. This is one of several actions by the Right, which we believe are important both to create the right attitudes and to prevent abuse. The municipality, the police, the individual school and, of course, the individual, the individual, the family – everyone has to contribute, and everyone has to have the opportunity to contribute. In this context, this proposal from the Right is a long line. I also welcome the clear clarification of the formal basis by the Council of State. I hear in the debate that many people want to put big questions about it. The Council of State’s response – the intervention of the Council of State – was particularly elucidating in this way. This debate must be based on facts – not on assumptions and feelings to a greater or lesser extent. To the representative of Breen, who mentioned I in the proposal: this is not meant to be an instruction on the right. On the contrary, it is on our part intended to address precisely what the representative Breen himself was very concerned about, that we point out that the legislation is in place, and that the practice of it is in line with the assumptions. That's the point from the right-hand side. With this proposal, with consideration today, and with all the other prevention measures, we are concerned that we are giving a clear signal that schools are not accepted as a place, a place, for the storage, sale or use of drugs in any way. We're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e952	As head of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I find it natural to take the floor in this debate, since we are discussing the role of the police in a day-to-day school – the school day. There can be no doubt that school and drugs do not belong together and that school and alcohol do not belong together. It is very important to prevent drug use and drug use, both drugs and other drugs, in schools, which are a very important part of all children and young people’s growing-up conditions and everyday life. The police have an important role to play here — of course — but the main task of preventing drug use in school is, of course, at other agencies. It is the school’s management, municipalities and other authorities in the municipalities that have to take the primary responsibility for ensuring a good growing-up environment through good leisure activities and activities that are of a positive nature and can replace drugs. This proposal is about the use of a police dog and its role in prevention versus its role as an investigative agent. It is very important that there are clear boundaries between this. It is good that the Storting takes this discussion and has up this matter, just to underline it. As I see it, there must be no doubt about the following: Students' legal certainty should be equal to everyone else's. There should be no special rules for schools. That is why I am very pleased that Minister of Justice Faremo has emphasised this in such a clear way, as she has now done. In addition, the use of police visits with drug dogs must be carried out in agreement with the school, with the school board, with parents and with the school owner, and this must be done in close cooperation. It does not agree with information, as some have mentioned as a concept, because information can be one-way. Informing you that you're coming, it's not enough, it has to be agreed to. The reason for this is that it's very unfortunate if there's a confrontation situation, where there's a big conflict around this particular thing, as we've seen in some places. Then there can be a rapid setback in preventing drug use in school, rather than the opposite. We need to ensure that all good forces cooperate closely on this, because there are no students — or very, very few students — who want a daily school day with alcohol and that there should be drugs there. You can't find a student board that wants to. But if the confrontation gets too strong, it can result in an unfortunate climate against preventing drugs. This is an action that must be used with caution and wisdom. Of course, police officers also need to look at resource use, whether it is wisest to put in police dogs or drug dogs, but police officers have to decide that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e967	All of us agree that the prevention of drug use and trafficking is important. But I think it's a little special that you've just seen the benefits of that scheme, and that you haven't seen any of the challenges around it. I think it's very nice that the police focus on prevention. It's a good thing to use a dog, but then I think you need to focus on common areas and areas around the school, where sales take place. I am very pleased with the proposal put forward by the representative of Bohemia, proposal No. 3, but is a little bit unsure if that's enough. It's also said here that it's enough with the guidelines we have today, and then I'm a little bit more insecure, because we know that today you're going into the classroom, and the dogs are snorting on the assets, the rants, etc., and markers. Then it does not help that the students in advance have been offered to leave the classroom, because if you leave the classroom, you have already given a signal. Now you might go out of the classroom because you're afraid of a dog, but what do all the others who are left in the classroom think? I think that's important that we take with us. I also think, what about the ones that are being marked? It may well be that there are children of addictive parents who have sat in the living room and smoked hashish the day before going to school, and it smells hashish of clothes, and you get marked. Then you say you don't have to prosecute. No, that's great, but what happens to those kids that get marked? What happens to your circle of friends? What happens when Per comes home and tells Mom that the friend Knut was marked by a police dog? What does Mother want to say? I think most of the mothers would say that maybe you shouldn't be so much with Knut. That's what I think we should think about before we do this by allowing them to enter the classrooms. Then I would like to comment that the SV's representative regretted that the other committees were not involved – I regret that too. I also think it is quite special that when you now work with a drug report in the department, which is going to the Stortinget, you choose to decide on a part of the drug policy, without taking it into account and looking at it in the drug report.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e978	Actually, I would just like to speak in connection with an explanation of vote. We also support proposal No. 2 from the left which is distributed in the hall. The representative who had the word before me was within some somewhat suspicious considerations that probably most of us have made, and therefore I have found out what the police lawyers are saying, based on the trial system that is today in Oslo School. I'm quoting from what's written here: ‘The classrooms covered are randomly selected. The student is clearly and repeatedly informed that it is entirely voluntary to participate.’» And most important is: ‘The police do not consider it suspicious that anyone leaves the classroom...’;» There's a lot of people here who've done a lot of work to prevent, to avoid getting some sort of stigmatisation. – This was just a small clarification in relation to the Legal Affairs Committee’s information.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e995	I think we have had a very good debate, because it shows that we really agree on the goal, and we almost entirely agree on the means. I just feel that there may be some uncertainty about what the instruments are, and there is still some uncertainty about the basis of the law. But it seems like we're approaching, that we agree on that as well. Then I think it's important to say that I don't think most Norwegian students have mistrusted the police. I think most people have confidence that the police will actually do them well and operate on behalf of society, not to take them, but to create the safest possible day-to-day school in collaboration with school management, municipalities and other good forces. I really think the contribution to the representative Aasen was pretty good, because that's what this is about, how we're going to make sure that the police, along with all the good helpers, can create the safest possible school day for Norwegian students. Removing the possibility of carrying out this type of prevention activity will mean that the police will have to use the other tools they have for this, research and raid. The police know that today. It is not that the police lack other tools, but they want to have this low threshold, the prevention measure, so that they do not use the more hard-handed, perhaps even more provocative, means, which they are fully authorized to use. The possibility of being in the closets, in the public room, etc., the police have very much access to. This is an opportunity to prevent, and perhaps you need to use these tools gradually so that people actually realize that there can be drug dogs in the classroom. There may be fewer people who want drugs in the classroom. And not least — those who have a drug problem have something to argue with to those who pressure them to use drugs: I can't have it with me at school, because I risk it being marked in the classroom — just as consent-based armaments in some high school are used as arguments by those who have a drug problem themselves, in order to protect themselves from the pressure of part of the drug environment. I want to end by urging the Left to look again at its proposal. If you can rephrase it, the Right is willing to look at it, so that we finally get the most unanimous enlargement possible in a matter where we, in fact, largely all, as far as I'm concerned, agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1006	It has been amazing to be allowed to be an alternate here and to participate in such an exciting, good and collusive debate on prevention. That I think has been a nice climb, I have to admit. I would also like to thank the Council of State for its answers. I feel that we are on the track and interpret this very much, and I am sure that this will be done in a good way. Now I signed before the Left signed – I felt that the matter was coming to an end – to give a clarification of vote; I would recommend the Christian People's Party Group to vote in favour of the Left's proposal, no. 2nd@item: inlistbox But now I want to wait for Left's posts. If there is a change in proposal No. One, we'll maybe also look at it. For the moment, my signal is that the Christian People's Party Group is in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1015	First of all, I am very pleased that more people have spoken positively about the Left's proposals and support them. I am also very pleased with the positive attitude of the Council of State towards proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then I have been encouraged to add a word, and then the proposal will read as follows: ‘The government asks the police to obtain written consent from students before carrying out any anti-personal drug action at schools.’ Of course, we're doing this if we can get a majority for it. The important thing is that this matter ends up happy for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1027	I put in my post, in a case where there is a lot else that gathers us, a small challenge to the Minister of Justice. What I think we can show is a lack of coherence between what we are saying here and a broad, preventive response to drugs. I believe, in all modesty, that general preventive measures, an effective criminal law enforcement system and police that does not detract from this are part of the prevention. During the time of this Minister of Justice, we experienced the de facto decriminalisation of a number of former criminal drug relations. I mentioned this saying that it is allowed to have user doses, if they are not too large. That is what is in the word ‘user’. It is even allowed to happen with doses in addition to this if it is only for sale to fund own consumption. So it's an prosecution practice that has evolved on the side of the law, and I'm not aware that the Storting has been in and liberalized this. So my little challenge, which the Council of State has overheard so far, I might have to address a little bit more directly and ask the Council of State if she is comfortable with the prosecution practices that have now been put on, which developed under her predecessor, Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1036	I just want to say that I am pleased with the adjustment of the proposal to the Left that the representative Tende mentioned. I gave a positive opinion on the intention of the proposal at the outset. I submitted a proposal that also referred to the positive, namely to stress that legal certainty for students should be the same as for everyone else, as I believe has been widely agreed here. In order to have a broad consensus – understanding of this – on Stortinget, if you have the word ‘possible’, in front of the word ‘personal protection’, we will also support the proposal. It is then stated that we should not institute that there should be privacy intervention, which could otherwise be an interpretation as the proposal was formulated. We're assuming that it's not going to be like this, and that in any action of that kind, you have to do what the proposal describes. We will vote in favour of the proposal, with the addition of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1046	I was challenged by the Right if we want to liberalize the fight against drugs. I am not aware that we have neither presented legislative proposals nor other measures that signal liberalisation. The fight against drugs is very important. Ensuring young people both drug-free and good attitudes is important, as well as, of course, addressing crime related to this. With regard to the priority of police and prosecution authorities for the most serious crime, and therefore also the fight against backers related to drug trafficking, this may also be the case. Then I am concerned about the prevention efforts that we, among other things, are taking. has discussed today, as it is important for us to do well and also strengthen. We also need to address health, social and other challenges related to drug use, which make it important for us to address it in another framework, perhaps also a broader framework than just seeing crime; helping drug users out of their abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1055	The representative André Oktay Dahl has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1058	I choose not to repeat the question put by the representative Tetzschner. I expect him to be able to do so himself in other debates – and the question remains unanswered. I just need to make a brief explanation of vote. In the context of the guidelines of the National Advocate General and the Council of State's response here today, not least what has always been the intention of the Right, we also choose to support the revised proposal from the Left. We have even received authority from the Progress Party to say that the Progress Party is also involved – and the Christian People's Party. This means that there will be a unanimous position within the framework specified by the Council of State, including: in line with the undersigned. There has been a good debate, and then the matter becomes unanimous. Then I think Norwegian school students can attend a safer school day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1067	With that, the representative André Oktay Dahl got the last word in this case. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1083	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1092	Now there was a sloppy loop, President — it has also been when it comes to preparedness in Norway. We have had long debates after 22 July and after various natural disasters. We're experiencing a society where the climate gets wilder and wetter. We experience that we are facing major and major threats, not least ‘cyber crime’. We experience that we have a situation that is far more inconspicuous than in many years. I think we're all concerned that we need to coordinate ourselves better. What we see is that we're good at organizing ourselves vertically, but not as good horizontally. We're good at taking orders from top to bottom, but to cooperate sideways we're not as good at. I think it makes sense that we're doing a lot of what we've said before. I guess there's a little bit of input into various budgetary processes in this house, that maybe we could spend the same amount of time on control activity. An average budget we spend a few months on. We're going to spend a few hours on an average check-up case. I think it might be a good idea to think that we're implementing more of what we've told us to implement before we come up with new measures, new plans. With that, I recommend the vote by the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1101	Whether the majority of the committee, as the rapporteur has explained, does not consider that there is a need to appoint a new vulnerability sample by model from the corresponding sample in 1999, we believe that this is a good thing – and I would add – also natural with commitment to society's vulnerability and preparedness by the proposers. We support the inclusion of the proposal in the Minutes, but, as the Right and the Advocate-General pointed out several times, we are more concerned with action than with getting more investigations. I mean absolutely also that we are acting in this way. We in the government parties believe that a lot has been done in recent years that fulfills much of the 1999 Vulnerability Commission's proposal. This year, several major issues are coming in turn to the Stortinget which will be central to further strengthening preparedness and social security. The representative proposal focuses in particular on telecommunications and electricity networks, and that is very important. This is also, of course, a high priority for the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the agencies underlying it, which the Council of State will probably explain in more detail later in the debate. In the big social security and preparedness message that the government will be presenting for not so long, it is obvious that telecommunications and electricity networks will be an important topic. This message will provide the Storting with a very solid and up-to-date basis for a broad and thorough treatment of preparedness and social security to meet today's and future challenges. Later this year, the government will also present its police reform, the reform of results, through a key message that also addresses new experiences and a rapidly changing society, where the threat picture and crime have changed significantly in a relatively short period of time. We're going to have high ambitions for a safer and safer Norway. The cruel events of July 22 and the experience of nature's challenges in recent years make it necessary to step up efforts and systems in several areas. Not least, we need to ensure optimal coordination of the resources we have, and must have, into the future. The setting by the Special Committee after 22 July provides a very important basis for the design of different actions and improvement points. The fact that the Ministry of Justice has now been renamed the Ministry of Justice and Defence also underlines the strengthened and even clearer national leadership role of this department in the field of social security. I look forward to good and constructive cooperation here in Stortinget on the design of the best possible national and local preparedness and safeguarding our common interests and values. Social security is demanding in our time, but here, as usual, it is best that all good forces go together. I think the work and position of the special committee after July 22nd, and the way we deal with this matter here in the Chamber, promise well in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1112	The previous speaker and the majority of the Committee are concerned about action, and it is precisely what the rapporteurs want to focus on with this well-founded proposal. Once a thorough job has been done, as was done by the Vulnerability Committee, which came about ten years ago, when some time has passed, it may be in place to re-examine matter. It's because in these years, and especially in our time, society has changed considerably in a relatively short time. We all see that in the ICT sector, where it is a continuous and tearing development. We just have to recognise that we living today live in a very vulnerable society, and we are largely based our lives on a critical infrastructure where relatively small breaks can cause great disruption in society's systems and also endanger social security. The proposal mentions the mains power grid, ICT, telecommunications services and, not least, payment systems, on which we are all so dependent. It's not many days since we saw how this created problems. Our emergency systems, air and train traffic, emergency situation communication and communication between them are also mentioned. In the proposal, the proposers point to a number of events in recent years in which these very conditions have been put to the test. There's hurricanes, there's the volcanic eruption in Iceland, and there's a break in power, telecommunications and computer networks. We have quite a number of fresh examples of how vulnerable our society is. Not least, last summer's terrorist acts show how dependent we are on the optimum functioning of these communication systems. Then it was claimed here that the government will make a lot of suggestions in the future. It is very good that the government is planning to promote many proposals to the Storting, but, with respect to reporting, in the nearly three years I have been a member of the Parliament's Judicial Committee, it is the opposition that has kept this committee working, not the government. If that changes, we want to welcome it. However, our point is that it has been a long time since the last vulnerability selection, and it is therefore time to look at this again. There can be no harm in reducing a sample given a mandate that is as current today as it was more than 10 years ago, when this work was carried out last. I refer to the proposal that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1127	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1130	One of the most central proposals for the Vulnerability Committee was the greater coordination of the security and preparedness functions of society, including the establishment of a separate Security Ministry. Such establishment was not known, and the principle of responsibility, proximity and equality, which are the fundamental principles of social security work, also gives individual enterprises a separate responsibility of preparedness. The overall responsibility for taking the initiative, acting as a driver and being a coordinator and a social security inspector has been added to the Ministry of Justice and Security through the coordination role. So the Ministry of Justice has been assigned a number of functions that, in the opinion of the Vulnerability Committee, should be assigned to a Ministry of Defence. Supporting measures for a good overall social security work is therefore one of the most important tasks I have as a Minister of Emergency Response. The Ministry of Justice's sectoral responsibility for police, fire and electricity security, dangerous substances, civil defence and the main rescue centres mean that the main weight of society's rescue resources is concentrated in one department, in line with the recommendation of the Vulnerability Committee. Security and preparedness form a major part of the Ministry of Justice’s emergency portfolio. Coordination of rescue services, major accident preparedness, fire services and civil protection has been carried out by the government, inter alia: have set up the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, which led to a wide-ranging emergency response environment including: responsibility for providing an overview of societal vulnerability challenges, cross-sectoral exercises and follow-up responsibilities for fire and electricity security and civil protection. Furthermore, the National Safety Authority has been assigned a professional reporting line to the Ministry of Justice for Civil Affairs. The Emergency Communications Directorate was established in 2007. The central crisis management was strengthened by clarifying and clarifying the responsibilities for crisis management in the Executive Ministry, strengthening crisis coordination through the establishment of the Government Crisis Council and the establishment of the Crisis Support Unit. In relation to national risk, threat and vulnerability assessments, the government has stated that increased emphasis should be placed on facilitating them. On this basis, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has developed the National Risk Assessment issued annually. The so-called NBB, the national risk picture, provides a more systematic overall overview of the societal security challenges in Norway. The NB was developed with the participation of a number of enterprises and together with the evaluations after major events form the basis for cross-sectoral exercises. Overall, the threat assessment by the PST, the National Safety Authority report on the state of safety, the threat assessments by the Intelligence Service and the national risk profile of the Directorate will provide a good picture of the challenges facing society. Int. 228 S is in the minority's proposals focusing particular attention on telecommunications and the mains network. Let me refer in this context to the following: Robustness in critical infrastructure is essential for maintaining the critical functions of society, which, in turn, meets the basic needs of society and the security of the population. The Directorate for Security and Preparedness, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and in cooperation with the Postal and Telecommunications Authority, has carried out a project assessing the vulnerability of key response actors to breaches and other errors in the electronic communications services. The report ‘Sociation’s vulnerability to the lapse of electronic communications was available on 1 March this year. The results of this work will be reflected in the Communication on social security now presented in our work. Finally, I would like to say that this year is, and will be, marked by a major effort to further develop the work of social security. We follow up on the position of the Special Committee, and the Communication on Social Security presented to the European Parliament today will present a high level of ambition for the work on social security and preparedness. Furthermore, the report on the reform of the results of the police and officers' seats will be presented, reviewing the tasks and organisation of the police. Finally, I would also like to mention that the Ministry has changed its name from 1 January of this year, which states that the Ministry will strengthen and clarify the role of the Ministry of Coordination in the field of social security and preparedness. Our coordination responsibility will also be given a clear and fully formal basis in the new coordination resolution established during this spring. This will also include the development of overall objectives and safety and preparedness requirements. Overall, I believe this shows that most of the proposals of the Vulnerability Committee have been implemented. There is a high level of activity in facilitating both good framework conditions and the practical implementation of actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1156	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1159	It sounds lenient, very nice and nice when I hear the council boasting of everything you've done, and what you're about to do. The whole point of a vulnerability selection is to think far ahead. That's what you're going to do in 2001, see what's coming in the next few years, and what's coming in good years. 2011 has certainly shown to the full that we have not taken preparedness and security seriously. That's why I think it's a pity that the Council of State in this way totally refuses to be involved in the future, in how to ensure that we have good security in our important infrastructure – both in telecommunications and in other types of preparedness. It is such that a small telephone line and what the weather is like is what determines whether half of Norwegian telecommunications users lose or still have their line. Does not the Council of State feel that it is important to look ahead and make sure that we are prepared for what may come in the future, so that we are well equipped to meet the challenges ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1166	It was Storm P. who said it's hard to predict, especially about the future. I don't ignore the fact that it might be right to set up a vulnerability committee once in the future. But we have to agree that 2011 was a special year, and that in the light of the terrorist attacks, extensive self-evaluations have been carried out. There has also been an own-initiative discussion in the Stortinget, through the Special Committee, of the challenges we are facing, the position of the Bech Gjørv Commission is awaited, and the Ministry has also been working on the social security communication for some time. That's when I sum up that I don't see reason for this proposal right now. It is important to act – I am glad that it has also been underlined by the pulpit – and we work every day to strengthen preparedness in the various areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1171	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1177	I think it's good that the Council of State says that there's now a lot going on in the department. Of course, much is happening on the basis of what happened in 2011, in many areas of this with the security and preparedness of society. But I think it's a good thing to reflect that in terms of security in telecommunications – we really saw in 2011 how important it was to have good telecommunications – the government has made sure to reduce the appropriations from 2000 to today, from 37 million. NOK 2000 to SEK 26 million. kr in 2011. When we know that there has been a certain increase in prices, a certain increase in costs, that means that the real cut has been far, far higher. We also know that there is one small cable, which you have seen pictures of – Today’s Business has shown how vulnerable you are in fact – that determines whether half of the telecommunications users have telephones or not. It's just a cable to be cut off, so half of Norway's population loses their telecommunications. It's serious. I also think it is a pity that the Council of State and the political majority of all the other parties are not involved in this, perhaps with the exception of the Christian People's Party – I am a little uncertain. I do not see that the Christian People's Party is present now, there may be several reasons for it. But at least I know that the head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Knut Arild Hareide, was out in January and said that a new vulnerability committee should be set up. Even the previous leader of the Vulnerability Committee, Kåre Willoch, says it's high time to get a new review to look forward to. The whole point is that what is happening now in terms of vulnerability and security — what is being done in the ministry, what the Council of State is committed to following up, and what is now being done to ensure the security and security of people in the important areas. The whole point of security and a vulnerability selection is about looking far ahead. What's going to happen in the future, and what are our challenges in the future? When this was happening in 2000 – and before that, when the Vulnerability Committee worked – I don’t think anyone saw how much people are using communication, and how important communication is in 2011–2012. It shows why it is so incredibly important to set up a new vulnerability committee that takes this seriously, which looks far ahead in the sphere, to ensure that we are well equipped to meet the challenges in key societal areas. I think it's really great the work that's going on right now. But I think it is sad that the majority in this room in this way reject an important job, which can secure the future and ensure that we have good preparedness many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1192	Probably the representative Hoksrud has more cable skills than at least I have, so I'm going to avoid going into the detail level and try to describe what is the unobservedness in that way. We're going to look far ahead, says Bård Hoksrud. Yes, I agree that at times we should also look far ahead, but now it is about – in a world of such change and with such a threat image – doing things quickly. We have a lot of knowledge from before, and a lot about what was the proposal of the present Vulnerability Committee is relevant. We've got a lot of animal-purchased, new experience now. Now I think one should lubricate with patience in approx. One more month, because then the big message will be available, and then one will see what the government is adding up to by concrete proposals. The Council of State has said that there will be a big message to raise the level of ambition of a safer Norway. I will also add that we do not reject the proposal – we are adding it to the Minutes. The Council of State has said that at a later stage it may be relevant — if, in addition to what is needed by action now, one is to draw up an image in a longer perspective. So that's that possibility right there. I would like to remind you that it is not the Council of State that has rejected this. It's been done by the government parties here in the staging room, together with the government comrade, if any, who sees the Progress Party, right – who doesn't think it's time to use resources on this right now either. Waiting for the message - it will be a good message. I feel sure that the message about the police reform will also be. It's part of the story that we, who are partying with the council, know a little bit about what's going on here. I even think Board Hoksrud will look brighter on it all when the message is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1203	To the representative Hagebakken: I see a great deal of light in life. It's important, I think. The whole point of and the background of the Vulnerability Selection – and I'll also underline that here – is that there's an incredible amount of positive and good happening in this area, but I think it also has to be possible to have two thoughts in my head at once. It is possible to take the urgent measures on many of the things we have now come up with, which it is important to address and address immediately, and which I also feel that the Council of State and the Department and others who work with certainty have now taken seriously. But I also think it is important to stop a little bit and think about that a short time ago the storm had "Days", and a large part of the emergency network in the East, where the storm almost passed and it was almost not there, fell out. Several hundred base stations on the new emergency network fell down. We see that the battery capacity for the safety of telecommunications is far below what we consider acceptable. One thing is that the railway stops, or that the road goes away – it can people live with a little period – but when you can't communicate with each other again, then there's really danger on the road. Then you don't get help when you might need help from everyone the most. In terms of road or rail, one can generally find other solutions, but communication – being able to get in touch with one another – may be one of the most important. When you don't get help, you don't get people who can answer at the other end, you really see how helpless you are, and how bad communication you have. The telecommunications network was several places out for many, many days, and it had enormous consequences for local communities, especially in the West where it hit really hard. As I said, I also think it is important to bear in mind that the former leader of the Vulnerability Committee, Kåre Willoch, believes that a new Vulnerability Committee should now be set up, because there has been a huge technological development in the ten to twelve years since the selection presented its position. I have also read the NOUs and the big messages that have come since then, and in many places it says that you are uncertain whether you have managed to follow up all the things that were in the report of the previous vulnerability committee. It may well be full – and 2011 also showed full – that we do not have as good preparedness and security as what we think we have, at least thought we had. This, therefore, shows that it is important to think far ahead, while taking immediate action. That's why I think it's sad that the Hagebakken, along with the rest of the majority in this room, is voting down the proposal. He says that in some time you may come back, and the council itself says that we may actually get a new vulnerability selection. But it might have to come from the government and not from another political party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1214	We all share the concern expressed by the representative Hoksrud regarding the loss of electricity and telecommunications networks in the wake of floods and hurricanes. Therefore, it may be right to state that a key word for the social security message will be that we address interdependence and measures to reduce vulnerability in critical infrastructure. DSB and the Ministry of Transport, through the Post and Telecommunications Authority, have worked well together. Postal and telecommunications supervision is an important pre-miss provider for the DSB, which has then reported to the Ministry. After all, every two years the DSB also conducts a municipal survey, where different preparedness-relevant themes are highlighted. It is important, not least on the basis of the findings of such studies, to examine whether we have taken on board how dependent we have become on communication solutions – mobile phones, the Internet and other – in relation to what we were before, and act now. There is some background for following up these issues already in the forthcoming Social Security Communication, and we will facilitate further action in its wake. We therefore follow up on the impatience we all have, linked to addressing these challenges as best and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1221	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1237	In both Soria Moria declarations, the government has laid the foundations for an active and comprehensive fight against crime. We are on our way to the goal of better prevention, response faster, clarification and rehabilitation. Crime prevention has an important place in justice policy. The criminal justice system executes the sentence that the convicted person is convicted by the courts. Most of us have an opinion about both the level of punishment and how the punishment should be curtailed. From a historical perspective, the development of criminal enforcement has been revolutionary — from gaping sticks and executions in populous squares to today’s modern criminal care where the very punishment is the detention, while at the same time the occasion is used when the punishment is being curtailed, for the change and rehabilitation of the convicted person to a life without crime. When I was elected to the Justice Committee almost three years ago, I quickly took an interest in the criminal justice system. I almost swallowed what I could get over from literature, and I've spent a lot of time visiting the criminal services department. I remember that the first book I borrowed from the library here at Stortinget was the book "This I stand for" by Inger Louise Valle. She was the State Council of the Workers' Party from 1971 to 1980 and was Minister of Justice for six of these years. In many ways, we can say that she was the mother of modern criminal justice and should have the political main responsibility for the criminal justice we have today. Of course, I also read St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08 Punishment that works — less crime — safer societies. The message is the result of an impressive work, carried out by many good forces. Special attention was paid to former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget's efforts and commitment. The final result that the red-green government presented was very well received, both professionally and politically. The strong focus on change work, rehabilitation and repatriation created high expectations for the follow-up to the message. It is now well three years since the Stortinget received the biggest message. It is this message that is the background of my interpellation today. I have, as I said, spent a lot of time visiting the criminal services department. What I have seen and heard is simply impressive. The members of staff in the criminal service and their partners do a very good job and deserve a very large reward. Today, most prisons offer education, training and various activities, prisons have health services and provide programme activities such as: irritability – to mention something. I've got several examples of how important it is with the content of the ransom. A story that made a strong impression on me, was a youth who had fallen out of high school because of intoxication. The noise and idleness, along with many other unfortunate circumstances, led him to commit crime. He got several petty sentences, and eventually it resulted in a longer prison sentence. This young man got through dedicated employees in prison the belief that he could get out of the criminal racetrack. While he was sonny, he got help with his drug problems, finished high school and took a letter in the car subject. And not enough with that, he was offered a job in the car repair shop that he had practice at during the play. A regular job meant that he could get a self-contained dwelling. Thus, the starting point for this young man was quite different from if he had only been in prison and ashamed, without offering content in the settlement. The risk of relapse to the old drug environment and the criminal track was considerably reduced through the contents of the ransom. Unfortunately, not everyone is doing as well. But the prospect of content in the ransom is much better than without it. The joint Nordic relapse study conducted in 2010, called RETUR, showed that Norway has the lowest relapse to new crime two years after the end of settlement, with 20 pst. relapse. I both hope and believe that the relatively low relapse rate shown by this study is a result of the content of the ransom. Investing in good criminal care is a good investment, not only for the convicted and their families, but also for society. There is also a lot of good victim care in a professional good criminal care. There's no contradiction whatsoever. Investing in criminal justice is simply a prevention of crime. I was recently on a visit to Trøgstad prison in Eastfold. There is a lower-security prison with 90 prisoners. It was a very interesting and instructive visit. Last year, they opened a service square with a social curator, Nav counsellor, feedback coordinator and other important actors such as conflict advice. The prison also has its own detention unit where, among other things, social outpatient clinic provides services. The prison organises the repatriation work according to its own model with an interaction forum that has a strong focus on multidisciplinary cooperation with regard to the change work of the prisoners. The contact officer's role is also strong. The goal is to get as many prisoners as possible motivated and committed to preparing the basis for a life without crime after release. The way they worked at Trøgstad prison is entirely in line with the big message Penalty that works. At Trøgstad prison I also received feedback from a lot of the other visits I have had in the criminal care department: there is a lot of good work going on in the day-to-day work. But on weekends and in the evening, manning is marginal. In that case, prison guards are largely given priority to security procedures and the necessary tasks. Most people think this is regrettable, because the prisoners often want to talk about the challenges they have in life and how they're going to get on when it gets a little bit calmer around them, i.e. in the evening and on the weekends. This is not allowed by the server because of the resource situation. There is therefore a potential for even better return work than today if the budgetary framework for ordinary activities had been greater. This, I believe, is something the government needs to bear in mind in view of the work on the state budgets ahead. Increased operational budgets for criminal justice are crime prevention activities on which society as a whole will serve. Another important point I have registered after my visit to the Criminal Service is the large, varied access to skilled prison officers. Some prisons have all prison positions occupied by prison - school officers, while other prisons have many people without any level of education. The feedback is that the lack of skilled workers affects the quality of the return work. It is important to have the right skills, including those in the criminal justice system. I am pleased that we can put criminal care on the agenda of the Stortinget through this interpellation debate. And I hope and believe in a good and constructive debate in which the Stortinget shows the willingness to contribute to the further work of implementing the intentions of the Single European Act which was discussed here in this Chamber in April 2009. Through my interpellation with the Council of State, I ask a very open question, which gives expectations of many answers. The question has already been referred, but I can repeat it: how is St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008 followed up and implemented in criminal justice and in the relevant partners? I look forward to the response of the Council of State, and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1288	First I want to thank you for the question. It gives me the opportunity to talk about something we've put a lot of commitment and work in the last three years. The main points of St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, Penalty that works, there was broad political consensus about, and I am happy to say that much has been followed up already; other areas are being worked on. Progress in the follow-up has been ensured through more than 23 working groups and projects, proceedings, investigations and information. Legislation, professional development, capacity, staff development and organisation have been pursued. It goes without saying that I – within 10 minutes – cannot report everything. I also understand the question so that the most important thing to get an answer to is the work on the return guarantee. First, however, I would like to dwell a little on the biggest challenge of criminal law in recent years, the winding-up of the payroll queue. It is absolutely central to the use of punishment as an instrument that the implementation of penalties is quick to be judged, including: to start work on repatriation to society immediately. We considered the settlement queue to be closed in 2009, when it was under 400 judges. Then we again experienced an increase in the queue, and in the summer of 2011 there were over 1,400 judges in line. However, criminal services have managed to reverse this trend, and the queue is now just below 800 judges. I will continue to give priority to this work, and the queue will have to be further reduced. In order to obtain a penalty that works, the return guarantee must be realised. The guarantee shall ensure the provision of housing, education/training, work, social services, health and drug treatment, financial advice and networks — all basic needs that need to be met in order to live a life that most of us take for granted. An important factor in realising the return guarantee is the return coordinators. The size has allocated funds to 25 repatriation coordinators, who will coordinate their own efforts with the efforts of cooperative agencies to make it one, reinforce the run for each sentence and sentence. The return coordinators shall establish cooperation agreements and routine descriptions with municipalities, county councils, health enterprises and non-profit institutions serving households. It has been working with good feedback for many years. There are today school, primary health, library and pastoral services in all prisons of a certain size. In several places the floors are collected in their own service squares in prisons. If criminal services are to be able to implement the ambitious recovery plans, it is absolutely central that work starts with a thorough monitoring of the situation of convictions. An important part of the follow-up to the notification has therefore been the establishment of a new ICT-based monitoring system. Testing of the new screening system starts during these days in Halden prison and at Østfold. The plan is for the system to be established in the rest of the country next year. For many years, capacity has been the main challenge of criminal justice. However, capacity is not just a matter of quantity – good return requires appropriate premises and a correct number of places with different settlement options in prisons and free-of-charge agencies. The central government of criminal justice is currently preparing a proposal for a capacity plan with a unit structure at national level. The plan assesses how the capacity of criminal services should be put together to meet future capacity needs and to facilitate the implementation of penalties in response to the intentions of the EEAS. It is also considered where units should be located, inter alia. the residence of the detainees and the size of the units should be in order to ensure a good level of content in the implementation of the penalties. In addition, there is an assessment of the structural status of units and how prisons should be designed to meet the requirements of modern criminal enforcement. The central administration of criminal justice aims to submit proposals for a plan to the Ministry of Justice during the first six months of this year. An investigation has also been carried out, known as KS1, of alternative concepts for prison capacity in Westfold, Telemark, Buskerud and Agderfylken. A prerequisite for good return is that the staff in criminal care have satisfactory competence, an area that was also dealt with in St.meld. No Thirty-seven. The Ministry of Justice requested NOKUT, the abbreviation of the National Agency for Quality in Education, to evaluate the training of prison officers at KRUS, given that it can be part of a profession leading to a Bachelor’s degree in the university and higher education system. The application was now granted in February. This contributes to an increase in the professional quality of criminal enforcement. Another very broad measure of competence is the so-called ‘Competence Lift’. All those who have been in criminal care for five years or more must take part in a tying-up course. This course also teaches about the return guarantee, both as a political ambition and in practice. It's very unfortunate to release people right out of closed prisons. St.meld. No 37 called for an unconditional prison sentence to be implemented as far as possible through a gradual transition from prison to full freedom. The aim is to achieve a smoother transition to society. It is also an objective that no one should execute penalties below a higher level of safety than necessary. The Communication also called for increased use of criminal enforcement in society, both in the form of alternative criminal responses such as community sanctions, judicial control drug programmes and anti-drug driving programmes and alternative forms of enforcement for unconditional prison sentences, such as criminal execution in treatment institutions and home sonarisation with and without electronic control. Electronic control was established as a pilot project in 2008 and is currently an offer in 10 counties with a total capacity of 215 places. Last year more than 1000 cases were carried out with electronic control, and the fraction of the breach is very low. The system is an action to improve the quality of criminal enforcement, by giving convictions the opportunity to discharge their social and financial obligations during the criminal execution and thereby to reduce relapses to new crimes. The system has just been evaluated by the Criminal Education Centre. It is too early to say anything certain about relapses after implementation with electronic control, but it is nice to note that the report shows a relapse of only 10 p.p., and that the convictions experience that the punishment helps to avoid falling out of society. I want to further facilitate the increased use of electronic control and will inform the Stortinget that there will be proposals this spring to establish the use of electronic control as a protective surrogate in Norway. I don't think this will mean a significant reduction in the number of custody prisoners in prison, but it will be a suitable alternative in some cases. The conditions for children of prisoners and convictions shall be improved. I want to send a bill to the Stortinget for the autumn to legislate the responsibility of the criminal services to the children of convictions, including to establish a function as child-responsible in all prisons and free custody offices. Criminal custody is changing all the time. In recent years, we have seen a significant increase in the proportion of foreign prisoners, which presents challenges in terms of language, communication and cultural understanding, but also attention around the world. It is essential to have sufficient and appropriate personnel to solve a changing societal challenge. The notification announced the preparation of a crew report analysing the expected departure of personnel and reasons for this, and the current and future needs of the criminal justice system. The services of other departments will also have implications for the needs of the criminal services themselves. Some prisons have been selected where resource use and tasks are to be further studied as the basis for a crew report. I have chosen to mention some key development areas. There are many other important areas where work is being done in the follow-up to the notification. Examples include the establishment of 13 detention centres, the need for interpretative services, compensation for female prisoners, new research strategies, work in prisons and the use of so-called ‘restorative justice’ in criminal justice. Finally, I would like to stress that Norway has the lowest rate of relapse in the Nordic region, at around 20 pst, which was also covered by the inter-pellant. This tells us that the measures and the way we punish, actually work. The vast majority of convictions go back to a crime-free life after a criminal offence has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1329	I want to start by thanking the Council of State so much for a good answer to my big and open questions. It is clear that work is being done both intensively and purposefully to put the intentions into the main message Penalty that works, into life. It's reassuring. In my main post I did not have time to pay attention to the care. As we all know, free care has a very important role to play, given the alternative criminal responses outside prison. The free movement of persons carries out community sanctions and ensures that parole officers comply with the conditions laid down and carry out conditional judgements with pro-mille programmes and follow-up persons who are paroled from detention, subject to detention or who carry out the punishment in their own homes. In addition, personal studies are carried out on a mission basis. According to the big news, we say that society is best served by the fact that more people are being punished by the social penalty. But in practice, we have recorded that there has been a decline in the use of community sanctions. It would be interesting to know why developments are moving in the opposite direction to the adopted political objectives. Can any of the explanations lie in the fact that the prosecution authority and the courts are simply not aware enough of the possibility of requesting personal investigations from the free movement of persons and the imposition of social penalties? Another moment I want to address in the debate today is the conditions of parole. As is well known, parole is an integral part of the enforcement of the prison sentence and, in the event of a breach of the conditions, the voluntary services must send a breach notice to the region, which, after its proceedings, sends an application for conversion to the courts. Then the court will refer the matter to the court and give a verdict on the reinstatement, which will be sent to the criminal justice department. Then the dome is called the atoning. In practice, it may take several months from the offence until sentences are returned to prison. In my view, this is unfortunate to a group of convictions, since immediate and consistent response to crime is likely to be the most effective measure to prevent relapses into new crime. The scheme may also lead to the use of probation, as an important termination tool, less than foreseen because of the time taken for him to be reinstated in prison in the event of repeated breaches. I think we should take a closer look at the procedures that make the reinstatement not take so long if the breakup occurs. It would have been interesting to hear if the Council of State would take a closer look at this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1346	The questions raised by the interpellant illustrate the scale of the challenges faced by criminal services, and also why this communication was so important in its time. So we must not let go of either the whole or the individual elements that contribute to making our criminal care what I want to say is one of the best things in the world. With regard to social services, we have constant attention around it, and we see with some concern that this still does not appear to be a form of reaction used according to its full potential. I have therefore also previously spoken from this pulpit – if I remember correctly, I have said that I am prepared to engage in dialogue with the prosecution authority about this. When we look at the figures for the current year, we're at about the same level as last year. The ambition must be to see if this is a reaction form that is suitable for a larger number than today. The questions relating to conditions of probation, breakage and resettlement illustrate how important it is for us to be able to achieve rapid and seamless interaction between the various actors involved in this issue. In terms of both this area and prisoners who are struggling with drug problems, I think one of the most important challenges for us is to seek, if possible, better solutions to this than what we have done so far. I feel that with the transnational cooperation that has been created, and also with the use of new technology and ever-increasing interaction also in the justice sector itself, we are constantly moving in the right direction. Sometimes they may feel too small, but we have to have an ambition to make sure that we do these things together, and without unnecessary delays, for the benefit of it. Making up a sentence and getting on in life is important for the individual convicted person.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1357	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for putting criminal care on the agenda in Stortinget. The most important task of criminal justice is to enable the prisoners to deal with life outside the walls on the day they have served the sentence. It is crucial, both for individuals and for society. Education and training in prisons is a central part of this work. Many people need to complete high school or high school. Very few take courses at colleges or universities, but there are some. It is demanding, because the already limited Internet access does not allow for a possibility to visit platforms that may be needed in your study. This applies to high-security prisoners. Prisoners with low security have great opportunities both to complete their primary school education and to acquire the skills they will need in society outside, and to take higher-level subjects as long as the prison has good cooperation relations with secondary schools near prison. Some of the prisoners need help with mental and psychopathy, to change their thinking, or to clean up their economy. Today they have the opportunity to do so in many of the country's prisons. There is, as I see it, the need for a closer follow-up after the finished zone judgment than what is given today. The hub in the municipalities to which he is to be returned has a particularly important responsibility for the fact that life outside the walls does not lead to a failure which, in turn, leads one back behind the walls. There is reason to believe that female convictions in Norway do not offer equivalent compensation to those offered to convicted men. It is the feedback from employees, including the trustees, but also the prisoners. We know that women have different needs under atonement than men. There are relatively few prisons today that receive women. As a result, women often have to travel further away from family, children and their network than men have to. This may result in difficulties in maintaining close relations, in particular in view of the contact they should have with their children, if any. Many women sons in prison together with men, and this is problematic, among other things. because several of these women have a traumatic upbringing, where they have been subjected to both violence and sexual abuse of men. They can be subjected to untimely and stressful pressure from the male prisoners, which is very unfortunate with the background they may have. The goal of the compensation must be to offer these women the opportunity to process the traumas of abuse and to teach them to set limits for their own bodies and their own sexuality. There are few prisons today where women do not son with men. It is also a poorer offer for women in view of progress in the settlement. The possibility for women to have a seamless settlement must be that they are moved from prisons with high security to prisons with lower security and further to the transitional residence. There is much less opportunity for this for women than for men, and it is precisely because there are few prisons that have only atoning for women. The content of the ransom in the prisons that have both sexes is also little adapted to women. The job offer often consists of mechanical work and woodwork. Women and men are also together in e.g. work or at school, which in itself may prove problematic. I look forward to the further work on the criminal service and also on the capacity plan, which the Minister of Justice had in mind in his contribution. There are many who want such a plan to be welcomed. It was also the feedback I received on my last prison visit to the Mos Sea prison on Friday. A review of capacity needs is needed. If we want one to zone the nearest possible place of residence, there is a need for reorganization. We also need to review today’s capacity and future needs for women as sons in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1380	The Progress Party shares the inter-pellant’s desire to clarify what has been done by the government to follow up the various proposals and measures contained in the Single European Act. I also understand that there is a desire to pass on signals to the Ministry of Finance in connection with the budget. We'd like to take a look at both content and quality in criminal matters. Because here we don't think it's just shine and glory, even though a lot of good has happened since the big message was presented and adopted. The content of the compensation has only become more important and important. Rehabilitation, sequestration and the focus on individual prisoners’ ability to succeed are important. But there are also other areas in which you should have a greater focus. So let's do that. the cows. In the Committee's opinion in 2009, it is noted that the queues have been reduced from approx. 3000 to less than 500. Today, we see that the queues have grown, even though alternative reconciliation measures have been in place, such as home reconciliation, reconciliation, forward release and other measures that we in the Progress Party oppose. The capacity of our prisons has been detonated, and I would say that there have been major changes since the notification was submitted in 2008 and until now, in 2012. The criminality picture and the background of the prisoners have changed significantly. There is a precarious lack of closed settlements and custody facilities, and there is an urgent need to find a solution, as legal certainty and security are being compromised, and it is not least that people trust the public when criminals are being released into the streets today because there is no room for exorcism. Furthermore, we see that there is a significant need to upgrade existing building mass within the criminal justice system. Is a new lock in place in Skien Prison? No, no, no. Are several places in the youth unit in Bjørgvin prison completed? No, no, no. What about Oslo's screaming need for upgrade – how far have we come there? We've got a new prison, Halden Prison. But what else has happened around the country? We know that there is a screaming need for new prisons around the country. This was also addressed to the representative Anna Ljunggren. Among other things, we see that the building mass at the Drammen prison and Kristiansand prisons is not durable for today's settlement, as the places are on top of high blocks, without expansion possibilities. Here the government has to start investigating new facilities. In the context of this 2008 Communication, we proposed that 300 new closed prisons should be built. But this proposal only got the votes of the Progress Party – sin, otherwise perhaps the situation today would have been completely different. This could have made a difference, because now we see police officers driving country and beach around to find free space. As regards the return guarantee, we fully agreed with the government in the intentions presented in the notification. But we were sceptical as to whether the guarantee would make any difference, all the time it didn't seem that the government would follow up with sufficient funds. We now see that this has not happened to a large extent either. Now I'm not going to go into the individual points in the 2008 message, but I'm not going to get past the KRUS. It was a unanimous committee which at the time indicated the importance of the role of prison officers in the implementation of criminal sanctions. It was pointed out by a unanimous committee that the method and measures must be followed up with satisfactory staffing in the various prisons. Has this been done? We mean no. The number of unskilled people currently working in criminal services is increasing. The employees who work in this field have a daily life that more and more exposes the individual to both physical and mental violence. The occupancy rate is about 100, and the number of jobs per shift is too low. The increase in foreign criminals as sons in Norwegian prisons has been so great that we are now up in about. 60 pst. in Oslo prison, and there is a national average of about 35 pst. It is clear that this puts employees to the test in terms of language, culture and other matters. Although we in the Progress Party finally see that the government parties have listened to us and taken on board what we have said for several years, namely the necessity and benefit of creating their own departments and their own prisons for criminal foreigners, it is too late. Now it just remains for me to point out the need to get a big message, not about criminal care, but about victim care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1406	Also, I would like to stress and thank you to the interpellant for giving us the opportunity to discuss with this interpellation an important topic which has been a long time since the Stortinget had the opportunity to debate widely, as is the case in this interpellation. As a newly elected member of the Stortinget and new member of the Judicial Committee in the autumn of 2009, it was striking – and a very positive experience for the undersigned – to meet staff at all levels of criminal justice, because of their commitment to the social mission that they have been given and that they have taken on, impressed and inspired. Of course, it's a task for us to also politically facilitate that commitment to both a direction and a result that we all want. It is about punishment and rehabilitation — punishment as a response from society to unacceptable acts. Penalty is also a signal that should lead to one’s hopefully not repeating – or not committing – the same criminal offence. This is, of course, about rehabilitation in order to facilitate the non-criminalisation of new criminal offences. There's a context that is the entrance of the Right in Justice Policy, and many in other parties here on the Stortinget will probably also recognize themselves in. But there is no lack of challenges in criminal justice. We have a development in the pay queue that gives cause for concern. Rapid transitions from investigation and prosecution to conviction are important, but a rapid transition from judgment to acquittal is also important. The longer that transition lasts, the greater the vacuum – if you can call it that – the convicted person will experience. Research and experience suggest that the longer the waiting period, the greater the risk of new crime. But there are in particular two challenges in addition to the pay queue I want to point out. As the previous speaker, the representative Michaelsen, pointed out, we now have a situation in Norwegian prisons where every third prisoner is a foreign citizen. For the Right, it's important that we address it more effectively than today. By doing so, we believe that we need to do more to prevent those who come from abroad and have committed crime in Norway, to a greater extent than today, from establishing networks while they are in Norway, and especially when they are serving in Norwegian prisons. For a long time, we have highlighted the importance of getting own departments or even own prisons for non-residents in Norwegian prisons. We meet with great interest as, among other things, happens at Ullersmo on that occasion. But this should have been done earlier, and we also see the importance that it should have been done more. This must also be linked to agreements on the transfer of compensation, so that foreign nationals with Norway’s judgment are more than today subject to that judgment in their country of origin. The second element I want to point out is that we want a greater focus on non-governmental organisations in rehabilitation, so that we can get better capacity in rehabilitation, greater and wider competence, and that we can also get the good results we hear on the voluntary efforts in rehabilitation. We also note with pleasure the Council of State's mention of children and young people in prison, and are pleased that it is being further worked on. It's important. I therefore thank you for the opportunity to make some contributions from the Right in an important interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1429	Let me first thank the inter-pellant for giving the opportunity – as many have said before – to debate and discuss a very important topic on which we work daily in the Committee, but which the Stortinget has not had the opportunity to debate as widely as we can and should do today. I'm proud to be part of a majority in this room that has, over the last seven years, taken a new course in criminal matters in our country. We have with the criminal health report – St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08 Punishment that works — laid the principle of normality at the heart of criminal execution in Norway. We have pointed out that it is the rehabilitation that is most important when a human being is so unfortunate that he or she must zone behind the walls. The return guarantee is one of the most important components of the criminal execution, because we know that those who are convicted will come back. Then it is important that we do what we can to ensure that when he comes back, he or she is a better person and a better neighbor than when he or she was imprisoned. In that, rhyme is an important moment. Training opportunities are important. We've implemented and actually made sure that for the first time in the country's history, there is access to libraries for all prisons, and that labour training is done in prisons. I have visited some prisons myself, among others. Prison, which provides great work training for the prisoners. The Justice Committee visited the United States a year ago. I remember a line from one of our interlocutors who had 40 years of experience in leading positions in the criminal justice system in the United States. He said, you have absolutely nothing to learn from us – on the contrary. I am proud that we have a knowledge-based and not a revenge-based criminal code in Norway. There's also an approximate consensus about this in Stortinget. In order to achieve the objectives that we have drawn in the Criminal Service Communication, it is important that we have motivated staff and staff in prisons. There I'm a little worried. I'm worried that people who don't have any education from the forensics school are increasing. That doesn't mean they're not important, that they're not useful, that they don't have good qualifications with them. They definitely do, but we have to make sure that this imbalance doesn't get too big. If we want to achieve our goals, we depend on our employees being with us and not against us, and that it's a pleasure for them to go to work every single day. That's when they can do the job to achieve the goals. I also see that a good number of people who are in prison have a different mother tongue than Norwegian. There are people who are going out of the country after they have pronounced their sentence, and there are people who are going to come back to somewhere – to Greenland, to Herey, or to Finnmark. Then it is important that we communicate with them, that we have a dialogue with them. All prisoners are entitled to an individual rehabilitation plan, and there must be a dialogue. They must be able to understand what is said in these conversations. I am concerned that the interpretation possibilities are not as optimal as they should have been. It is essential that the rehabilitation plan is properly established and implemented. Then I very much agree with the representative, Ljunggren, that very many women have very poor reconciliations. I fully agree that in many of these countries, women in particular — but also men — have been subjected to sexual abuse and other types of male abuse. When they are to execute their punishment with men, it is demanding for them. I expect – and I am absolutely sure – that the Council of State is looking at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1444	Criminal policy is more than punishment, and punishment is more than home. The basic purpose of punishment is to prevent undesirable behaviour and to guide the behaviour of citizens in the desired direction. An important objective of punishment is to rehabilitate, rehabilitate a decent and socially useful life. If the goal of a life free from crime after an end-of-life settlement is to be met, the soning must be filled with an appropriate content. In a law-enforcement state, there is one consequence, and the consequence must have one purpose. It is precisely the content of the soning that makes the big message, the punishment that works – less crime – safer societies, so important. The message describes, as many people have been about, how prison sentences can get out of a criminal everyday life and lead to a better life. Crime prevention is one of many areas where voluntary work is also an important contribution, for example: by building networks for deployment while they execute the punishment, even after they are released. Establishing social networks that can help the convicted person after release is an important contribution to preventing relapses into new crime. Networking has also been a priority of several voluntary organisations. I think it must be an obvious goal to strengthen this even more in the years to come. They're showing a big and real commitment. Also in the past, the idea of helping them, I believe, to continue a life free from crime. I am pleased that the government has identified the kind of network actions that exist in the criminal care regions, with the aim of increasing the availability of such interventions. The offer extends not only to the individual, but also to the children of the inmates and other relatives, and they are added to the criminal justice system. I have to say something about electronic control. Atonement with electronic control has produced very good results and shows that alternative cushioning has a good effect. Reconciliation is still a challenge in criminal matters, and in order to address this problem, electronic control and other alternative measures make sense. Both sitting in prison and zoning with electronic control outside a prison are the loss of freedom. The last one isn't a sort of punishment, as it might seem like some party I think. The result is most important: to minimise the rate of relapse by means of appropriate penalties. I would like the government to continue to impose penalties with electronic control in several states, as Agder County and Akershus were included in this year's budget. A housing with electronic control is now available in 10 counties, and the total capacity of this housing becomes 215 places. The little prisons are close to my heart. I have seen myself, among other things. by Hustad prison and the Mos Sea prison that small absolute good can be, including in criminal matters. Small prisons provide shorter transport distances for the police, opportunities for individual deployment and good interaction with the local environment. We can't accept that there's no equivalent offer for everyone as a son in Norwegian prison, but we're looking for solutions, so that every insert can get the help they need to be rehabilitated and to change behavior. I'm proud to be part of a government constellation where we can keep our eye on the fact that the goal is to prevent and rehabilitate rather than punish. I'll end by saying that the interpellant, Tove-Lise Torve, is showing a commendable commitment to the quality and content of criminal care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1473	Then I can say that I am proud to be in an opposition that every day ensures that the government is trying to keep all the points of agreement, what we agreed on in St. report. No 37, so there's a broad political majority behind it. The representative of Chaudhry actually stole my point about New York initially. I also remember very well how he said that we had nothing to learn. It says a little if we have succeeded quite a lot in Norwegian criminal care. At the same time, you have to subtract a little bit of know-how, given that in the United States you have a system of how much is at the state level. We can also be inspired by a lot of programs that work in American politics in some states, so it's probably not as black and white as it was presented in that meeting, as the representative heard in the same way as the rest of us. I think the interpellant has presented in a very good way the broad consensus and understanding that we have in Norwegian and Nordic policies in this field as well. Despite the high level of media attention, we agree on the basic principles of criminal law. But I have a few comments on the good post from the interpellant. In the case of relapses, we should also go a little bit behind that statistics. If you go in more closely, you can see that we have had a different statistical guide on traffic crime than you have, for example. has in Sweden. Since it has also been measured over a two-year period, e.g. for moral crimes, where there is a greater distance between acts, the figures behind them show that there may be a greater percentage of relapses for morals and also serious violent crimes. So when we boast of the numbers, we're going to be able to do it, but also take the reservation that it's important to use them soberly, so that we don't think we're better than what we are in terms of relapses for all kinds of crime, not least the most serious violence and the credulity we see. The right is excited about the capacity plan. The question for the Right is how the Storting should be specifically involved in its treatment, because there must be some clear leadership for many years to come. We need to give priority to different projects, and we need to have a clear understanding of what the trends are going to be – not just one or two years ahead, but many years ahead. I hope the Council of State can explain how the Storting should be involved, because I think it makes sense that the Storting is involved – not as a sand striker body, but as a sparing partner for the capacity plan. It leads over to my next point, that the graduates end up. The Professional Association of Criminal Services has quite gruesome statistics that show that there are very many people who work very short hours in criminal care, and then start in completely different professions. We need to think about how we're going to keep more of the professionals, because we don't have the means, either personally or socially, to let so well-qualified staff work for a short time with what they're trained to do. We want more research on criminal care, because there's a lot of vision: what works? What doesn't work? Although I am not going to instruct the National Audit Office to carry out a brief review, it would have been okay if we soon received some national audit reports on what is happening and not what is happening in terms of money use, even in criminal matters, because the well-being of programmes and actions that are being carried out does not always happen after a very clear thought. It reports a good deal of staff, and also the organisations, in criminal custody. Some batches were shown to have been skeptical for the use of electronic controls. That's right. The right has been skeptical and has wanted it to be reserved for young people, but with the challenges we have on the capacity side now, and not least the recognition that more people have good results with it – and it is definitely not a dear mother to walk around with it on the ground and follow up the way it is done – we are in the Right open to assess the increased use of electronic control. At the same time, we also have to ask questions about the statistics on relapses, for who is it that is initially picked out to get electronic control? Are there people who are resource-powerful, or are there people who are not quite so resource-powerful? We have to look at the statistics there. The representative, Mr. Werp, has mentioned foreign criminals. We want to use EEA funds to buy capacity abroad, not just content in housing, and hope that we will soon be able to clarify where the government is on that issue. At the very end: equality. Yes, it's incredibly important that the representative Ljunggren deals with women and men in prisons. But then there's reason to remember that not all women, not all men, are heterophilic. Some are lesbians or gays. It is not that only women who are victims and who are subjected to abuse or other in prison, or before they got there – you also have to remember that when you talk about those who need other remedies to escape traumatic experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1499	Thanks to the participants in the debate for many good and reflected contributions. It is very good to confirm that we are in charge of the St.meld intentions. No 37 for 2007–08 Punishment that works — less crime — safer societies, and that it is a policy we should pursue across policies. The principle that everyone should be able to settle and get a new opportunity in life after committing a criminal act is incredibly important, and we know that rehabilitation is the way to go. A few words about the settlement queues, which many people have had in mind: we all remember that the settlement queue was around 3,000 when the red-green ones took over in 2005, and that the settlement queue was almost closed in 2009, on which the Council of State was involved. It has now risen a little, but is now on its way down again – at less than 800 judges. The party pointed out that when dealing with this notification, the 300 new prison sites were proposed. That was certainly a good suggestion. I just have to remind the representative Åseen that the capacity since the red-green takeover has increased by 800 seats. If electronic control had been abolished, as the Progress Party wants, it would in fact have lost 215 sites today. I am very pleased with the signals from the Right, which sees that with electronic control it can be a very effective and rehabilitating form of reconciliation. I'm very pleased with those signals. I fully agree with the representative from the Right when it comes to using the statistics without reflecting that there has been a short time in relation to the RETURN, the Nordic relapse study. We know it's going to be repeated, and you're going to improve the criteria, so you're going to be as equal as possible in all of those countries. Finally, something about the foreign prisoners: it's a challenge that we don't just have in Norway. All the Nordic countries have many foreigners in their prisons, and so do they in Europe. It is, as we all know, a consequence, among other things. of great need in some parts of Europe and in the rest of the world, and that we have open borders. That is why we also have a very high interest in joining the reconciliation transfer agreements that the EU has put in place. In the end, we from the Workers' Party are proud of what we've done in criminal matters, but we're not satisfied, we're going to go on, and we're going to be close to prioritising the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1518	I will also have the opportunity to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative and for the good debate. To comment on some of the questions that have come up, let me immediately take up the question of reconciliation for women. We have more than 23 working groups that have been involved in the follow-up to the message, and that is how we set up this six months a working group to monitor the reconciliation of prisoners and sentenced women. They will also be given the task of presenting proposals which can help to ensure that convictions and detentions can be offered as well as male prisoners and convictions. It is a pleasure that we have few women who commit crime, so we have few women in our prisons. But they should be as good atonement as men. To the question of foreigners in prison, it is true that in recent years we have seen a sharp increase in the number of foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons. The government wants to make it possible for foreigners who commit crime to be apprehended, convicted and sent out of the country as soon as possible. We have therefore, as has also been mentioned, stepped up work to ensure that foreign prisoners can be transferred quickly to their home country for continued criminal execution. With the transfers we made last year, we have seen an increase over the years in this area, and we want to work towards continuing this trend. The work established at Ullersmo is also an important part of the whole of compensation for non-residents. It might sometimes be interesting to go back a little bit in time. The study carried out by the Statistical Centre in 1987 showed that half of those who became known as guilty of a crime actually experienced a new reaction over the next five years in freedom. So now that we have a relapse rate of 20 pst, this shows that we're on the right track. But we're going to go on, not least with skills-enhancing measures and also with the capacity plan, which is referred to several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1529	That being the case, it is no. 10 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1546	Rehabilitation ensures the quality of life and the possibility of an active and equal life for those affected by illness or accident. We all agree on an important political objective – full participation and equality for people with disabilities. For blind and partially sighted people, a good rehabilitation offer is crucial if the right to an active and equal life is to be more than a fancy promise. It is our job as politicians to ensure that words are followed by action, that political promises become tangible measures and commitments. Professor Bjørn Nicolaissen of the Eye Department of Ullevål University Hospital estimates that 14,000 Nordics have a severely reduced view of eye diseases every year. Not all of these will need visual rehabilitation, but the number gives a hint about the amount of loss of vision. According to the Norwegian Blind Association, 230 new users enter the organisation’s rehabilitation course each year. It is obvious that the gap between the actual service provision and the need is enormous. Unfortunately, only the very few with severe visual impairment are offered a longer and most necessary offer of master’s rehabilitation — but only after waiting for years. 80 pst. of our senses comes through the vision. The burden of total or partial loss of vision and the need for training and learning of new techniques to master everyday life are very great in such a situation. Studies show that the loss of vision leads to depression, isolation, inactivity, somatic distress, loss of association, and, unfortunately, most people also fall out of work. Rehabilitation corrects a lot of this and makes sure that those affected by loss of vision get out of life again. It has been demonstrated, and accepted, that rehabilitation is important and necessary, both after disease and serious accidents. There is also a broad consensus that the more the rehabilitation begins, the greater the gain – mainly for the individual, but also for society. Successful rehabilitation increases the quality of life and enables many to participate in the labour market and reduces and exposes the need for home services, health care facilities and other costly measures for society. Most people who lose sight don't see what it takes for them to be able to live an active life again. They have more than enough to deal with the senses. Today's reality is that it goes on average five years from a person's loss of vision until he comes to rehabilitation. Many people lose valuable years, and many never get the opportunity to rebuild a life span and a quality of life that was within reach right after the disease or damage reduced functional function. A few authentic examples I've received from the Blind Alliance clearly show what happens to lifelong learning and quality of life for those who don't get a rehabilitation offer. One example: Life loses sight 37 years old, and it goes all 12 years before she gets rehabilitation. She loses her job relatively quickly, lives on the blush and ends up with a severe depression. When she gets rehabilitation after twelve years of waiting, Life rises again. Today she is a resource person for her local environment; she is central to the Council for the Disabled and contributes much to the active life of other disabled people. But the twelve lost years Life never gets back. Another example is Bjorn. He's 55 years old and he's in a leadership position. He wakes up one morning with much reduced vision. The eye doctor sends him home with a message that there is nothing they can do, and that in the worst case he becomes completely blind. Bear gets no information that there is rehabilitation to learn to master life with very poor vision. He lives in severe depression and isolates himself from everyone, including the family. He gets the police to pick up weapons that he has at home, because he fears what he can do in the darkest moments. After nine months, Bjørn is contacted by an peer who gets him into a rehabilitation course. Today, three years later, he does a lot of volunteer work for others and is active in organisations. Bear himself says that life is better than before the loss of vision. He was saved by chance. Another example is one who works in a Western municipality, which lost sight. We visited that municipality in connection with the election campaign. He had also been sitting at home for far more than a year without getting any help. Finally, he got in touch at random with someone who gave him a connection in the Blind League. He is still planning in that municipality today. He has come back to work, but it was by chance. Everyone with visual impairment needs training, and they need confirmation that they will still be able to live active and good lives. This means that rehabilitation must be carried out by professionals on sight and by peers who know what it means to lose sight of it. This combination provides competence and trust, which is a prerequisite for success in rehabilitation. Participation in rehabilitation courses teaches many basic skills, such as mastering day-to-day tasks, using PCs with magnification, speech and/or writing, self-orientation and security, the use of tools for reading, cooking, washing clothes, reading and sending text messages, etc., and not least to gain knowledge of your own eye disease and motivation to get into physical form. It is also important for those who are affected, that they maintain hobbies, rework the emotional aspect and regain self-esteem. It should be a matter of course that people affected by serious loss of vision are quickly offered the necessary follow-up and rehabilitation so that they can live active lives as soon as possible, and once again take part in society and working life. The State budget for 2012 announces that it is envisaged to shift the adaptation and rehabilitation courses of the sensory loss groups to the health regions or municipalities. A transfer will result in the individual right most likely to become a general obligation, and thus it is the administration that decides to a large extent who is being rehabilitated and what the individual is to be offered. I cannot see this as an improvement in relation to today's situation. A transfer to health regions will lead to even less focus on this type of rehabilitation than what we have today. Health regions have a history showing that they are concentrating on medical rehabilitation, and there is no reason to believe that this will change if they are given responsibility for rehabilitation in the event of loss of sense. As a result, rehabilitation will lose in the fight for the crowns. For more than one group of visually impaired persons, e.g. those of an occupational age are the rehabilitation of persons at national level. In health regions, there is great and growing skepticism about using an offer located in other health regions. Giving responsibility to the health regions will also lead to inequalities between regions, while the right to popular security gives an equal right throughout the country. Giving responsibility to municipalities will mean that too many people are offered a poor local economy and lack of competence. It is therefore not a solution to leave responsibility to the municipalities, which are already struggling to implement the responsibilities they have. By shifting responsibility for rehabilitating the sensitivities groups out of popular concern, there will be great differences, and one sees that there will be a severe reduction in supply, with the serious consequences that this entails. The Progress Party believes that it is essential that the right to and financing of visual rehabilitation remain in the public interest. The challenge is to bring different professional environments into contact with people who have poor vision, in order to refer to master’s rehabilitation. All municipalities must have a visual contact with sufficient competence and time to capture people with a permanently impaired vision, including: shall be provided with the necessary habilitation or rehabilitation. I have also previously asked for a visual register in a question, which may be a tool that will open up opportunities to give everyone who needs it, the necessary visual rehabilitation – both because you can then dimension the aid properly and because it allows you to find those people who have actually experienced loss of vision. In the 1980s and 1990s, there was a limited number of cases of blinding in the Rikshospitalet, such as: was used to provide an offer of rehabilitation to persons in the box. It was the salvation of many to an active life through rehabilitation. Such a register will also open up research that can go further and be more accurate than today. The Party also considers that well-functioning referral procedures must be put in place, that rehabilitation must take place without undue delay. There is a great injustice to people who have come into a hopeless situation, that they are not caught up in order to get the necessary help to improve their situation. The question I hope to get a clear answer from the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think today's referral arrangements and rehabilitation services for this group are working well? What concrete action, if any, will the Council of State take to ensure that all, and not just some, with the need for visual rehabilitation, receive an offer without a long waiting period?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1586	The representative of Vigdis Giltun addresses an important theme. As in many other areas of rehabilitation, this is about how people can live good lives, even if they have a disability, such as: loss of vision. Persons who have significantly reduced vision and who need training to master their daily lives shall be provided with the necessary assistance and training. I am responsible for specialist health services and municipal health and care services. Many people with visual impairments need help to master life in a practical and social way, including in school, education and work. That is why many sectors are following the responsibility for people with visual impairment. Among other things, the Training Act provides highly weak minded and blind students with the right to the necessary training in credit and training in the use of the necessary technical aids. Students also have the right to training to get to and from school and the community. The right to training also applies to children who are under the age of compulsory training but who are in particular in need of special pedagogical measures. This means that very weak and blind children should receive individualised help so that they can participate in their natural growing environment. Those who experience loss of vision at an adult age have the right to individually adapted training to develop or maintain similar basic skills. It is the municipalities or counties responsible for following up these rights. Municipalities and county councils may seek assistance and services from the State special educational support system Statped. Statped cooperates with PPT and other municipal and/or county authorities. Stortingsberichten – Meld. St. 18 for 2010–2011 — Learning and community aims to ensure early participation and good learning environments for children, young people and adults with special needs. Several measures in this Communication will lead to better training provision for the most vulnerable and blind. The government has presented its own universal design plan. Universal design is important for people with visual impairment to function well in society. It's about removing thresholds and barriers, whether they're in buildings, on websites or in general in the community. Different visual aids may be of great importance. These aids are financed by Nav. In the healthcare service, for which I am responsible, habilitation and rehabilitation are carried out both in the specialist health services and in the municipalities. The interaction reform emphasises that such services should be provided as closely as possible where the user lives — in the municipality. This responsibility is evident in the new Health and Welfare Act. The municipality shall have a general overview of the need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation among its inhabitants. All residents or residents shall be offered the necessary investigation and follow-up if necessary. For many people with visual impairment, it will include practical assistance, organisation and support and assistance to participate in physical and social activities. Municipalities and health enterprises are to further develop the coordination unit scheme and to a greater extent make use of individual plans for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The work of the municipalities’ visual and auditory contacts should be closely linked to the coordinating unit. Nav also has a central responsibility for people with visual impairment. Based on popular opinion, contributions are made to institutions for the blind and partially aware who are owned by the Norwegian Blind League. There is also a contribution to Midtun Holiday and Recreational Homes. Support is also provided for day-to-day training activities. The rate of adjustment of the Blind Association's course centres is financed by this grant. Through the Disability Study Association, the Blind Alliance may receive grants under the Adult Education Act. This is financed from the Ministry of Knowledge's budget. For people with visual impairment, learning to master daily life through technical and digital tools will be particularly important. PC training and bitmap training will be important for many people who experience visual impairment as young people or adults. Proper and adapted facilities are important for good rehabilitation. Individuals must contact local health services when they need Nav assistance. It is important that agencies and trade unions coordinate and cooperate on a good rehabilitation process for each, in line with the Cooperation Reform. Training activities are important in the rehabilitation process for people with visual impairment. Aid is another important area. The health sector is responsible for the necessary investigation, diagnosis and treatment. Therefore, in the 2012 mission document to regional health businesses, I have set the objective of ensuring sufficient capacity for specialised rehabilitation and rehabilitation services to different groups, and establishing offers for patients with sensory impairment. People with visual impairment will have different needs depending on diagnosis and life-stage, and several sectors are responsible for cooperating with and dealing with people with visual impairment. This concerns the training sector, the Nav, the Municipal Health Service and the specialist health service. The health sector also has a special responsibility to cooperate with other agencies, so that each person is given integrated and coordinated services. This is what we have done through the Interaction Reform, where individual and comprehensive follow-up is central, including for people with loss of vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1612	I thank the Council of State for a statement on how today's offer works. Even one with very good eyesight would probably have difficulty getting into the jungle by who is responsible for what. That's a little bit where the problem lies. That's what I wanted to focus on today – good referral practices that make someone who loses sight, automatically comes to rehabilitation and gets the basic skills in place in the event of a loss of vision. This works very badly today. This is seen in the low number of the Blind League on course, compared with the 14 000 who are suffering loss of vision. I had hoped that the council would tell how to catch these. I was also surprised that she said that in 2012 it was secured capacity for rehabilitation. Does this apply to the 14,000, or maybe 6,000, or how many there are that will need? Do you have an overview of who needs visual rehabilitation? How will the Council of States ensure that they actually get this quickly, without waiting? That's what's been the problem. There is capacity. There is also a wish from among others. The blindfold to contribute more, but the problem is to capture those who need it. As far as referral procedures are concerned, it is very important. As long as it's a powdered responsibility, how many people are responsible, there's often no one who takes it, and no one who gets to the person who needs it, for those who need it, don't know all these possibilities and rights. This is something that the specialist health service has to take responsibility for. Someone has to take responsibility. For this is expensive both in crowns and ears, but it is most expensive in terms of loss of quality of life for those involved and the families. I am a little disappointed that this debate does not want to address the problem: how can you do better? You don't just have to tell me how things work, because the way it works, it doesn't work well. That's for sure. Now, what you have to think about is how you can't just do it a little bit better, or hope it works in a few years, but put systems in place, because this is a big system failure. I hope that the Council of State, at least in its next post, will say something a little more concrete about how to catch this up and make sure that what patients are actually entitled to, is implemented. It is also the case that in very many municipalities you do not have good enough visual contacts. It is also important to capture those who have not necessarily been exposed to an accident but who go home. This applies to many older people as well. There are a lot of people who will lose sight because of long-term diabetes, and who themselves are not aware of what help they can get, and what they will need. I hope the Council of State can be a little clearer, look ahead and come up with some new measures that can ensure a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1625	What is my responsibility is health care and the health care part of this work. I want to stress that in the case of rehabilitation just for people who get a sense loss, they will need help from many instances. Nav and, not least, training, which is ultimately under the Ministry of Knowledge. But what I have a lot of understanding about is that many people feel that this is a jungle – that it is demanding and complicated. That is why we made the Cooperation Reform. That is why we created a new municipal health and care service law that should focus on individuals and that should focus on them, for example. have chronic diseases, so that they are better helped through health care and auxiliaries. It's kind of a little too easy to think that there's only one type of rehabilitation – and then you've fixed everything. I have a lot of understanding that people who get a sense loss, like, for example. loss of vision, needs and benefits from meeting others in similar situations. That's why it's a very valuable offer for the Blind Alliance, and it's clear that we also have to make use of it. At the same time, however, all agencies — municipal, county and specialist health services — need to be better able to cooperate in order to tailor an offer to the individual. That is why I would like to point out the responsibility of the municipality. When you are in the specialist health service, it is the specialist health service that is responsible – it is those who are responsible for rehabilitation. That is why I have asked in the mission document that we have to have sufficient capacity for rehabilitation, including for those who get a loss of sense. But at the same time, if you live in the municipality – everyone lives in a municipality – and you are in the municipal health service, it is the responsibility of the municipality to help you get a complete offer. The best thing to do then is to use an individual plan, precisely in order to coordinate the different services. I understand that this may sound complicated, but I also want to stress that there are many people here who have a great responsibility. Clearly, for those who lose sight, especially in adulthood, this is extremely difficult and demanding. We have to do what we can, from every instance, to contribute to a good rehabilitation, but at the same time it has to happen through the one that has the key -- and right now it's the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1634	It is an important debate and theme that the interpellant Giltun addresses today. People with visual impairment need good professional follow-up and rehabilitation both in the specialist health service and in the primary health service. One important objective of the Interaction Reform, mentioned earlier today, is that all types of healthcare – including rehabilitation services – should be provided as closely as possible where the individual patient or user lives, i.e. in the municipality. Visually impaired people, like others with disabilities, have requirements for assistance, organisation and access to resources, and to participate in society based on needs and opportunities. This is a right enshrined in the Health and Welfare Act. It is primarily the municipalities that are supposed to provide visually impaired people with the help they need. Municipalities and county councils may seek assistance from Statped, which provides the State special educational support for such assistance. Statped’s activities will be organised in 2013 in four regions – West, South East, Middle and North Norway, respectively. They shall serve the municipalities and county councils in their respective regions and take initiatives for planning as tailor-made services, in line with the wishes and needs of users in each municipality. Unlike the inter-pellant, I'm absolutely sure that regional organisation is better for people who lose their senses than a centralised service. For example, in my region, there is good experience with the regional deaf-blind centre in Tromsø, which is linked to the University Hospital of North Norway – and uses the expertise available there. An important effort is also being undertaken for the blind and partially syndicated at various institutions under the auspices of the Norwegian Blind Federation. In the north, in the north, in the north, we have a training centre in Evenes, which I know is of great importance for training and help for the blind and the feeble. Under the Act on Adult Education, the Association of Disabled Persons receives a grant from the Ministry of Knowledge. It is also important that municipalities and other public actors take seriously the need to ensure universal design in all planning. This will be particularly important for all people with disabilities, not least the visually impaired. The design of buildings, indoor and outdoor environments and various aids for the visually impaired are important and, in particular, people with visual impairment will benefit greatly from e.g.: digital facilities for schooling, studies and other training. As many know, but perhaps not all are aware of, aids are funded by Nav. Therefore, health professionals need to be up-to-date and on the offensive to assist people with disabilities — including those with visual impairment — with the assistance they are actually entitled to. The interpellant paints a gloomy picture of the situation of people with visual impairment, based on numbers from the Blind Alliance. And if this can certainly vary from municipality to municipality, I believe that many people with visual impairments can recognize themselves in the description given by the interpellant. I believe that a stronger and more robust community health service can remedy this. The interaction reform underlines the importance of coordinating unit and individual level, both in treatment and rehabilitation in the primary health service and in other services to be provided by the municipality. Here the municipalities' visual and hearing contacts are obliged to play on teams with the coordinator in the municipality. I believe that the arrangements of the Interaction Reform, as also mentioned by the Council of State, will have a major impact on the future rehabilitation of hearing and vision impaired people in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1653	I think the posts so far have shown that there is a very important issue that the interpellant addresses. The Akershus bench had a meeting with the Norwegian Blind League a week ago, and it made a strong impression to hear about the many individuals who have lost sight of it, and thus experience that they have lost the meaning of life. The few find the way back themselves, they often become pasteurised and lose contact with the outside world. Visual rehabilitation providers have been waiting for five years for rehabilitation — and only the 230 who actually receive rehabilitation, among others. at the visual and mastering centre in Hurdal, Akershus. There are the broad competences of visual rehabilitation, with trade union specialists working closely with a well-schooled peer-to-peer. Feedback from users is very good both in terms of the individual follow-up given, the quality of the course and activity activities and of the visits to the visual and master centres. But there are too few who get this opportunity. As mentioned above, only 230 people receive this possibility through the Blind Alliance each year, while about 230 are. According to Professor Bjørn Nicolaisen, 14,000 have reduced vision. In other words, there are a lot of people who don't get the help they need. I agree with the Norwegian Blind Alliance that it is essential that doctors, Nav staff and physiotherapists meeting people with visual impairment have the necessary skills. It is essential that there are good referral procedures, so that they are put in place, that rehabilitation is speedy and that the quality and scale of rehabilitation are good. Like the Norwegian Blind Alliance, which is the organisation with the most experience and expertise in the field, Right considers it important that the right to visual rehabilitation remains in public order, at least until further notice, and that it is not added to health businesses and municipalities. Transferring the rights now could lead to an even worse offer. Very many municipalities have neither the skills nor the capacity to follow-up and provide the necessary rehabilitation. This will lead to major differences in the offer, depending on the municipality in which you live. It's just about. 50 pst. of the municipalities having, inter alia: visual contact. The right also believes that it is important to put in place a visual register. It could be an important tool to ensure good rehabilitation and to provide an overview of the number of people with a visual impairment. It could provide a good basis for proper treatment, good rehabilitation and facilitate research and professional development in this area, which is clearly necessary. Experience shows that through good rehabilitation, most people get their lives back. This is why it is important that we strengthen this area significantly and ensure that all those who experience loss of vision receive rapid and good rehabilitation and may be strengthened by a situation that can initially be experienced as hopeless.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1672	This is a very important interpellation. I think the exchange of words so far shows that what we are looking for is good referral procedures in these systems that are made. That's what becomes the user's challenge in this – to put it that way: the cooperation reform is good, much of the responsibility must be gathered there, individual plans must be made, but the point is that you have to know that there is a person who needs an individual plan, in order for it to be made. So I would also like to know if the Council of State has any thoughts about how to make these referral procedures clearer, because I think that's what you're asking for in this interview. Not that there is a lack of authorities that are responsible and partly responsible – because if you first enter this system, it is at least possible to place the responsibility – but what I am also told about is that people with severe loss of vision are not notified to the system either from the specialist health service, from the supervisor or from Nav, if someone needs it, for example. adjustment rate. That's the problem. In addition, like the representative, Sjøli, I have had a lot of contact with the Blind Association over the years, and I have, among other things, This is discussed in the context of visual contact — and hearing contact is similar — and the quality varies widely across the country. The Labour and Social Committee visited the Help Center in Oslo and Akershus on Monday. There I asked them directly what kind of professional advice they would give us that the visual contact is a vulnerable point in this system. Then they said that they thought that you should actually tighten up the system and have a more centralised set-up around it if it is actually supposed to work as it is – because it's good thinking, and it's a good system where it works – that the visual contact has competence and can actually follow up people who need it. There are enough things here – not necessarily in terms of changes in today’s organisation, but a clearer location and quality assurance, so that those who need it and who benefit greatly from these adjustment courses actually get them, and get them as early as possible. Everyone understands that will help very much, because I think something happens with the mastery feeling and the confidence that you can do something if you are passive long after a loss of vision has occurred. What I need to underline very clearly – the Council of State said that the new Law on Municipal Health that came into the wake of the Reform of Cooperation – and that it is interesting to see, is where in the law the responsibility for referring these patients is further clarified, so that we can see it, or whether it is in the law of the Special Health Service. So if we are to have this interaction, we must know about this human being and know about the need. There is a general discussion on the resource area. There has been a large NOU – part of it should be decided – where it is also about how different areas of this funding are to be financed. It's for discussion. I have a great deal of understanding and sense for those who claim that there is a security in the system we have today, that it is the people's fear that finances parts of this. Not for that, the specialist health service and the municipal health service should have daily – and also comprehensive – responsibilities. So there's some sense in thinking like that too. But I think – item No. 1 – that something very important has to do with funding, namely that these tools are then under a heading that is not limited by operating frameworks, where something has to go to other health services. Item No 2: It provides greater security to ensure non-discrimination across the country. I believe that this is important in these matters, and there must be a great deal of emphasis when we are going to work on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1691	On the website of the Norwegian Blind Federation I found an interesting blog post, written in February this year. Let me quote some excerpts: ‘The weeks fly and we have already come far into February. The fact that things go against brighter times is always joyous, but in terms of good safe arrangements for the disabled, the future looks somewhat more uncertain and dark. [[...]] The person who writes further says that rehabilitation “is an area that is now so uncertain for anyone who will need rehabilitation in the future that we should all react here”. Further: ‘The interaction reform that suddenly fell inwards us has at least no good answer to this. Now almost the word rehabilitation is no longer used, but prevention and health protection. How should a person be prevented from becoming visually impaired or from suffering from diseases that require good and complete rehabilitation? When the state removes good arrangements with a pen stroke and launches major reforms without trying out any pilots, I'm very afraid that many people have to suffer." Finally, he writes: “Then again we are fighting a daily battle for those who have not been easy to be heard who have to save what can be saved.” What's so rehabilitation for someone who loses sight? What's this really about? Well, it's about something as difficult as learning to master your daily life again and learning compensatory techniques to master your loss of vision. These are functional, physical and emotional challenges. Some may have residual vision. They have to practice using this, and it can be demanding. New tools to compensate for loss of vision, which are crucial in everyday life, need to be learned about and put into service. We who see, think little through how we're going to move from place to place, out and in. This can be insurmountable for someone who is blind, even for someone who has been seeing before. In the midst of these physical challenges, a person who has lost sight must process the great loss and the grief that is, not to be seen any more. This is one of the aspects of visual rehabilitation. It goes without saying that this rehabilitation can't wait for years. The interpellant suggests that the average waiting time is five years — and thank you to the interpellant, who addresses this topic. Rehabilitation is a right under the Patient Rights Act. That pointed out to the Minister of Health when, together with others, I, in the last growing-up period, called for the creation of my own rehabilitation law. It was unnecessary, it was said. Why did the Christian People’s Party propose this? Well, that's because too many people didn't care about their need for rehabilitation. The Council of State refers to the Reform of Cooperation. However, in the context of the Interaction Reform, – as I know – the division of responsibilities between the first line service and the second line service has not yet been fully clarified in terms of rehabilitation. State councils might say something about when this work will be done. I hope it is finished, but I have not heard the final feedback. There is little coordination in this area; more have been involved. Many share the responsibility, it's broken and divided. Some of the measures that I and others have mentioned are the best patient organisations to operate. For this reason, it is a win-win situation to be able to provide organisations, such as Blind Federation, good financial support schemes. They work with courses, home visits and co-work and have habilitation services, and they have their own vision and mastering centres, to mention something. I guess the state's in here, too, and it's a big contributor. Not least, good rehabilitation contributes to independence and better quality of life – and, not least, to mastering your own life. In the end, I agree with what several have said about the public interest – that was probably the interpellant and the representative of SV, Andersen. I think you shouldn't let go of popular responsibility until you can prove that there is a complete and equivalent treatment for those who have loss of vision, or have lost sight completely. It really helps little with good laws and good intentions – and mission documents, for the part – if the help chain is full of holes, as we have been documented here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1728	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate and say that it is a pleasure that everyone clearly sees the problems that are. I rarely fully agree with SV, but this time I agree with Karin Andersen, who pointed out very specifically where the problem lies. I'm also glad that both the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Right have said that they want to keep the rights in the public domain. This is the only way to ensure that users receive funding for a rehabilitation offer. The cooperation reform does not guarantee anything in the world. If there's one area that can lose, it's just the rehabilitation area and the offer to chroniclers. That reform is meant to save money on not having people in hospitals. That's probably what municipalities have to spend all their resources on in the future. They don't have much resources. Keeping rights that are important to those with reduced functions, in the public interest, will at least work for the Progress Party. When it comes to universal design, the government is also a little bit slow in that area, I would say. There is not enough progress in work on universal design. In the case of the auxiliary area, 14 million have been cut this year. NOK for simpler tools, and there are many of the tools – let's say – that cost less than NOK 1500. If you need a lot of such tools, it becomes expensive, and you also lose the overview of what types of tools you should have that are good quality when they are taken out of the range. There is also no good development in this area, and there are still many who fear that responsibility for the aid sector will also become a sector responsibility. As Karin Andersen said, it was warned when we visited the Help Center in the Desert, where they said that sector responsibility had to wane to secure the users. That's what we have to focus on: getting responsibility together and getting funding where the money is. It's the state that has money, not the municipalities. The municipalities have varying opportunities to offer completely necessary rehabilitation and other types of rights, so I had hoped that during this interpellation the Council of State could be a little clearer, because it is to the Council of State that the interpellation is initially fixed. I can't see that there's something the Council of State has come up with, that will make sure that we quickly get systems that will allow those who lose sight to be rehabilitated. Now there are, among other things: The blindfold pointed out two things that can make this easy: it's a visual register, and it's good referral routines, where the one who loses sight is not let go. You get direct referral, and then it's up to them to find out where you get quality good rehabilitation, because it doesn't help with a rehabilitation if it's not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1749	First, I have to give a heart attack: I should actually like more representatives from the Stortinget to be present at a two-day health conference that was recently held here in Oslo, where we have been taking stock of the cooperation reform – which, after all, has only lasted four and a half months. In the areas where they started, concrete results have already been reported, for example: for ready-to-print patients. It is not that the Interaction Reform is just a reform to save money. Clearly, it is a reform to get a sustainable health care system, but not least to care for chroniclers. It is precisely for the chroniclers that the cooperation reform is important; it is for those who need the help of more services. What is complicated about those who suffer a loss of vision is that they need help not only from more healthcare but from many other services in different sectors. So it's like rehabilitation doesn't just become one thing – it's going to be a lot of things. It's going to be okay at home, it's going to be practical follow-up, it's going to be work follow-up in the hub and work organization, it's going to be health, of course, getting an investigation, and then it's going to be training – there's a lot of areas. There is one unit in the municipality that is responsible for this under the new municipal health and care services law, and it is coordinating unit. It is the unit that has to take responsibility for the individual who experiences e.g. a loss of vision, getting the help you need from the various instances. It shall not be the case that anyone should wait five years for rehabilitation – that is not acceptable. It's not hard to agree with that. It shouldn't be like that. According to the new law, rehabilitation is not soaring, but rehabilitation must take place both in the specialist health service and in the municipal health service, and it must also be included in agreements between municipalities and specialist health services, because it is different from what can be done in different municipalities. But this does not prevent the individual who has experienced a loss of sense, actually getting help, getting help and getting help to cope with everyday life. I will take the initiative myself to have a meeting with the Blind Alliance in the Department, just to find a good way to master this, because here there are many who have a responsibility, and the common responsibility we have to take – whether we are a state or a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1758	The debate on substance is closed. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1772	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1778	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1786	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the introduction of a mother’s quota of the same duration as the father’s quota in order to reserve the rights of mother and father to an equal proportion of the post-natal period. This is introduced by reserving each mother and father’s allowance of 10 weeks in a flexible parental leave model of 68 weeks in total.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1810	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to amend laws and regulations to give both parents equal rights to parental leave, including equal rights of withdrawal and parental right to parental leave in the event of a breach of life’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose a simplification of legislation on the withdrawal of parental carcass.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development of a network solution for parental withdrawals from the parental leave period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1837	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals allowing a free distribution of the entire parental leave period.’ Here, the Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1915	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1928	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e1942	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2114	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2124	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2416	During the debate, Mr Bekkevold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for the introduction of an anti-slavery day in Norway.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2429	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2446	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Borghild Tenden, on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 3, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. All the proposals have been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the social instruments at schools, inter alia by implementing a national stepping up of the health care services.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2474	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the police to obtain written consent from students before carrying out any anti-personal drug action at schools.’ The President shall draw attention to the fact that the proposal has been distributed in an amended form. After notification of the aid, the President shall consider the proposal to be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2489	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the implementation of prevention measures using drug dogs, good information and dialogue must be provided to ensure that prevention visits are carried out within the rules applicable to them, and are strictly separated from the screening of pupils and their assets where there are grounds for suspicion by law. It is assumed that the same legal certainty applies to students as to all others.» The President shall draw attention to the fact that the proposal has been submitted after the statutory deadline for its submission, but if there are no objections, the President will nevertheless refer it to voting. Has the Left notified that they support the proposal? Left's done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2530	During the debate, Mr Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the appointment of a new Vulnerability Selection by model of the 1999 Vulnerability Selection, with a particular focus on telecommunications and the mains’.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2544	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2557	In Case No: 10 and 11 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2566	The case concerns the second reading of the law on changes in the law on social security. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-10.ana.ud1985e2580	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
