ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e65	The representatives of Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Oskar J. Grimstad, Ivar Kristiansen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Torgeir Tjäldal, Hadia Tajik, Sonja Mandt, Per Arne Olsen and Vigdis Giltun, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative Henning Skumsvoll from 26 March onwards and until further notice from the Working Party on sick leave for the representative Jorod Asphjell from 26 March onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Workers' Party on leave for the representative Torfin Opheim from 26 March until 30 March to attend as an observer for the Nordic Council of the West Norwegian Council Thematic Conference on Greenland On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the West Agder State: Tor Sigbjørn Aussogn 26 March and until further notice For the Rogaland State: Laila Thorsen 26-29. March For South-Trundellag County: Knut Tomb Rook March 26th and until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e141	Tor Sigbjørn Utsognogn, Laila Thorsen and Knut Gravrök are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 23 March 2012: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 23 March 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 11 a.m. is determined: the Council of State Erik Solheim and the Council of State Tora Aasland are dismissed from office as members of the King's Council from 23 March 2012 at 3:00 p.m. Parliamentary representative Bård Vegar Solhjell is appointed State Council and will take over from 23 March 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 15.00 responsibility for managing the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Councillor Kristin Halvorsen takes over from 23 March 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 3 p.m. The responsibility for running the entire Department of Knowledge. Parliamentary Representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen is appointed to the Council of State and will take over from 23 March 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 15.00 responsibility for managing the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. Parliamentary representative Heikki Holmås is appointed to the Council of State and will take over from 23 March 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 3 p.m. in charge of development matters in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The rank of members of the Government is determined. The following State Secretaries shall be appointed by courtesy from 23 March 2012 at 1 p.m. 15.00: State Secretary Henriette Westhrin for State Council Kristin Halvorsen for Children, Equality and Inclusion Ministry of State Secretary Heidi Sørensen for State Council Erik Solheim for Environmental Protection State Secretary Ingrid Fisa for State Council Erik Solheim for Development Affairs State Secretary Church Lekve for State Council Tora Aasland State Secretary Lubna Jaffery for State Council Anniken Huitfeldt The following is hereby appointed State Secretary from 23 March 2012 at 15.00: State Secretary Heidi Sørensen as State Secretary for State Council Board Vegar Solhjell State Secretary Church Lekke as State Secretary for Council Kristin Halvorsen State Secretary Ingrid Fisaa as State Secretary for Council Heikki Holmå State Secretary Henriette Westhrin as State Secretary for Council No Marte Thorkildsen Department Director Ahmad Ghanizadeh as State Secretary for Council No Marte Thorkildsen.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. National Councils shall entail the following changes in the composition of the Grand Duchy: The first alternate for Akershus and Vestfold counties respectively, Rannveig Kvifte Andresen and Lars Egeland, and the third alternate for Oslo, Mari Lund Arnem, take the seat as representatives of the time representatives Bård Vegar Solhjell, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Heikki Holmås are members of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e197	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e214	It is now almost three years since the brutal conflict in Sri Lanka ceased. While there is every reason to rejoice that the war has ended, the way it happened is morally reprehensible and contrary to an abundance of international laws and several of Sri Lanka's own laws. Sri Lanka is now a post-war country, but not a post-conflict country. That is almost exclusively the responsibility of the government of Colombo. Let me briefly show you how merciless the warfare was. According to the United Nations Panel of Experts, 40,000 people were killed in the final phase of the war and 300,000 Tamils were interned behind barbed wire after the end of the war. The majority debated Sri Lanka less than a year ago. There was also an interpellation debate initiated by me, but at the time was the theme Norwegian follow-up of the UN report Accountability in Sri Lanka. An important part of the follow-up was the meeting of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva just days ago. Here a resolution was adopted, among others. requires increased reconciliation on the island between the majority, the mercenaries, and the minority of the island, the Tamils. In addition, the resolution calls for a credible investigation of the allegations of human rights violations. First of all, a few words about the resolution. It's important. Let me use the words of an Indian newspaper: ‘The UNHRC resolution is proof that the international community disapproves ‘the amount in which the Rajapaksa government is addressing the fallout of its Armageddon moment of mid-May 2009’.» And on the other hand, «The resolution is the first sign that «the world will not let itself be guided solo by Sri Lankan claims that it has the will to carry out out its own test. It also means that general prodding and quiet diplomacy will not be the main means the world will adopt towards the island nation.» The resolution states that it is also an international issue that Sri Lanka deals with international laws and obligations and prosecutes them, on both sides, who have committed war crimes and human rights violations. But as we discussed a year ago, the difference between the two sides is striking. On the Tamil side, almost all the leaders are dead, many of them probably liquidated, but on the government side, those who led the war are still in their prominent positions as President, Minister of Defence, etc. It shows how difficult it is to get the government of Colombo to conduct a neutral investigation of what actually took place of war crimes and violations of human rights during the Civil War and after the military victory. Sri Lanka has a history like democracy, but the way the country raised the mood in its own opinion during the resolution process, doesn't remind us much about it. In the strong campaign staged by Sri Lanka to prevent a decision, there was no escape from attacking both human rights activists and journalists for their work. This is not worthy of democracy, so there is every reason to ask whether the country is any longer a functioning democracy. Here, too, the government has the primary responsibility of Rajapaksa. The vote in the UN Human Rights Council must be interpreted as compromising the endless promises and actions of President Rajapaksa for the opposite. The Indian contribution to the adoption of the resolution was most gratifying. Let me also say that I am pleased that Norway had a clear voice during the vote itself, but even more important in the work ahead. The Minister of Foreign Affairs should be commended for that. I think it's a matter of course, but it doesn't make the rose any less. An important part of my interaction is the government of Colombo's own documents, both the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission, LLC, and the National Action Plan for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights 2011–2016. I'm going to start with the positive sides. Both documents have important points of local and regional autonomy, but they must not be interpreted as autonomy for individual regions or equivalent. They have land rights, compensation for victims/survivors and demilitarisation. These are all important contributions that need to be implemented. And our answer in this debate must be that Norway is following up on what is being done, and will hold Sri Lanka responsible for following up its own promises and international commitments. Unfortunately, the list of errors, deficiencies and problems in the two reports is much longer. So I choose to focus on a few areas. I see both reports as being written primarily for an international audience and with the desire to show that Sri Lanka needs neither help nor interference in what they see as purely domestic policy considerations. It is maintained that Sri Lanka does not tolerate torture. It stands in stark contrast to a sea of various evidence of the opposite, including the evidence of the UN Committee Against Torture, CAT. The composition of the National Action Plan was a clean shell cover. Several prominent members of the academic, independent and civil society were members of the eight-year-old committee for drafting. They submitted a draft, and after that they had no effect on the rest of the document, including the final document. In LLRC, the military is completely cleaned for doing something wrong during the war and in time after the military victor. There is still a strong contrast to the evidence available. Now, as in the debate one year ago, there are two different tracks that need to be pursued. The short term is that Sri Lanka has to stop breaking human rights. Both Amnesty and Human Rights Watch say that the situation is getting worse and not better, and just a few days ago, people were ordered to the streets to protest against the UN Human Rights Council resolution process. The report to the United Nations panel of experts must be followed up in concrete terms and not just with promises and words. There must be full transparency about the prosecution of war crimes and violations of human rights and of LTTE supporters and soldiers. It includes immediate publication of the names of those imprisoned. Here, too, is the big issue of criminal prosecution on the government side. I have no faith, at all, that Rajapaksa and his government will do anything to really investigate themselves or their closest, and then punish them for gross violations both of war crimes and of human rights. For this reason, I believe that Norway and the international community should seek broad support for the appointment of an international criminal court for Sri Lanka. The most important thing is the political process of peace and reconciliation. I started by saying that Sri Lanka is post-war, but not post-conflict. Without political negotiations, compromises and agreements, the conflict will continue. That is the responsibility of the President and his government. An international press is needed here, and last week's resolution was an important signal. It is also a recognition that Norway can contribute to the forums we are present. Let me also add that the pressure would have much greater impact if it had also included China. But once again, we see an unrelenting Chinese attitude regarding the view of human rights, and also the Chinese desire never to interfere with the internal affairs of states for fear of what it will mean on a domestic political arena in China. I hope what is remembered from this debate is that only reconciliation and political solutions can lead to lasting peace. That is why negotiations must be at the top of the agenda, including the Norwegian agenda, for and against Sri Lanka.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e269	It is commendable that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark again addresses the question of the war on Sri Lanka and the question of possible crimes committed in the final phase of the war. In my article I want to focus on three important aspects in this context: How does Norway view the situation in the country now? The examination of possible war crimes by both parties in the final phase of the war, and Norway’s assessment of the country report to which the representative referred, Sri Lanka’s Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission. How Norway handled the Sri Lanka case during the recent session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva. After the end of the 30-year war in 2009, there has been a positive development in the situation of the heavily tried and tested civilian population in Sri Lanka. It is the end of acts of war and terrorist attacks, and the humanitarian situation has improved considerably. The vast majority of internally displaced persons are out of refugee camps. There has been a positive development in the release of former LTTE members and a major reconstruction of the country is in progress. At the same time, real reconciliation and a political solution remain, as the inter-pellant has pointed out. Sri Lanka's government is negotiating with the largest minority coalition in the opposition, the Tamil National Alliance. However, negotiations are slow and have limited progress. It is disappointing that we have not come any further in this work for a political solution that is also well cared for by the minority, now almost three years after the end of the war. From the Norwegian side, we believe that a political solution is essential for the minorities of the country. The foundation is already well on the way in a previously adopted additional article to the institution, the 13th additional article, which deals with the division of power within a united Sri Lanka. The President and Government of Sri Lanka today have a solid majority behind them in Parliament. This position gives the country's leadership a unique opportunity to find a political solution. Norway and the wider international community now expect Sri Lanka’s government to use this opportunity to launch a policy solution that is also acceptable to Sri Lanka’s minorities. The situation of human rights and freedom of expression remains worrying. The number of disappearances and arbitrary arrests is alarming. The free public debate in Sri Lanka has also not improved since the end of the war. Sri Lanka has fallen even further on the press freedom index of Reporters Without Borders since last year, to a 163rd place of 185 countries. It's a long way down. It is critical that human rights defenders were subjected to undue pressure and harassment in connection with the recent meeting, as the representative also pointed out. The second major question concerns the investigation of possible war crimes committed by both parties in the final phase of the war. The Secretary-General of the United Nations reduced, as is known, a panel recommending that an independent investigation be carried out. Norway supported the recommendations of the panel. The main challenge in the follow-up to the panel’s recommendation concerns the question of who is to carry out such an independent investigation. Sri Lanka is not associated with the International Criminal Court in The Hague, ICC. Nor has the UN Security Council been willing to refer the matter to this court. It is therefore not possible to investigate and prosecute the ICC. An alternative could be the creation of an independent investigation commission, possibly an adhoc criminal court. However, it would only be here that the Security Council can give a mandate to such a Commission or court if Sri Lanka opposes it with binding effect. Thus, according to the current legal situation, the only possible option is to maintain the pressure on Sri Lanka to fulfil their obligation under international law to conduct a national investigation and criminal prosecution of possible war crimes in the final phase of the war. In May 2010, Sri Lanka’s President appointed his own Commission, as the interpellant mentioned, the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission. It was given a mandate of four points: to examine why the 2002 Armistice Agreement broke down if individuals, institutions or groups bear direct or indirect responsibility for the collapse of the Armistice Agreement, what can be learned in order to avoid the identification of similar in the future of institutional, administrative or legislative measures to prevent similar events and to ensure reconciliation between all the country's peoples; In my view, the Commission's report provides a very good analysis of the causes of the conflict and recognises the injustices committed against the Tamil minority. The report recommends that a number of reconciliation measures be implemented in the fields of education, language policy, culture and religion. The Commission addresses the concerns expressed by the population of the north about the change in population composition and wishes to strengthen civil administration and reduce military involvement in civil activities. This is a positive move. The Commission further points out, as Norway agrees, that it is important to focus attention on the victims of the conflict, to recognise the suffering suffered by the population, and to identify the number of civilians killed during the war. The report strongly criticises the authorities for violations of human rights, disappearances, violations of freedom of expression and difficult working conditions for journalists. The Commission also recognises that the human rights situation is still serious three years after the war. The Commission calls for the investigation of incidents such as violations of freedom of expression and the prosecution of those responsible. The report states that civilians were killed as a result of government warfare, and that they were shot at hospitals. At the same time, it points out that this was not intended. It is established that the military shots entered what was to be safe zones, but this is explained by the fact that the soldiers were in a difficult situation, since they themselves were shot by LTTE inside from the same zone. It is my opinion that this report provides a basis for Sri Lanka to continue working with reconciliation and political solution. It also has important recommendations in the field of human rights and in relation to the investigation of possible infringements of international humanitarian law. However, the Commission has not sufficiently examined the many allegations of war crimes and violations of humanitarian law in the final phase of the war, as the United Nations panel lists in its report. Now the mandate of this Commission was not correct. The Government of Sri Lanka must therefore closely follow up and implement the recommendations contained in the Commission’s report and, in addition, carry out an independent investigation. So when the interpellant asks if the government wants to get behind a demand for such a review, the answer is a clear yes. Our position is that the claims made in the report of the United Nations Panel are very serious. Like a number of other countries, Norway believes that the Government of Sri Lanka must follow the recommendations of the United Nations Panel of Experts on the independent examination of the allegations of war crimes and violations of international humanitarian law by both parties in the final phase of the war. It is very important that the allegations of crimes are investigated both by the authorities and by the LTTE. Norway has also been aware that a credible review of the final phase of the war will be crucial for the future attitude of the international community towards Sri Lanka, and not least for the reconciliation of the country. A third side of the interpellation concerns Norwegian follow-up to the UN Human Rights Council. Norway has been a co-sponsor of a resolution adopted by the Human Rights Council on 22 March, i.e. last week. It calls on Sri Lanka to implement the recommendations of the LLRC Commission, to follow up possible violations of international humanitarian law and to establish an action plan for follow-up. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and other UN Special Representatives is asked to provide advice and technical assistance to implement such a plan. The resolution was adopted by 24 votes to 15, with 8 abstentions last Thursday. The resolution had support from all Western countries, most Latin American countries and a number of African countries. As the representative pointed out, it is particularly positive that India voted in favour. India is an important actor in the Sri Lanka question and their support gives considerable weight to this resolution. The resolution is therefore a clear signal that the international community cares, and that the Human Rights Council comes up with constructive decisions in demanding matters. The resolution is important because it stresses the need for Sri Lanka to comply with its obligations under international law. It means that the Human Rights Council will discuss the situation in Sri Lanka during the spring session in March 2013, based on a report by the High Commissioner for Human Rights. I believe it was important that Norway supported this resolution in order to encourage Sri Lanka to carry out credible investigations of possible violations of international humanitarian law in the final phase of the war. The resolution also expresses the view that the international community is now expecting Sri Lanka to come up with a political solution that respects the rights of minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e343	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the clear and good response to the interpellation. I would also like to express my clear support for the reality that the Foreign Minister has – I fully share it. That's -- the way I evaluate it -- positive and negative things. The most negative at the moment is the worsening human rights situation in Sri Lanka. This is particularly true in relation to the role of journalists and the media in Sri Lanka, the possibility of providing an alternative message to what the government through its media-dominated channels expresses. The second concerns the civil space, which also includes human rights activists. They perceive that their ability to be in opposition to the regime is getting smaller and smaller, the space is getting tighter and tighter. The second is what I think is the most important and most important, namely negotiations. The negotiations are – as I assess it – in almost complete standstill. There is very little happening, and there is very little willingness to get real compromises and discuss the most prominent and most important issues. Without the launch of negotiations with a willingness to compromise, the conflict will continue. There is now a lot of evidence that the government of Rajapaksse sees it as being in their interest to continue this standstill, because they were the military victors. Then they completely forget – and again I believe that it is now also shared by Indian politicians and Indian opinionators – that the deterioration that has taken place, both in relation to democracy and human rights, is the government's own work and problems. I have no problems joining the positive sides: End of war acts, cessation of terrorist actions – this is unusually positive – and an improved humanitarian situation for large parts of the island, almost the whole island. There is also a very large economic growth, although growth is very unevenly distributed, and there is no doubt that it is a desire of the government to give economic benefits to part of its own. So that's the issue of ownership and the question of forced displacement. It's again quite central and clear human rights violations, when you're thrown away from countries you've had for generations, and forced displacement takes place. But again, I believe that the most important thing Norway can contribute to the forums we are present is to talk up and forward negotiations and the will and willingness of the compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e362	We had a good debate on this last year, so we're not going to repeat it all. I think we agree with that view that the war has ended, but it remains to win the long lasting peace. We can point out how the civilian population is not now plagued by a sustained war and atrocities. I believe that our call to the Sri Lankan authorities should be a mix of encouragement and strong message to take responsibility seriously, because it may now be – both politically and in many ways – a window where it is possible to negotiate on the remaining minority issues and which is not resolved by the choice of arms by the parties and not by politics. As previous debates here have shown, in the last decade there was a hope that a ceasefire could lead to a peaceful solution through negotiations. So it didn't happen. It's part of the story. I believe that, on the Norwegian side, we will be principled in relation to what is the international obligations of a state. A country has obligations to carry out thorough audits and to draw conclusions. We're going to follow that up in the international bodies as it is. We are going to encourage and support Sri Lanka to take this seriously itself, and also to follow in our bilateral relations with Sri Lanka on how they are now developing the internal dialogue on the island. As the representative pointed out, it is through such negotiations that these fundamental questions can be resolved. I want from this pulpit to say that the Human Rights Council was in action last week. We have just learned that during this session there were quite strong threats and harassment of human rights defenders in Sri Lanka. In media, blogs and in some contexts, MR champions are described as traitors. I think it's important to take a very clear distance from this. Civil society in Sri Lanka has a very important role to play in defending human rights and democracy, and Norway will closely monitor the situation of MR defenders in the future. It's also a priority part of our human rights policy in general. Here we have an example where it is important for us to do so, having close contact with related countries. There is no doubt that the authorities also have a responsibility here to protect the MR fighters. There's also something we know that MR champions are having a hard time in a situation where freedom of expression is under pressure. The numbers that I showed instead of Sri Lanka's place on that list further help us to be aware from the outside of the position of human rights defenders. Behind every such brave human being, it hides itself very, very many other people like what this activist stands for. Therefore, it will have Norway’s focus in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e375	First, I would like to commend the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark for once again raising the question of war crimes against the Tamils and other parts of the civilian population in the spring of 2009, during the final phase of the civil war that led to the fall of the Tamils. I would also like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs who says a clear yes to the question of whether the government will support the demand for independent scrutiny, because the allegations in the report of the United Nations panel of experts are very serious. Therefore, the Government of Sri Lanka must carry out an independent investigation of war crimes committed by both parties. It is difficult to achieve reconciliation between individuals and Tamils without such scrutiny, and reconciliation is a prerequisite for a lasting political solution – a solution that preserves the cultural identity of minorities and puts an end to the discrimination that Tamils have been subjected to ever since independence from the United Kingdom. The Tamils lost their jobs and were severely discriminated against in the first years after their independence. Ceylon eventually went to Sri Lanka, but Sri Lanka is a Sinhala name, which the Tamils did not support at the time. The official language is also Sinhala. It's, I think, also hard to understand the conflict without understanding how different the two languages are, and how different the two groups are. It is important that what happened in Sri Lanka in the spring of 2009, does not go into the forgotten book, with a war that developed after the truce was broken in 2008. We remember pictures from the media, how the government forces pushed the LTTE guerrilla into a corner, and how the Tamil civilian population was captured inside the battlefields. We have many Tamils in Norway. They're a very well integrated group in our country. I was among those who followed them very closely three years ago, and I think it is important that we have contact with the Tamils also in the future. It is also important that the world community does not forget what happened. No mercy was shown from the Government of Sri Lanka. Nobody got into the area – not health workers, not food supplies, not medicines. It says a lot about the then situation that the International Red Cross on January 27, 2009 saw the need to withdraw its aid workers from the war zone. Neither did the media get in. The war between the government forces and the Tamil tigers ended on 18 May 2009. It is estimated that around 40,000 civilians lost their lives only between January and May of that year. The Tamils continue to be subjected to surveillance and repression, and people disappear, among other things. in the case of arbitrary imprisonment. It's also important, I think, that the international community is asking the government of Sri Lanka to stop the extinction of Tamil culture. As both Skovholt Gitmark and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have underlined, Norway was the co-rapporteur for a resolution adopted by the UN Human Rights Council on 22 March this year. The resolution was given a clear majority. I agree that it was important for India to vote in favour. It is important not just in the region, but it is important because India has had a role in Sri Lanka for many years. The resolution expresses the view that Sri Lanka is now expected to arrive at a political solution that respects the rights of minorities. As the representative of Skovholt Gitmark said, Sri Lanka is in a post-war situation, but not in a post-conflict situation yet. Without political negotiations, the conflict will continue, I am afraid. The Foreign Minister said it is important to win the long peace. Yes, that's important, and it's absolutely necessary, but then the Sinhala, or Sri Lankan, government – it's probably both – must be prepared to have negotiations on peace. In particular, the international community must maintain pressure against the Government of Sri Lanka.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e394	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting Sri Lanka's case on the agenda again. The conflict in Sri Lanka was both bloody and violent. Thousands of children became orphans, hundreds of thousands of women became widows, men were slaughtered for feet. Therefore, of course, it was good, after nearly 30 years of ethnic war and conflict, that the war itself ended in May 2009, but, as the inter-pellant is also involved, the conflict did not end. Since May 2009 and the ceasefire in Sri Lanka, something positive has happened. But unfortunately, not everything is like it should be there. Of course, peace is a good thing, and the government of Sri Lanka has made its own report on learning. The reconciliation report is a positive move, but it may seem somewhat one-sided. But that's a starting point. There is little doubt in reports prepared by organisations such as UN Watch and Amnesty International that serious war crimes were committed on both sides, and that an independent international commission should be given to investigate what actually happened in the years of war and conflict in Sri Lanka. Because you look at internal conflicts in other countries, you have to settle what happened, and you have to punish those responsible. If you don't, the conflict is hanging like a frozen conflict, and reconciliation can be a very heavy and difficult way to go, not to say almost impossible. That's why it was good that the UN Human Rights Council at its last meeting on Thursday actually decided to support a resolution that is on an examination of what happened in Sri Lanka in the last days of the war, and that more is being done to start the reconciliation process. But the Progress Party is just as happy as everyone else to hear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs supports an internationally independent investigation commission, and we also support the inter-pellant in this. I am also very pleased that Norway was clear in the UN Human Rights Council. I had a meeting with the Global Tamil Forum on Thursday last week, and the picture they drew was far from merry. The situation of the many Tamils living north of Sri Lanka is very difficult. Widows after the war have to live from hand to mouth – and then we're talking about 98,000 warheads, who don't get any pension from the state, but have to take care of themselves. This can be a very difficult situation for many people. They are also refugees in their own country. Had it not been for private donors to help these women get started with small businesses that make them self-righteous, there would actually have been no future for these women. I also asked about the situation of the many thousand orphans, and the situation is not better for them. They're either held in some kind of camp, or they have to do the best they can. It goes without saying that trafficking in human beings, violence and abuse against these children take place daily. Nor do they get any kind of health care to process the trauma they have suffered by seeing their parents killed. Regardless of who's responsible for what, the children are also the future of Sri Lanka and those who may have the opportunity to build a reconciliation society in Sri Lanka. That's why it's important that the children, including the traumatized and the injured, are seen and cared for, especially after a conflict in which so many lives were lost. That is why it is also important and right for the UN Human Rights Council to present this resolution now. It is urgent to ensure that peace remains permanent, and to give both sides of the conflict an opportunity to move forward and create a future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e411	Thank you to interpellant Skovholt Gitmark for presenting a very important matter, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his excellent contributions. The war in Sri Lanka was cruel and inhuman, and we all followed the final phase as it began. I think it's hard to get involved in the suffering an innocent civilian population was exposed to, especially in the final phase of the war. As the interpellant was inside, up to 300,000 civilian displaced and/or detained, and many, many thousands of innocent people may have been killed. The suffering in many ways has not ended too many of the people who have been affected. The reports of leading human rights organisations are very clear on the human rights violations committed. The minorities of Sri Lanka and the rest of the population are victims of human rights violations and of serious restrictions on freedom of expression. Politically, one is far away from a solution, and the work is too slow. Any arrests are common. Not least, the Sri Lankan authorities have not so far followed up the recommendations of the United Nations panel of experts on independent review of war crimes and violations of humanitarian law committed in the final phase of the war. The fourth Geneva Convention was in place to protect the civilian population in war, with the horrors of World War II as a backstop. It is difficult to underestimate the importance of such international legislation. The same can be said about the Geneva Conventions on Other Rights and Human Rights, which in modern times have gone from being an ideal to being codified in very many countries and becoming a completely concrete piece of legislation that the world's country is increasingly committed to following. Nevertheless, weakening the position of humanitarian law and the Geneva Conventions is something we have seen more examples of in our time. In the fight against it one can define itself as an illegitimate struggle or as terrorism, for example. be both tempting and close to laying down different rules and principles than would be done in more classic, regular, intergovernmental conflicts. But it's not right to do that. Whether or not war is taking place in a civil war situation or otherwise, the same limits should obviously be set and respect for human rights maintained. When there are no consequences when these principles are waived, it represents a very dangerous development. The power can't be fooled. In a modern world, it cannot be that masters alone write history. We are many who remember the despair of our Tamil-Norwegian people, many of whom have been involved. I myself was one – among very many – who participated in markings and appeals for a political solution to the conflict. In particular, the Tamil youth in Norway was very active and well organised. There was no political solution to the conflict. That's why it's all the more important that we get a fair political solution in retrospect. Then there are many who need answers to the questions and reports of human rights violations and war crimes. Without a response, without processing and without a recognition of what has happened, you cannot go on. Human rights must be respected in Sri Lanka. The judiciary and police services must be for the entire population and raise the confidence of the entire population. It's a long way from today. Sri Lanka must make seven miles for freedom of the press. Lasantha Wickrematungung is just one of a lot of journalists who have been killed on Sri Lanka for their work since 2006. Sri Lanka has a long way to go. They need clear and clear pressure from the international community, including Norway. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so clear on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e432	Let me first thank interpellant Peter Skovholt Gitmark for taking up the situation in Sri Lanka, so that now, one year after the last time, we have a new opportunity to make a statement. Thanks also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a clear and clear Norwegian speech. It's important. I think it's being noticed for a lot of reasons what kind of message comes from Oslo. Nearly three years after the civil war in Sri Lanka ended with a crushing military defeat for the Tamil tigers, the situation can be summed up as follows: It is a pleasure that the war and the violence nightmare are over. It is inconceivably sad that reconciliation and reform are going so slowly. In short, there is a long way to go until peace is not only the absence of war, but also a positive social state in which former opponents build the country in trustful cooperation. The war disaster could have been avoided. The Sri Lankan authorities should do more to find compromise solutions that could build confidence. The leadership of the Tamils made a fateful mistake when they converted the political justice struggle of the Tamils into a military struggle for their own state. The result was a crushing defeat. The Tamils have had to pay the highest price. After the defeat, large parts of the Tamil population were sent to detention camps. The great majority were innocent civilians. Today, most people are finally released, but those who belonged to the hard core of the gills are identified and kept locked up. After the end of the war, the world community has called for reconciliation. The UN Secretary-General has been given a panel of experts to investigate whether violations of international law were committed during the course of the war. The evidence of this seems to many. The government of Colombo finally agreed to set up a reconciliation commission called the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission. Last December, the final report came. It was very deficient. The U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs summed it up this way: although for the first time the report notes numerous civilian victims, it fails to take a critical settlement with the human rights violations in the final phase of the war. There is now a growing demand for an international review of the allegations of war crimes and humanitarian abuses. Both the inter-pellant, the Foreign Minister and a number of speakers have referred to the UN Human Rights Council resolution requiring Sri Lanka to do more to reconcile with its Tamil minority. It calls for a credible review of the allegations of human rights violations during the Civil War, and was adopted – with Norway's support, with India's strategic support, and in violation of the campaign of Sri Lanka's government in Geneva and other cities around the world. We now need a balanced examination of alleged abuses from both sides, but we see instead a decay to one-sidedness. The authorities focus on the terror and violence of the Tamil tigers, there may undoubtedly be evidence for this. Tamil activists focus on government brutal warfare and assault, especially in the final battles. There is no doubt that there is evidence of human rights violations on both sides of the civil war. In this polarization, it is not easy for the Tamils and the Singles who constantly wanted peaceful negotiated solutions without the use of violence. But they exist, and they are also found in Norway. They deserve our thanks and encouragement. We no longer need triumphant cevinism from those who won the military settlement. We don't need new conflict fixation from bitter Tamil activists who had to dream of resuming military battles for their own Tamil state. What is now needed is a constructive dialogue between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Tamil parties gathered under the umbrella of the Tamil National Alliance, TNA. The Minister of Foreign Affairs showed last year that the government of Sri Lanka had promised a political conflict resolution after the end of the war, and had hopes of the authorities' contact with the TNA alliance. But now the TNA alliance seems to have lost confidence that the government will carry out real reforms, accusing it of empty promises. There is every reason to reinforce the pressure on the government for a peace building and a reconciliation road in the time to come. It must be based on unequivocal respect for fundamental human rights. From the Christian People's Party we will continue to follow developments in Sri Lanka closely. We want Norway and the world community to actively press for political reforms that provide a fair, long-term and sustainable solution to an old conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e464	It is now nearly three years since the end of the almost 30 - year civil war in Sri Lanka. As we know, the war ended very bloodyly, when the war ended with the defeat of the Tamil tigers by the government forces. Human rights activists estimate that about 40,000 people were killed only during the last offensive against the Tamil tigers. The war cost thousands of people their lives and drove hundreds of thousands away. We witnessed a humanitarian disaster in which people lost everything they had, and many were seriously attacked. Sri Lanka has a long and difficult history. Since the country gained its independence in 1948 under the name of Ceylon and until today, there has been unrest in the country. The conflict between the Schengen majority and the Tamil minority has been very violent. In addition to human suffering, the civil war has destroyed infrastructure and hit the economy and business hard. For many years Norway has had an active policy towards Sri Lanka, both by providing assistance and in particular through the peace process that began in the late 1990s, where Norway was asked to play a role. The goal was to create lasting peace and get a political solution. Fortunately, war acts and terrorist attacks on Sri Lanka are over. The reconstruction of the country has begun, the humanitarian situation has improved considerably, and many of the internally displaced refugees are out of refugee camps. But even if there has been peace, the ethnic divisions have not diminished after the war. It is only reconciliation and a political solution that can lead to lasting peace. Sadly, it is still a long way to go until this is a reality in Sri Lanka today. The situation of human rights is very worrying. Still, people are exposed to disappearances and arrests. A UN report last year stated that both the government forces and the LTTE committed war crimes in the final phase of the civil war. In addition, a panel set up by the UN Secretary-General has recommended independent scrutiny. Although the report of the Lesson Learnt and Reconciliation Commission — as the Sri Lankan government presented last December — makes important recommendations on reconciliation measures and criticises violations of human rights, it has not sufficiently taken on board allegations of war crimes. It is therefore very gratifying that a majority of the members of the UN Human Rights Council adopted a resolution asking Sri Lanka to do more to reconcile the country's Tamil minority and that the authorities are making credible efforts to investigate allegations of human rights violations during the civil war. The resolution was adopted despite intensive lobbying against it by the Sri Lankan authorities. It is particularly important – as many have said – that India voted in favour of the resolution. The resolution is just a first step in a settlement of the past and against necessary reconciliation. It is important that the international community continues to exert pressure on the Government of Sri Lanka to investigate and prosecute possible war crimes. The international community must demand that Sri Lanka comply with the recommendation of the United Nations Panel of Experts on the independent examination of claims of war crimes and violations of humanitarian law by the parties to the final phase of the war. The Government of Sri Lanka must respect human rights and find a political solution in which the interests of minorities are also safeguarded. It assumes that the Norwegian Government will continue to play a constructive and active role in putting pressure on Sri Lanka and the international community to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e479	Norway is lucky to have many people with backgrounds from Sri Lanka living here. The majority of these are Tamils. These are people who contribute in health, academia, culture and economics, just to mention some areas. But the diaspora also has an important role to play. Diaspora has a role to play in peace and reconciliation. Diaspora has a role to play in saying that the struggle for independence is over – now it's about finding political compromises, about being involved and being involved in building lasting peace. There is great respect for the many thousands of Norwegian Tamils who send money home to their families, to organizations and to others in Sri Lanka. This is an important contribution for those receiving. Together with this, there are many moderate voices in the Tamil environment here in Norway, and I want even more voices from the Tamil environment in Norway and abroad – worldwide – saying that now it is about living together. Now, as the representative Højbrätten said, it's about building the country together – for everyone. Now it is about creating economic growth that everyone in Sri Lanka has to be able to build institutions for the best of all. This will never happen without the political will of both parties, but above all of Rajapaksa's government itself. If the government of Rajapaksa continues its policy – to be satisfied with having won the war – the political situation will prevail on the island. I must also, in my closing statement, bring forward the situation to which both journalists and human rights defenders are exposed. This is not a situation to be found in democracies, and if Sri Lanka is still to be able to use the honorary term 'democracy' about itself, they must do so because democracy is real and not just in its name. This means that everything needs to be arranged from choice to working institutions, and not least you have to trust everyone who lives in society, and put both human rights champions and journalists into a democratic context. So a great thank you to everyone who has participated in this debate and in previous debates. I feel that there is a good debate every time we move on to Sri Lanka, and that there is a cross-political desire for Norway to contribute to a positive development in Sri Lanka. I would like to sum up that the Storting is unanimous in a desire for a balanced and credible review of what has taken place during the war and in the final phase of the war, and that we are all working for a negotiated and political solution to Sri Lanka.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e495	I will join the thank you that the interpellant gave, and I will also join those who have thanked the interpellant because he has put this theme on the agenda several times. I agree that there is a broad, common approach in this room. I would also like to join in the last inter-pellant speech on the recognition of those from Sri Lanka who live in Norway, who are participating, who contribute. In terms of integration, this is actually a part of our population that's doing the best with it, all over the country, under natural environments that are quite radically different from what they've grown up with. So I think we can express that here. That is why the reason why we are debating this issue in this room – about an island deep in the Indian Ocean – is that there are both some fundamental issues that we are concerned about, and also that there are some strong human ties. Both are important for policy. I am concerned that we shall not be associated with anyone who raises moral index fingers against and sits raised in relation to Sri Lanka. This is a country we want close relationships with, close dialogue and a lot of contact with, in order to be in good exchange. I have noticed that, after what happened in Geneva, Sri Lanka's PR minister threatened to tear down the limbs of MR activists and journalists who have betrayed the country during their stay in Geneva. This is brutal speech from a minister. But it is also worth noting that the country's foreign minister condemned this play as unacceptable. So here it's important that when he asks the international community not to take this statement as an expression of its official policy, we take note of it, and it's important that it is said. Let's also try to encourage and give recognition to the good things that are happening, and to be in close contact with the authorities and with civil society in that area. Finally, when you observe Sri Lanka from the outside, it is worth noting that the president and the government today have a solid majority, and I will end by saying that we hope this majority will be used for the unique opportunity this is to find reconciliation and a political solution. Norway and the wider international community expect and hope that the Government of Sri Lanka will use this opportunity to launch a policy solution acceptable to Sri Lanka’s minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e508	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e524	Putin is once again elected President of Russia. For some, it is simply so that many expectations are thus extinguished. However, we must deal with the fact, with faith and optimism in the fact that the Russian people want development, economic prosperity, freedom and democracy, in the same way that we do. There will of course be different perceptions of what is most important in Norwegian foreign and security policy. However, there is a great deal to suggest that in the years to come, Norway can and should play an even greater role in our northern areas, including our seas of hops and cooperation with Russia, not on its own. Nevertheless, this is our neighbourhood and an area that, for various reasons, receives greater and greater international attention. Keywords in this context are, of course, oil, gas, fisheries, minerals, northern sea routes, search and rescue preparedness, climate, environment, defence and security policies and, in particular, increased people-to-people cooperation. If development is to take place in an expected direction, our Russia policy must be developed. Although Russia has just elected a new president, who rhetorically played in the election campaign on classical West-fear, there is little doubt that the climate for developing cooperation in the north must be declared as good, and that both countries clearly see that cooperation brings benefits. If people on both sides of the border are to feel secure and at the same time see physical results of political agreements and objectives, new steps must be taken. I say this in full assurance that the cooperation has delivered good results so far. The figures for increased traffic across the Storskog border station show, among other things: This. However, it is now important that Norway clearly promote the premises and targets of the coming decades towards the Russians and to the same extent towards our other neighbours in the Barents region. The time for the vast Russian suspicion, and the coverage of facts in some cases, should now be over. But on 29 December last year the news of a fire appeared on the Russian nuclear submarine “Jekaterinburg”. The submarine was in a dry dock in Murmansk on the yard of Roslyakov, loaded with weapons on board, including long - range nuclear rockets. Neither the population of Murmansk nor Norwegian authorities was notified. This was a frightening and serious incident just 10 miles from the Norwegian border. Although the Russian authorities subsequently assured that there had not been radioactive emissions from ‘Jekaterinburg’, the events gave strong and scary memories of the Chernobyl disaster. It was equally serious that Murmansk's own people were not alerted either. Our alert agreement with Russia, which should have been in place immediately, turned out to be zero. County of Gunnar Kjønnøy in Finnmark did not receive any notice, and he said among other things. to NTB: ‘We have a memorandum signed between Murmansk, Lapland, Norrbotn, Nordland, Troms and Finnmark which should mean that we were notified at regional level. Now that we have not received any notice, the agreement does not work according to the intention we have all made to the agreement, [[...]] I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on this incident specifically and explain how Norway has addressed the incident with the Russian authorities, in particular with the background in the text drawn from the North Sea Communication, which we have to deal with in the Committee, where the government writes the following: ‘The nuclear safety cooperation has an important place in Norway’s cooperation with Russia. At the same time, this is important in order to ensure health and the environment in Norway. It is an example of the pragmatic, constructive and targeted cooperation that characterises our relationship with Russia." In addition, it says: ‘This cooperation has contributed to reducing the risk of nuclear accidents and radioactive pollution in our neighbourhoods.’ Romjula's incident has well shown that there is a significant distance between words and action in our contract work on at least this area with Russia. So I'm going to go over to the question of Russian strategic nuclear weapons. The number of strategic nuclear weapons in Russia will be slightly reduced as a result of the new START agreement. However, there are a number of strategic nuclear weapons in land silos that will be reduced. In the case of strategic nuclear weapons on board submarines stationed on the Kola peninsula, there will be no reductions. There are today seven Delta IV submarines with such nuclear weapons; these will be operating for at least another 15 years. In addition, there are new strategic submarines under construction in the Borei class, which will eventually also become part of the North Fleet, on the Kola coast. In other words, the neighbourhoods of Norway in the years to come are becoming more strategically important for Russia and not the opposite. In addition, there is an unknown number of tactical nuclear weapons in the Kola Peninsula. These are stored in a town called Olenogorsk 2 and in depots at the marinas. Tactical nuclear weapons are not covered by armaments agreements. That's why we don't know the exact number, but there's reason to believe that between 500 and 1,000 such tactical weapons are in stock on the Kola Peninsula. Tactical nuclear weapons are primarily intended for use in tactical battles in neighbouring areas. It is therefore unthinkable that Russia has such nuclear weapons so close to the Norwegian border. This is not about good will or bad will, and we know that a single accident can mean a fatal accident. If we're not looking at being a good neighbor, we have to be able to ask the Russians. Can anyone really imagine that such weapons are being used in a regional conflict in the north? No, at least it's my answer. Therefore, it must be a Norwegian requirement that Russia at least withdraw these weapons to stocks further into Russia. Russia has central stocks of withdrawn tactical nuclear weapons south of Siberia. It is very important that Norway clearly informs us that we do not want or think it is okay that such weapons are present in our neighbourhoods. In the practical political everyday life, we see that Swedes and Finns also have an active Russian policy, where the overall objective is increased interaction and development. Sweden as well as Finland are among others increased mineral and mining activities in the north. Both neighbouring countries have industrial ambitions in the north that can obviously create synergies, including in Norway and Russia. Transport development is a key word for developing the Barents region and making this part of the northern regions more competitive. The Russians are today Europe's most travelling people. We meet Russians at holiday destinations all over the world. If we compare ourselves with Finland, we can without fail establish that Finland has facilitated both Russian tourism and investment. Very much indicates that Norway has a much stricter visa practice than Finland in relation to the Russian border. In this picture, we see that the EU and Russia are now negotiating to improve today’s visa regime. Several refer to the strict Norwegian visa practice as an obstacle to development in the north. When the 2011 figures show that Norway had a growth in Russian visa applications from Murmansk and Arkhangelsk at 23 p.m., the Finnish growth from the same regions was 69 p.m. There are several reasons why Russians get visas to Finland more easily than to Norway. In reality, where the Norwegian-Russian Pomor Visa scheme applies to a very limited area and population, there is such a similar practice and scheme for Russia as a whole. Finns provide multi-entry visas without invitation to all Russians regardless of their residence in Russia, while Norway grants such visas to residents only in the Murman and Arkhangelsk regions. Although the reciprocal trade between Norway and Russia is very low, Norwegian fish exports to Russia have had a formidable increase. Exports to Russia are increasing most and have now passed 5 billion. Norwegian krona in the last few years, representing close to 10 pst. of Norwegian fish exports. Russia is our largest export market in volume and is now as high in value as exports to France. Norwegian fish exporters clearly demonstrate that border crossing to Russia is a significant challenge. According to industry, the opening hours of the customs station are not adapted to the increased volume of exports. The need for a 24-hour opening time at the Norwegian-Russian border is evident. The Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee also pointed this out in its comments on the 2010 State Budget – and still has not extended the time of opening the border. Nor has the capacity of the Food Authority taken into account the increase in exports. In this context, labour shortages are also a challenge in the north. The Finnish economy has long called for a more flexible system for the use of Russian labour. The examples of practical difficulties in getting better arrangements and solutions in place are many, and this is characterised by considerable impatience. It's always referred to that things take too long, which is easy to understand. If Russia's presidential elections have made this easier, it is difficult to decide now. At least it tells me that it might be more important than ever before to hold on to what you've all succeeded, at best, namely the Norwegian-Russian people-to-people cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e562	The representative of Kristiansen addresses key questions. Close cooperation with Russia in the north involves many opportunities and some challenges. We have common interests in many areas and have already developed close and practical cooperation on this very basis. The Barents and Pole Sea Demarcation and Cooperation Agreement provides the necessary clarity in important areas. It also facilitates enhanced cooperation, in particular on fisheries and energy issues. The fire on board the nuclear submarine ‘Jekaterinburg’ last December shows that we still need to focus on nuclear safety. Cooperation with Russia on nuclear safety has as its primary objective the protection of the population and the environment from radioactive contamination and the prevention of nuclear material. Much has been achieved at the same time as much remains. The event of the Christmas of space illustrated the importance of rapid and safe warnings when something occurs. Norway and Russia have an alert agreement from 1993. In 2003, our countries submitted a protocol on a lower alert threshold. This is a need we have seen for a long time, so it has also been discussed in the Nuclear Safety Commission with Russia in recent years. Let me say it very clearly: I look seriously at the event of the Rome Christmas, and I am serious about the fact that the Russian authorities did not notify us, as they have the duty to do. We have addressed this with the Russian authorities in retrospect, and we are now working together on new guidelines and procedures for alerting based on the 1993 agreement. This will be followed closely by the nuclear safety Commission in the future, and I see it as a natural item on our political agenda as well. Regular exercises are of great importance both in this and in other areas. The next exercise of nuclear safety, in which the Russian and Norwegian authorities participate with a number of other countries, takes place during the summer. It is not just in the area of nuclear safety that we see the need for extensive preparedness cooperation. Climate change and increased activity in the northern regions face a number of security and preparedness challenges in Norway, Russia and our other Arctic co-operation countries and neighbouring countries. The region is characterised by very large distances, severe weather conditions and limited rescue and preparedness resources. At the same time, the requirements of society’s crisis management capacity are increasing. Overview of activity, warning systems and regional cooperation on search and rescue will be essential to assist in the event of accidents or crises. Norway is therefore a driver of regional rescue and preparedness cooperation in the northern regions. In 2008, we concluded an agreement with Russia, Finland and Sweden on rescue work, such as: includes cross-border mutual assistance in a crisis or accident situation. Norway has also taken an active part in the Barents Rescue exercise series — a comprehensive exercise for which we will be host countries until next year. The search and rescue agreement signed at the Ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in 2011 is also a good basis for further development of this cooperation with Russia. This is the first legally binding agreement between the member countries of the Arctic Council. It marks an important milestone in committed regional cooperation to meet common challenges. We are making this agreement to improve coordination of rescue preparedness at sea and in the Arctic air, so that it is safer to travel in Arctic waters. The agreement clearly defines which country will be responsible for search and rescue operations in which areas of the Arctic. On the defence side, Norway and Russia also have good cooperation, which stands as a striking contrast to the time of the cold war. Annual plans are drawn up for activities in both countries, and the Head of Defence Operational Headquarters in Bodø and the Head of the Western Military District in St. Petersburg meet regularly. In recent years, there has also been an annual bilateral maritime exercise, Exercise Pomor, with Norwegian and Russian forces. Bilateral cooperation shall contribute, inter alia: to increase our ability to interact with Russia, in particular related to crisis management and fisheries surveillance. The interpellant takes up work on border and visa agreements – and a lot has happened here. The figures are known – border crossings at Storskog have increased from around 8 000 in 1990 to 107 000 in 2005, and now almost 195 000 in 2011; a new monthly record was set in December 2011 by 22,700 people crossing this Norwegian-Russian border. We expect the increase to continue. This people-to-people cooperation is a natural consequence of the normalisation that has taken place in relations with Russia over the last 20 years, which the interpellant drew up. It is also an expression of the optimism of Finnmark and Murmanian counties as a result of increased attention to the north areas of both government, business, organisations and cultural life. At the same time, increased cross-border traffic is in the process of detonating the capacity of Storskog. This underlines the need for upgrading the border station and the follow-up to the government's objective of a more flexible visa regime in the north. Through good border cooperation and the most flexible visa regime, we will facilitate good business cooperation in the north. Here we are already well under way – and several Norwegian companies are planning to engage. Given the developments expected in North-West Russia, this is positive. Simpler border crossings is a priority area for the government. During the spring, the agreement on a border residence certificate will enter into force. Then Norwegian and Russian citizens residing within a 30 km zone on either side of the border will be able to travel visa-free within the zone. The system consolidates the close historical and cultural links in the north. Norway was the first Schengen country to sign such an agreement with Russia. This is a good example of our good neighborhood being a source of innovation. The visa regime is another important factor in Norwegian-Russian cooperation. The vision is visa freedom with Russia. We're not there yet. So far, we need to do what we can to get good solutions in the context of Schengen cooperation. We are following closely the discussion between the EU and Russia on a revised visa agreement, and we will follow up on any relief. At the same time, the government is continuously assessing what we can do within the Schengen framework. We have already established special arrangements for groups of Russian citizens through our bilateral visa agreement. We have also established the so-called pomor visa, as mentioned by the interpellant, for Russian citizens in Murmansk and Arkhangelsk counties, who exempt the applicants from the invitation. We are also reviewing legislation and practices with a view to further facilitation. We want to ensure that Norwegian visa regimes and procedures are as simple as possible and that Russian citizens of course feel welcome when applying for visas and crossing the border with Norway. We know that for the business community in the north, the exchange of labour between Norway and Russia is significant. In the Northern Territory Communication, which we are going to discuss here on 17 April, the government announced that we will facilitate Russian labour in the north. The special arrangements for Russia are already good. In 2010, we introduced a special scheme for the use of unskilled labour from north-west Russia in the three northernmost counties. Furthermore, a service office has been set up in the Churches, which has increased the level of service and helped to significantly reduce the processing time for applications for work permits for Russians in recent years. The Service Office has its own hotline for the UDI, and in March the UDI introduced a system that provides Norwegian businesses recruiting foreign workers with an offer of their own contact person. UDI prioritises issues related to labour from north-west Russia. The average duration of treatment for applications for work permits is now down to four weeks in the country as a whole. So-called uncomplicated cases in the north are dealt with in five to ten days — and often more quickly. Last year, the UDI received 688 applications for Russian skilled labour, of which 628 were granted. Since the introduction of the special scheme for unskilled workers in the north in 2009, the UDI has received 55 applications, 47 of which have been granted. Customs cooperation is also important. Business experience that customs clearance of goods entering Russia can be complicated and time consuming. Effective customs clearance is an important prerequisite for increased trade. However, it has proved difficult to achieve effective customs cooperation. Therefore, it was positive that the customs directors recently met and agreed to strengthen cooperation here as well. Next year, we will mark the 20th anniversary of Barents' cooperation under the Norwegian Presidency. Since its inception, Barents’ cooperation has been a driving force in regional cooperation in the north, a cooperation that has increased steadily in scope and importance, and has helped build trust across borders – in fact, as it was if we go back decades in the Norwegian-Russian relationship. In other words, we are talking about a kind of recovery. The priorities for the Norwegian Barents Presidency and the number of activities taking place at all levels illustrate how far we have come. We focus on the Barents region as a resourceful region, rich in natural resources and rich in human resources. Barncooperation must constantly adapt to changes and new developments, and that is what we stress in our Presidency. Increased human activity in the north requires enhanced cooperation between countries. This will continue to be the approach of the government. We will further develop cooperation with Russia and our other friends in the north, both bilaterally and regionally. We need to pay attention to health, the environment and safety. We shall facilitate increased value creation by developing new knowledge and ensuring cross-border cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e608	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I think we have the same approach. There is a relatively broad consensus in the Chamber on these issues. The danger of broad political consensus is that consensus gives lack of political attention, and if there is something this matter needs, there is greater political and media attention. Otherwise, it might be time to suggest that the UDI set up a branch office in the Churches. Now, I guess today's government has ongoing discussions about UDI that is taking its share of attention for the time being, but, at least, if you're going to get some solutions that provide a smooth procedure, I think the understanding of the presence in the north doesn't have to be a bad idea. At present there is an IAEA conference in Seoul in which our Prime Minister, as far as I understand, is present and shows, among other things. to good Norwegian-Russian cooperation in this field. My point in this interview is that when we should have been notified, we were not notified. There is a larger stock of life-threatening nuclear equipment, and the stockpiles of discarded equipment are just near the Norwegian border. We have 500-1 000 strategic nuclear weapons intended for regional use near the Norwegian border. This must be taken into account. It must be a political objective to remove them and that they should not be located and used against a good neighbour. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is expressing that the vision is to get a visa-free vis-à-vis Russia. The EU is working on this too too. This can bring about the real progress of East-West cooperation as such. Of course, it is very important to underline the progress made through the 2008 agreements and through the new agreements on search and rescue. But again, not only the ‘Jekaterinburg’ but also the ‘Kursk’ accident, we have seen that the Russian authorities do not give notice when they are about to give a message. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How has the ‘Jekaterinburg’ case been addressed by the Norwegian authorities to the Russian authorities? The second question is: why does Finland succeed so much better than Norway in terms of visa practice vis-à-vis Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e619	I will try to respond quickly to some comments. This with the branch office in Kirkenes is a topic that has been up several times. As I have conveyed the message to the UDI and asked them to think carefully through it, they have replied back that they believe that through current arrangements – with contact arrangements and hotline – they have met that need. I have to base this on, because they're the professional authority, and they're busy improving this. But it's true that the representative says that the vision is visa freedom. When so much is agreed, it's very reasonable to say that you're almost there. But Norway is part of Schengen, and we have to follow what is happening in Europe, quite closely. With regard to the difference between Norway and Finland: Well, one is that Finland has a vastly larger volume. This also applies from St. Petersburg and other parts and along the whole common border of Finland and Russia. We study Finnish experience carefully. We're closely connected in Murmansk. We aim for simplification. But I want to say here – with a little formalism – that when it's not visa freedom, it's visa treatment. It takes some time, and there should be arranged relationships above this limit. I think we've shown that we want to be pragmatic – facilitate and simplify where we can. It's also worth turning the mirror against Russia and saying that they can simplify a lot more, so that it also follows up when we have activity that way. But there's still to be control, and there's to be order for this. I share the representative's focus on nuclear weapons. I recall the initiative that Norway and Poland have taken internally in NATO, that the tactical nuclear weapons must be included in the next round, when strategically assessed. It is clear that this is the untouched chapter on the disarmament situation in Europe, on which we are concerned that there must be a clear focus. In the case of the submarine, we have addressed this question in the professional channels between the Straw livery and the respective authority contacts on the other side. I have also addressed directly with the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we are not satisfied with what has been revealed there by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At first it was said that there was not a certain type of condition on board, and then it must have been anyway. It's an uncertainty that it's not good to live with when we're neighbors. That is why this is on our common agenda. I also find it natural that it is on the agenda when Norway and Russia have the next political meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e632	Thank you to Kristiansen, who addresses the important question of our relationship with our neighbour in the north, and also for the thorough – I think – the presentation that the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave in response to the interpellation. The situation in the northern regions is currently characterised by considerable international interest, which will not diminish. But today's potential for conflict is limited, because we have some things in order in our own house. But there are also other forces that drive the development and change of the area. You could say, well, the situation is more complex than it has been before, and it's also a little bit more untransparent, of course, as a result of the great activity that we're now looking at, both commercially and civilly. Climate change, access to natural resources and increasing human activity bring more attention. This can, of course, create the potential for both cooperation and conflict of interest in the area. The politics of the Labour Party and the Government are clear – as I see it. The policy we have put forward is to state that Norway should maintain a consistent level of sovereignty in the area. But we should also be aware of the fact that Russia has the longest coastline of the polar states. Russia also has a large population in these areas. Therefore, cooperation with Russia is in continuous development. Of course, the conflict faces are widening the number of things that arise. This applies in particular to areas such as fisheries, the economy, the environment and, in particular, nuclear safety, which were affected by the inter-pellant. On our side, policy must be firm, recognisable and predictable. It's this way we can assert our interests in the area. Some time ago, we dealt with Report. St. 11 for 2009–2010, Cooperation with Russia on nuclear activities and the environment in the northern regions. This cooperation showed that we had helped reduce nuclear accidents and radioactive pollution in our neighbourhoods. I want to summarise the important results that were achieved at the time and that we are working on further: Excavation of nuclear submarines – not a negligible cause and still not used nuclear fuel under authority control – also a major cause removal of 180 light bulbs powered by radioactive source, now powered by solar These are important areas where we have achieved results. I see that we will also deal with another matter a little later today, about the Riksrevision's comments on that matter. As you've been told, the fire on the nuclear submarine in the space Christmas was very serious. The main objective of both parties, as expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is to protect the population and the environment from radioactive pollution and to prevent the diversion of material. That's the big one here. But the warning was totally deficient. This is, as I said, serious. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister is now pursuing this matter at the highest level, so that this does not happen again, that you can be satisfied, and that there is trust between the parties. It's very important in a matter like this. We must continue the established cooperation with Russia on security, exercise and preparedness, of which we already have a part today. Search and rescue in these large areas must and shall be high on the agenda. The most important areas in this context are: prevention of accidents more stringent maritime safety requirements cooperation between countries time factor, distance and climate The activity in these areas needs to be taken into account for the dimensioning of this work. Rescue and preparedness cooperation must also be based on mutual assistance in a crisis and/or accident situation. It was an important declaration adopted by the five Polish states of Canada, Denmark, Norway, Russia and the United States to strengthen the search and rescue services in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e679	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing important questions. There has been a debate marked by a great deal of consensus, consensus. The representative of Kristiansen had a heart attack about lack of political attention. I share that, and not least the absence of the national press's interest in these kinds of questions. It's a shame if it's the way we have to create political disagreement and conflict to get attention to these kinds of challenges. Cooperation with Russia is good and is getting better and better, but the potential for improvement seems to be constantly present, frustration will arise and arise. We have legislation, we have agreements – and that is important – but probably the practice of these agreements is crucial. This is where it's missing. Exercises may remedy any of this, but there is no doubt that on the Russian side there is a lack of spinal cord reflexes in terms of such a theme as alerting. It's a form of unculture, and it's very hard to reverse such a mentality. When we see that we are getting better information about these kinds of issues from Russian bloggers than through official Russian channels, it is a challenge that the Russians should also see as a challenge – not that they should stop the blogs, but that they should take care of the good neighbourhood, which is also highlighted by the Russian side, and that basic security for the people throughout the Kola Peninsula and throughout the Barents region is ensured. Then it is important to focus strongly on both bilateral and regional alert mechanisms. I also noticed that the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs was very dissatisfied with the lack of warning in relation to the Swedish side. This is something we have in common. The major breakthrough in relation to the nuclear threat to Kola can only be resolved by international disarmament negotiations. In this context, an attempt to reach an international multilateral disarmament agreement becomes very close. Then a new border crossing infrastructure needs to be put in place, which can meet the increasing traffic we experience at the Norwegian-Russian border. This infrastructure must be able to cope with the traffic we expect for many years to come. With the new border residence certificate, there will be a strong increase. Now interesting ideas have been launched about one common Norwegian-Russian border station located on Storskog – Boris Gleb. Such a project may provide the necessary capacity, for there is no doubt that that kind of small-scale strike on the Norwegian and Russian sides will not solve the overall problem. If we are to have a vision of visa freedom in the relationship of Norway/Russia and Schengen/Russia, we need to focus on an infrastructure that will safeguard that perspective in the future. Then we have to think 10, 15, 20, 30 years ahead. Such a joint station will be able to push forward good practical solutions for effective border crossing of both persons and goods, as the representative of Kristiansen has been. I also support his comments on the practicalisation of the Schengen acquis and the comparison with Finland is evident. There is something Norway should definitely look at, so that we have the greatest possible degree of common practice. Otherwise, we will come back to these questions when dealing with the North Sea notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e694	I also thank the interpellant for an important interpellant on an important topic. It's probably a theme that we're not going to finish talking so fast. Now I'm one of those people who think that some parts of the North Region bet are frequent in the newspapers by day, so I don't feel that the danger of it falling out of focus is just imminent. We who live up there have experienced, over the years, that we have a neighbour who, through democratic processes – or possibly undemocratic processes, depending on where you are located – is becoming more and more centralized. It turns out that it is more difficult to push political processes across the north border, operating regional processes. It's harder now than it was not so many years ago. It comes from the fact that we have a changed regime in Russia with a much tighter grip on power, and the power has moved to Moscow. This probably does, I think, some of the jobs you're trying to do from the Norwegian side are also getting harder. Nevertheless, I think it is important to point out that we cannot give up on the good cooperation we had across the Norwegian-Russian border, the good regional cooperation that has been developed over many years. I actually think that one good tool can be to show that the more you can do regionally, the better the processes you can anchor locally, and the more you can challenge locally in the north, you will also show the neighbours on the Russian side good recipes for how to make good border cooperation. In fact, border crossings have been a hot topic for years. In 2007 I started with my first requests to the government on this issue, and there is little that has happened to the individual economic operator. A lot has happened by getting borders in place, a lot has happened by the fact that a lot of formalities have been put in place overall, but for a small company to trade across borders, or for a Finnmarking to cross the border, little has happened in practice. I have to protest when the Foreign Minister stands up here and says that the UDI believes they have a more pragmatic treatment of these problems today than they had before. It is not the experience of those who use this limit daily, weekly and monthly. More open and pragmatic attitudes to visa applications for people trading up there are also a good way to build trust between the two countries, and I think it's a good tool in that way. So to the second part of the frontier that applies to moving goods. It's like today that one of the biggest commodities into Russia is fish. Unfortunately, today most people have to go through Finland. It should be a little warning that then we are not good enough with this cooperation. We must be so ambitious that we say that the fish produced in Troms and Finnmark should cross the Norwegian-Russian border station of the neighbours of Russia. I have not heard anyone who has said that we should not have that ambition, but I record that this is not happening today. Then we should be so ambitious that we say, "That's going to happen, and we're going to fold up the sleeves to make it happen."
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e709	I thank Ivar Kristiansen for bringing up an interesting topic and presented me with a challenge that I also think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has responded well. It is probably a reality that in a large world Norway is a small country. At the same time, we have a big neighbour northeast of us to whom we have to deal in all the ways that Russia thinks we have to deal with them – and in the ways that we want them to act. In many ways, then, it must be said that Russia is a premiscuous supplier also of Norwegian policy, whether we like it or not. Our challenge is to find a good balance in relation to the needs we see, while at the same time we have no primary wish – I assume – to provoke our big neighbor in the east. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't dry up to point out the weaknesses that we see in other communities, just like we're critical of ourselves. That means that we have to challenge Russia in the search for a – let's call it – more fair democracy than what they see today, and, of course, as far as possible, we should assist them as far as possible. I registered that the representative Tore Nordtun said something wise. He said it's important to keep order in his own house. Yes, we do, but I'm not quite sure that Russia has it the same way as us. I also realized that in Russia, central power is as important as regional and local power. In this way you might say that you're going the other way. I thought I would allow myself to bring those who are present in the hall in a little flashback for my own part. Now in June, it's been 30 years since I was in St. Petersburg for the first time. To go there for the first time was a great experience. The most eye-catching experience was the border crossing of Karelia. I had the pleasure of running a Norwegian travel company that was going to visit Leningrad, as it was in the old days when I was there. Passing the border that the North was giant compared to the way I saw everyone else being treated. The Swedish, Danish and other country's nationalities were treated in a completely different way than we were. If it was because of the historical community that we have through World War II, the way Russian prisoners were taken care of and helped in Norway, and the developments that occurred after World War II, I'm going to be careful to be bastant, but that it's an important element that binds the Norwegian and Russian people together, I'm sure. So I live in a small municipality that has a Russian and a Yugoslav war cemetery as well as a German cemetery. Obviously, when you have those elements, they connect because you have a common history anchor. The point of pulling this up is that when we discuss our relationship with Russia, I think the most important thing we do is to be clear on things. We have to dry down when we believe that the Russians are doing things that are not good in the matter of alerting. It was just going to be missing that we shouldn't. The same applies to fisheries, fisheries management and other areas where we have a common concern. I record that the Foreign Minister says that in the case of defence cooperation, it is good, and no one should be more pleased with it than we are. We, of all people, should appreciate it to those degrees and ensure that it is further developed, and not least that in Russia too we have ‘political control’ – let’s say – on the armed forces and elsewhere in the country. Then it was about border crossing. Here, I think you have a challenge, because if it's like other nationalities, like Finland, do things better and faster than us, it won't do us any good. I believe that Russians actually perceive Norway as – let's say – cautious, withholding and perhaps not fully respectful enough to the Russians as citizens when they see the difficulties they have in getting in here. If you take up the purchasing power of some Russians on the opposite side of the calculation, there is no doubt that we should invite them much more to come to Norway and use their surplus – those who have it – here in the country. At least it had to be at least as positive as if they were going to do it elsewhere. So we have to make sure that we have the necessary respect and that we treat them in a good way. But the most important thing, at my discretion, is that a good neighbor is an honest and obvious neighbor. That's how the Workers' Party has had several prime ministers who have talked about just caring and wiping things out. I believe that even though we have a very large neighbor east of us, I think that what gives us respect is to dry out even though he is much bigger. By not taking responsibility and not making them responsible, we are doing ourselves only a bear service, and it benefits neither us nor Russia in a close and close cooperation as we have today, and as we hope will also have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e726	The next speaker is interpellant, Ivar Johansen – Ivar Kristiansen, sorry, then Foreign Minister Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e730	Dear child has many names. I appreciate the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the reaction to the Jekaterinburg fire. I think that is very satisfactory. This interpellation is also about the fact that only a tiny nuclear accident in the Barents Sea on the east side of the Norwegian border can give many, many of which we do not know the scope of. One is, for example, granting Norwegian fishing industry the overnight grace. In a market you won't be able to get up from such a situation in many, many years. Then, of course, you can keep spinning on what kind of human consequences this will have. It is good to hear that there is a good consensus about the approach to these issues, in particular the discussion of the tactical nuclear weapons that we have in these quantities near the Norwegian border. We have to get these away. A good neighbour cannot be adorned with 500 to 1000 nuclear warheads intended for regional use near the Norwegian border. Of course, this is addressed in an international context, but this must also be addressed in local, regional and national Norwegian contexts. We have great ambitions in our Russia dialogue, and I think that's very necessary, because our interaction in crowns and ears today is relatively modest: 1.6 pst. of Norway’s international trade has to do with Russia, and these arrows have to point upwards. These are two major geographic acts of the world, including Norway. Together with Russia, the two are large in Europe, with land and sea area included. We have a lot to deal with in time and together in the future. Search and rescue are one of these. It is therefore important that we have looked firmly at the agreements that have been concluded and that these should be followed up. I'm a little less satisfied with the answer given to why Finns succeed so much, much better than us in their border contact with Russia, but this we are given the opportunity to come back to during the treatment of our North Sea reporting. We have very comparable numbers in relation to border crossings in the Arkhangelsk-Murmansk region, to which we are probably allowed to come back. Thank you very much for a very good debate. Thanks for the participation, and thank you for many and good recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e749	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant. He has made a nice recording of what will be our discussion here later in April on the Northern Region Communication. A couple of feedbacks on what we've heard: I fully agree with the point made by the representative, Mr Höglund, about the importance of the border station. It confronts us with some pretty big choices, really. First of all, I don't think we should reject flickering when we need to patch. This station was very modern when it came, and we've done a good job of making it more accessible. I actually think we have to keep going until we fall down on what's going to be the big grip on the way forward. It sounds provocative to think of a common station. There may also be administrative and bureaucratic arguments that make it more difficult. We're going to think about it and have a good dialogue here in Stortinget. In isolation, to the representative of Bakke-Jensen, I do not agree that little has happened in the north when it comes to trade, but I fully agree with his observation that many smaller companies experience frustration at this border. It's because it's a contrast to all the other borders Norway has, where it's going very well. That is why we must always be ambitious about this. I take with me again the impatience that prevails with UDI, and I will pass it on, with the attitude that we have to do everything we can to facilitate that the acceptance of applications for work and other forms of stay is as easy as possible. But I'll also be allowed to say that it's not that it's free float, and that it's free drag. I think it is important that there is also control. I remember that in 1990 there were 8 000 border crossings, in 2005 a little over 100,000, last year almost 200,000, and I have seen predictions of 400,000 in 2014. It's positive, because it's the return of something that's normal. However, I am also concerned that the State of Norway should have control of this in a manner that is sound. I fully agree with what Mr Ellingsen says about drying to care. I believe it is a description of the long-term Norwegian foreign policy line towards Russia that is characterised by different governments – long-term, firm and consistent. That means that we're going to recognize, and we're also going to be able to recognize when it comes to saying from. Therefore, I just want to say that Norway is not being held back from saying so. On the matter of this submarine, which disturbed us during Christmas, we have said clearly from there, and we are going to follow it on the way as well. Finally, we can compare Finland: Finland probably has its closest points of contact with Russia further south, but if you travel to Murmansk, you can see that there is one country that has succeeded in establishing business there, and that is Norway. I agree with the representative of Kristiansen – and I think that is a very important agreement we have in this room – that people-to-people cooperation was the basis for that breakthrough. It took many years of good people-to-people cooperation before we did business cooperation. We have to keep going with both of these.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e772	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e786	We will continue to talk about Norwegian-Russian relations. The document we are dealing with today is based on a cooperation between the National Audit Office and their Russian counterpart, i.e. the National Audit Office in Russia. The work is a follow-up to Document 3:9 for 2009-2010, which the Committee gave an opinion on until 16 November 2010. These are radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, or nuclear fuel, if you like, in North-West Russia. I would also like to refer to the June 2010 Foreign Affairs Committee’s position on Meldning. St. 11 for 2009–2010, which deals with the same theme. Norway's cooperation with Russia in the field of nuclear safety began rapidly after the fall of the Soviet Union. Let me add: this is a very important collaboration. The nuclear action plan, funded by Norway funds, has helped to reduce the risk of accidents and radioactive pollution, not to mention the risk of radioactive sources being diverted. According to the National Audit Office, the measures have been largely implemented as planned. It is really in Norwegian interest to cooperate with Russia in this area. We have a commitment to clean up nuclear pollution in our neighbourhoods. The threat assessments tell us that the radioactive waste in North-West Russia can easily be converted into so-called ‘dirty bombs’ if it gets into the hands of terrorists and other criminals. In fact, the international non-proliferation regime sees the Kola Peninsula as the area in the world where nuclear and fissile material represents the greatest threat to safety and the environment. In addition to the fact that nuclear waste represents a high risk to health and the environment, inter alia: in Finnmark and other neighbouring areas, poorly secured fissile material is a threat from a security and non-proliferation perspective. In the period 1995 to 2010, the Stortinget has granted 1.5 billion. on the Government’s nuclear action plan. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: Illustrated the financial management of the projects in the internal control systems. Financial management and internal control of Russian contracting parties are primarily highlighted by the Russian National Audit Office. The Committee stresses the importance of the development of a joint memorandum of understanding with the results of the respective studies and joint assessments. The Committee notes that there are still weaknesses in the internal control and management of funds by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which have gone to North-West Russia and therefore also underlines the importance of the follow-up of grant management systems and procedures by the Ministry, and assumes that the Ministry addresses the weaknesses pointed out by the Riksrevision. Nevertheless, let me underline again: the clean-up of nuclear waste, the scrapping of reactor-powered submarines and the securing of lights along the Kola peninsula have been among the main areas of activity in Norway's cooperation with Russia in the field of environmental protection and nuclear safety. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence expressed its unanimous opinion in June 2010 that Norwegian efforts need to be seen more internationally and coordinated with other countries than in the past. It's a broad international commitment. Ensuring all sensitive nuclear material by 2014 is an important part of international non-proliferation work. Let me add that in the previous position, the Committee on Control and Constitution joined this unanimous comment of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. Ever since the end of the Cold War, the UN and other international and national organisations have cooperated with Russia and other post-Soviet states to secure and remove material from chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. Let me mention the formidable work of the American senators Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar. They have been involved in nuclear treatment of nuclear waste in North-West Russia and have helped to secure the country's chemical weapons arsenal. Both have been nominated several times at the Nobel Peace Prize for this work. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision's conclusion that the allocations of the Storting to nuclear safety cooperation in North-West Russia have helped to reduce the risk of accidents, radioactive pollution and that fissile material should be kept by abusers. It is important that this work continues even though enough foreign minister will nod consent to the fact that the framework conditions for this cooperation with Russia are sometimes demanding and time consuming.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e809	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a very good piece of work. I would just like to add that I share the view expressed in the post by the rapporteur. The report of the National Audit Office on the follow-up of the parallel audit to the Russian National Audit Office on radiation safety and the protection of the environment and pollution from radioactive sources in North-West Russia also reveals weaknesses in financial management. ‘This poses a risk of non-prevention or detection of maladministration’ said National Auditor Jørgen Kosmo during the presentation of the report. However, the report also shows that the projects examined for the protection of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel have been largely carried out in line with the contracts concluded between Norway and Russia. The National Audit Office also notes that the nuclear safety cooperation between our two countries has provided valuable knowledge to Norwegian authorities about the safety of nuclear installations and the risks associated with radioactive waste. The investigation has revealed deficiencies in the accounting documentation on both the Norwegian and Russian sides. It turns out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not required Norwegian project managers to report on how their activities are organised to prevent and detect corruption, misuse of funds and irregularities. It's not durable. It also appears that some contracts do not require tendering procedures and documentation of the accounts of Russian contracting partners. Like the National Audit Office, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to follow up on the active use of the contracts in order to ensure effective use and control of Norwegian funds. The unanimous position of the Control and Constitutional Committee states that Norwegian-Russian nuclear safety cooperation is an important part of our bilateral relationship. The dismantling of reactor-powered submarines and the securing of lighthouses along the Kola peninsula have been the main areas of this cooperation. In addition, the Norwegian authorities have also contributed to strengthening the safety of the Kola nuclear power plant and the nuclear fuel plant in Andrejevabukta. As noted in the submission, the Committee endorses the conclusions of the Riksrevision that the allocation of the Great Britain to nuclear safety work in North-West Russia has contributed to reducing the risk of accidents, radioactive pollution and radioactive sources. The Committee also endorses the criticism of the Riksrevision and stresses that it is essential for the Ministry to follow up the establishment of Norwegian project managers in order to prevent corruption, misuse of funds and irregularities. I assume that the department now takes this seriously and takes the necessary steps without further delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e822	This is an important matter, so I just want to link some comments to it. I note with satisfaction that the Committee has unanimously joined the nomination of the Foreign and Defence Committee of 17 June 2010 on Notification. St. 11 for 2009–2010 Cooperation with Russia on nuclear activities and the environment in the northern regions, which states that cooperation on nuclear safety has helped to reduce the risk of accidents, radioactive pollution and radioactive sources. I'm glad. I also note that the Committee emphasises the importance of a broad international commitment to solving the many and costly nuclear problems in North-West Russia, and that Norwegian-Russian cooperation is thus important. The contribution of this cooperation to global work on disarmament and non-proliferation is very central. Let me say that from the Norwegian side, we emphasise that cooperation gives Norwegian authorities valuable knowledge about the safety of nuclear installations and the risks associated with radioactive waste in North-West Russia, and that this contributes to ensuring health and the environment in border areas. It is an important component of the work for the protection of sensitive radioactive material so that it cannot be used in e.g. terrorist acts, which were also promoted in the debate. Overall, the Committee’s assessment of the Riksrevision report thus confirms that there is a cross-political consensus on the broad lines of Norway’s cooperation with Russia on nuclear safety. The government is concerned that increased Russian efforts in this area are taking place and assumes that Russia has the primary responsibility for the challenges of further nuclear safety work. This is an important point in our dialogue with the Russian authorities. There is still a significant risk of radioactive contamination from sources in North-West Russia. Work will continue both in the framework of wider international cooperation and in the form of bilateral projects with Russia. In 2012, we will focus on four areas: completion of the work of fireworks in the Baltic Sea cleanup in the Andreyeva Bay of Security and Prepared Environmental Monitoring, including the joint Norwegian-Russian take-off in the Barents and Kara Seas; Efforts in Andreyeva Bay will be central to the future. This former marine base only six miles from the Norwegian border is considered to be one of the world’s largest collection sites for spent fuels with more than 21000 fuel elements. Over a number of years, Norway has made a significant contribution to facilitating the safe and safe disposal of this waste, and we are now moving to a new phase in Andrejeva Bay where the organisation is gradually completed and the important shipment can take place. By 2025 you can see that all the fuels will have been removed. It will be very important for further clean-up and deportation to be carried out in such a way as to protect the population and the environment. Continued Norwegian involvement will contribute to this, and it is noted in the north that the commitment to clean up there is strongly popularly anchored. We are pleased that the Riksrevision states that the projects are mainly implemented as planned and that there are no financial maladministrations in the project cooperation. It is essential to ensure the most efficient use of the funds allocated by the Stortinget for this purpose and therefore work is continuously improving the procedures for grant management, including quality assurance and control of the projects. The parallel audit between the Norwegian and Russian national audit is a valuable contribution to this work and has in itself contributed to better internal control systems on the Russian side. At the same time, the Riksrevision points to some weaknesses related to internal control and financial management on the Norwegian and Russian sides, as the chairman of the committee was also concerned. In my reply to the National Audit Office, I have explained the measures already taken on efficient use of resources and strengthened control, including requirements for the use of tendering processes and increased internal control requirements for project managers to prevent and detect financial maladministration and corruption. I would like to stress: this is taking the department in the greatest seriousness. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to work to strengthen the administrative procedures in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office and will specifically ensure that the requirements of the internal control system of the project managers are followed up. This will strengthen the control of the effective use of funds allocated and in line with the Storting assumptions. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Norwegian radiation protection authorities for the efforts they have made over many years. The cooperation on nuclear safety must be based on long-term sustainability and the further work will follow the direction specified in the Report. St. 11 for 2009-2010, and for which there is broad and cross-political outreach.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e852	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e866	The National Audit Office has carried out its annual audit of the national accounts and administration of Svalbard for 2010. The annual audit is part of the constitutional control responsibilities vis-à-vis the executive. The Riksrevision indicates that the 2010 oil-corrected deficit is 104.1 billion. kr, which is SEK 5.3 billion. kr lower than estimated in the fresh aging period. During the audit, the National Audit Office issued 203 final audit letters without any comment and 20 final audit letters with note. It shows a main impression of a government that works well, but has some potential for improvement. In the past, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has been particularly clear that it is the one who controls on behalf of the Storting and decides what is necessary for transparency to carry out the control. Despite the fact that the Storting has supported the Committee's views over several years, issues arise where the Riksrevision is attempted to refuse access to documents. This study has done so once. I would therefore like to stress that the Committee unanimously calls for the necessary information measures to be taken by the Council of State in respect of its own departments and agencies, so that the Riksrevisiet can access the documents to which the Stortinget has decided that the Riksrevisiet should have access. Another repetition is the lack of follow-up to the requirements for documentation of different public dispositions. The Committee stresses the importance of careful monitoring of the documentation requirements in order to allow for large-scale and national audit to examine the compatibility of the arrangements with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The Committee has for many years underlined the importance of the establishment of the system of objectives and risk management in the ministries. The framework now appears to be in place in most departments, but there are still some enforcement challenges. During the last few weeks, there has been a great deal of focus on the ministry's handling of different grant schemes. The issues we are now seeing through the media's revelations are so much affected in some of the National Audit Office's comments for 2010. Although it has not revealed the kind of systematic failure that some of these reports we have received via the media can indicate, and also a particular focus on individual grants, the Committee has been somewhat involved in this issue in the vote. The national audit focused primarily on challenges related to budgeting, setting targets for the arrangements, internal control and reporting. It is under the control of the National Audit Office that shortcomings in the grant management have been identified in 9 of the 13 departments surveyed. For my part, I would like to add that, as the Committee took note of at the time, Document 1 of the Committee’s 2009 drew attention to weaknesses in the Directorate-General for Health’s grant management. I will now briefly summarise the findings in those areas where I myself am the case rapporteur. The Prime Minister’s Office has also not received significant comments from the Riksrevision for 2010. Under the Ministry of Knowledge, an audit letter has been issued with a note for the Sámi University, the University of Environment and Life Sciences, the University of Stord/Haugesund and the Centre for ICT in education. The Committee is of the opinion that these establishments are in such a position as to have received final audit letters with comments. One must assume that it is being worked hard to correct the errors pointed out by the Riksaudition, and ensure that this is not a repetition in our system. I also owe it to you to point out that 45 final audit letters have been sent to the same department without notice. Enterprise and Trade Department: there is no final audit letter with note. However, there is reason to recall that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's portfolio also includes a number of companies in which the State is a whole or a partner. This is addressed in a separate audit report by the Committee. Then one of my committee colleagues has more or less gone astray and been prevented from meeting today. Therefore, I would like to say a few words about the areas that the representative Øyvind Vaksdal covers as the case rapporteur in this setting, while he himself sits hopefully at the airport and longs for better weather. During the year’s revision of the State Road Service, the National Audit Office found serious weaknesses in its follow-up to the contractors with whom the operation has contracts. It's revealed that in the entire 66 pst. of the cases, the contractual terms are not met and, in addition, weak or incorrect documentation of day works related to the control of contractors has been demonstrated. This is absolutely not good, and I assume that the Ministry of Transport is now following this up and rectifying these conditions. The national audit has also revealed significant cost and time exceedances in road projects. From a selection of 82 contracts, verification shows that 40 of these contracts have exceeded their cost. It is also pointed out that 26 of the same 82 contracts had delays in the projects. On this basis, a unanimous committee expects the Ministry of Transport to ensure that future road projects are kept within the agreed cost and time limits. But it's not just revealed exceedances. This year, too, a significant reduction in the use of funds to stimulate the better organisation of the public transport system has also been identified by the Ministry, since it is repeated year after year. The most serious thing that may have been revealed during the Ministry of Transport's portfolio, however, is the railway station's lack of knowledge about our railway bridges. It turns out that the railway works are missing condition reports and inspection data for maintenance of a total of 40 pst. of a total of 2789 railway bridges. This is very serious, because we know that inadequate maintenance and defective repairs can lead to a risk to life and health. The Ministry of Transport describes, in its response to the Committee, both inspections and improvements, and a unanimous committee assumes that this work will be intensified in order to ensure safety in a fully sound manner. So over to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: the previously detected weaknesses in information security and weaknesses in the follow-up and control of our foreign stations are followed up by the National Audit Office. Under the aid chapter, we regret to see again that the Department does not have the necessary management, follow-up and control of aid funds – this time to Afghanistan. The National Audit Board claims that it agrees that the implementation of a sound administrative regime is a demanding task in Afghanistan, but considers that the established follow-up mechanisms are not sufficient to ensure that Norwegian funds are used on the basis of assumptions. This is, of course, a situation that cannot continue, and I assume that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is improving both its follow-up mechanisms and its procedures to ensure that the funds are used on the basis of assumptions and do not disappear for other purposes. I also remind you that a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in the setting emphasises that there is zero tolerance in relation to corruption and that it must guide all Norwegian development aid. The vote will be taken at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e917	It is true that the rapporteur's statement shows that there is a great deal of agreement between the parties and the whole Committee on the setting of Document 1 for this year. However, I would like to highlight a few things before I go into it more specifically. Of course, a discussion in this room about Document 1 should – and it is natural – often be concentrated on the weaknesses identified in the Riksrevision document. However, it must also be said – it is also apparent from the setting-up, from the document and from the Riksrevision’s point of view – that the Norwegian administration in general is very good. It is also a very clear expression that the administration – of course, I would say, but also in fact – takes seriously the work and observations of the National Audit Office, that they are being followed up, and that the weaknesses pointed out from year to year are gradually corrected. That's good, and it's necessary, but it's also important to say it in this debate, so that you don't get the impression that the administration is full of mistakes, even though it has its weaknesses. I would also like to say – I do not record it so much in this Chamber, but on many other occasions – that what I would call a critical view of the Riksrevision's work is corrected. And of course we're going to do that, but the main impression is that the National Auditor's doing a very good job. The Riksrevision takes on the things that it itself determines, of course, according to the law we have, but also the reports that the Stortinget gets from the Riksrevision contain very much of good quality, and is formulated in such a way that it is possible to discuss them from a political point of view as well. It is of great value to the democratic development of Norway, and it is of great value to the ability of the Storting to exercise its important control function. These points of view are general considerations. Then I agree with everything that the case rapporteur, the representative Anundsen, said, but he had a – I want to say – remark that I will not let go without commenting on it. He had a reference to the work that everyone is familiar with in this Chamber, with which the control committee has now begun, namely the control of the subsidy schemes in the departments. There is a control process that the Workers' Party for its part – and I also allow myself to say the government fraction in its entirety – has stood behind. It's known. The documents are about to enter the Committee. What I reserve against is that the rapporteur needs to say that this was a systematic failure. I reserve that against. I don't want to give any characteristics of the material that we're getting in until we get to the setting. I don't think anyone else should do that either, because it is to have an opinion before the committee has examined the documents that we are now about to file. That is why there is a clear reservation on my part at this point, when the chairman of the committee also gives it a characteristic at that time. So to two more specific issues that I have a special responsibility for in the control committee. This applies first to the Ministry of Local Affairs, and that is a comment that I would like to stress. Firstly, the note is unanimous – the Committee is unanimous in its view of the work of the Ministry of Local Affairs, but it is a critical comment that there is every reason to comment here, too, when Document 1 is being discussed in the Stortinget. The Committee notes that it is not the case that final audit letters are presented in connection with the departments, but it has a very important note in relation to the management by the Ministry of Health and Welfare - to the accounts of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for 2010. The following is mentioned in the comment: ‘The Committee assumes that the serious circumstances referred to are corrected and that the Ministry ensures good accounting procedures in line with the applicable legislation.’;» The Committee also notes the management of the investment grant by the Husbank for nursing homes and nursing homes. Of course, the Committee is concerned that only one third of the undertaking framework has been agreed. Nursing homes and nursing homes are an important field of activity and considerable funds have been made available. The Committee therefore agrees with the Riksrevision that it is serious that there has been such a low level of activity in this area, and the Committee expects the Ministry to follow up the management of the scheme in the ongoing governance dialogue with the Husbanken. This is a clear political expression that needs to be emphasised in the examination of Document 1. So finally, the special remarks that relate to what is really the whole comment that relates to the Ministry of Finance. There's no unanimity. The majority of the Committee, which consists of all but the Progress Party and the Left, refers to the previous decision of the Storting regarding the revision of the State pension fund abroad. The majority of the Committee clearly believes that the management and audit of the Fund is good and satisfies the organisation determined by the Stortinget. However, one has a note in connection with that, as I say in particular, and that is that this is said with – I would say – the reservation that the department is able to follow that intention, as they have already begun, and as the committee notes, it is very good and makes sure to keep – let me say – the fees of consultants and other administrators, so that it does not come out of course completely – as we have unfortunately seen examples of. I would also like to say that the Committee is confident that the internal audit of the Bank of Norway will be carried out as it is now decided. Finally – I think it is a political heartbreak: the political heartbreak – then I say on behalf of the entire committee – is that we in the Grand Duchy are now counting on and hoping that it is possible to establish a good dialogue between the Ministry, the Riksrevision and the Bank of Norway, which are so organized that we feel the security of the systems we have for administration, but also for audit, which the Stortinget has repeated and discussed several times and decided, will be as we have now said, and as we repeat in this setting, and that the disagreement that has been there will be put aside, so that the Stortingeting feels great security that all the institutions are doing it as it is determined, and that we do not repeat comments related to this in more settings than we have already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e941	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e944	I just feel the need to clarify what I meant to say about the grant schemes, that you can get the impression through the media that it would be a systematic failure, and that we in the committee have no basis for concluding that way. I assume that both the representative Kolberg and I agree that we should wait and get all the documentation we have requested, before we conclude with what might be wrong and missing in the departments. I just think it is necessary to say that, as the representative of Kolberg addressed this as a particular issue. It's a hairy balance. I recognize that, and I want to make it clear that what I said was that you could get the impression through the media that it was systematic errors. But I assume that the representative Kolberg and I agree on how this should be handled in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e953	I respect that adjustment. It was also necessary for the representative Anundsen to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e958	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e961	Let me join the last part of the post of representative Martin Kolberg and ask that we release new debates in the Stortinget on the management of the pension fund and the relationship with the Ministry of Finance. The size has determined how it should be, and we do not need any revision of the Storting decision. I also want to join that part of Kolberg's posts, where he said that the Norwegian administration is very good. That's also my impression, but here in Document 1, we focus on the mistakes that have been made. They are important and serious, but not comprehensive. Let me start with the general -- a little heartache -- a little spooky to say: if you had introduced a state council school, as it has been promoted in the debate, for new councillors, young -- men or women -- or old people in the mall, the first hours should go on reading Document 1 from the last five years. Then you would avoid a lot of mistakes! I will give that advice for free, and it should have been followed by several government councils named in the press, which I will not name here, but it is allowed to learn from the mistakes of others – and they are often mentioned in Document 1. Let me just say a few words about the two focus areas I have, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Under the Ministry of Agriculture there is a very serious error, and it is a unanimous committee that strongly criticises the Ministry and Bioforsk for lack of accounting. The report states that the National Audit Office ‘has criticised Bioforsk for significant errors and shortcomings in the accounts because the accounting law and its principles have not been complied with’. That criticism is strong, and I hope it will be passed on to the person who is currently the Minister for Agriculture. Under the Ministry of Oil and Energy, there is a special focus on NVE. In many ways, the Council of State provides an appropriate response in terms of monitoring and monitoring the adequacy of supervision activities for the maintenance of the central network. The letter from the Council of State acknowledges that this has not been an important part of the governance dialogue with the NVE. I have a feeling, through what is written, that the management dialogue with the NVE has been quite low priority. It is good that the Council of State now admits this far on the road and also promises a follow-up to the supervision activities of the central network in relation to the NVE, because it is an important part of the NVE's task here pointed out, but it requires active follow-up, and it is not contrary to the principles of ownership management of the NVE whether this is given greater attention in the governance dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e974	It was very beneficial for the committee leader to clarify the matter of the procedure, for a joint committee to wait for full feedback from the departments and then have a thorough examination of the matter. I'd like to make a heart attack too, because everyone does, and it's that I hope we can get through this before the summer, so that the departments can also run politics and not just dig in creation. The committee leader was very precise, perhaps a little more precise, when it spelled the Ministry of Transport. The only problem is that it is not being used against the reward scheme and criticism of it. For that I have two comments. The only one is that in that letter that's being briefed, one actually changed the routines. The second point is that one should have a system within the reward scheme that requires cities to design their applications in such a way that not everyone is allowed to accept their applications on the basis of demands made by the parties – all, except the Progress Party – in the climate agreement. There was also an authority at the bottom of this, but this is now cleared out of the way. The criticism of the Railway Agency is, of course, in place. It was also last year, and when it comes to the Railway Agency, but also to the Road Administration, the Minister of Transport has announced – and has – reviews to get others and better practices on this. One has a point when it comes to the Railway Agency, which I would also like to make aware of, when the National Audit Office presented the case, that it is a railway supervision. That oversight would probably know something about the quality of the bridges that the Riksrevision criticized for. I understood that the Riksrevision would take a closer look at it when I asked that question in the meeting where they presented it. So I have a little problematization of two things in the end. The one thing is, of course, this with taxes. The National Auditorate has entered Skatt West and Skatt East etc. and the issues there, but I do not know that the Riksrevision enters the oil tax regime that we have, so that we in the Control and Constitutional Committee know how to follow up the legislation. These are huge amounts that kind of have their guidelines and policies, but it's very interesting if the Riksrevision can go in and see how this system works. Finally, a somewhat critical view of the Riksrevision, which I also take up with the National Auditor at regular intervals. This is what can be measured – whether everything is measurable, or whether it is something that has to do with quality that is undetectable. I think there's a job – that's what the National Auditor should think about. When, for example: has come a report on special education, is it possible to measure what quality is on it, when one knows that this is at student level, individual level? Is the area where you don't want to bet on getting a measurement, like an add-on? This with spes.ped. is one example. I think that would lead to people looking for even more areas to paint on. I think that's an unwise direction, and then there'll be less policy. This I want the National Auditor to focus on later. I would also, of course, like to make this point in the debate. That's not all that can be measured. The important thing is that we get a quality of what we're doing that we're happy with. Then we're back to the starting point: we have a government in Norway that's very good. We have a national audit that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e993	As the rapporteur for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Environment, I would like to make a few comments on these areas. In the past, the National Audit Office has made clear comments to the Ministry of Defence, and this is also the situation this year. What's the relationship, is that it's a unanimous committee that points out some key issues that I want to address. In the case of Defence Construction, the Riksrevision in the 2010 Annual Report notes that several aspects are repeated by the Riksrevision earlier. For example, since 2007 the Riksrevisions have been in breach of the procurement rules and lack of internal control since 2008. The National Audit Office points out that the Ministry has followed up various actions over the last few years and in 2010 the Swedish Defence Building Board closed down in order to provide clearer guidelines and strengthen the follow-up to its activities, and that the Ministry has established a high-level group on sound management, including: results in regular meetings of the Heads of State or Government. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision nevertheless notes that established measures and the follow-up by the Ministry of Defence through the governance dialogue have still not been sufficiently effective. The Committee further points out that the Riksrevision has a number of critical and serious comments on the follow-up of the administrative responsibility for the defence sector’s property, buildings and installations. The Committee assumes that the Court of Auditors' observations, criticisms and objections to the way defence buildings manage the property, construction and facilities of the defence sector are settled and that this is explained in future reports. As far as material management is concerned, a unanimous committee indicates that in recent years the Riksaudition has raised a number of critical issues concerning the material management of the Defence, which was addressed in particular in Document 3:9 for 2010–2011 and the related statement, Innst. 101 S for 2011-2012. The Committee pointed out that the Riksrevision revealed weaknesses in a number of areas and stressed that several of the problems could not be of a new date for the defence management, since the Riksrevision repeatedly criticised the Ministry of Defence and the Defence for these errors. The Committee would stress the importance of following up the ministry's promise to establish a complete and central material account. The National Audit Office's expectation that the Ministry will follow up the relationship with the Defence Management Dialogue must be respected. In the case of investment projects and power generation, there is also an overall committee which finds it inconsequential for the Ministry of Defence that the National Audit Office refers to delays by one year or more to 12 of 34 revised investment projects in the Defence Office. Two of these are still delayed by at least five years. The Committee agrees with the National Audit Office’s observation that delays in the delivery of material may have a negative impact on the operational capability of the Defence and that this has been the case for the Maritime Defence. We also show that the Riksrevision is critical of the army having significant personnel and material deficiencies. The National Audit Office records that a number of specific measures have been necessary to improve the Army’s achievement of its objectives measured against the main objectives of the current long-term plan. Furthermore, the Riksrevision notes that neither the Coast Guard nor the Coast Guard met the objectives of overall sailing activity in 2010 but that the Ministry of Defence considers that the main objectives for 2012 are within reach. The Committee asks the Ministry of Defence to ensure compliance with the objectives set for sailing activities. As far as business management is concerned, the Committee notes that the Riksrevision’s criticism of the investments made in its later years in a new integrated management system, which also includes an advanced financial and accounting system – FIF 2.0 – has not contributed to a greater degree to improving the quality of budget forecasts and economic governance. As one understands, there are quite clear comments from the Committee on the Ministry of Defence's use and management of its resources. It is a strong wish of the Committee that this should be improved so that we can have a situation in which one avoids getting such comments from its Committee. That's the Storting's clear opinion. In the case of the Ministry of the Environment, for which I also have the Rules of Procedure, the situation is different. We have noticed that there have been nine final audit letters issued without notice. It is exemplary, and we are pleased that the Ministry of the Environment has achieved such quality. In one area, which I will briefly mention, the Riksrevision has comments, and it is that the ministry has not reported in Prop. 1 S on the results of individual grant schemes. This is not under the Appropriations Regulation. We assume that the ministry will provide more effective reports where possible, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1029	In Document No: 1 are the weaknesses and shortcomings that are mentioned, and it is often the faults that we lack representatives first and foremost in our articles. I would therefore like to quote in the introduction some of what the Riksrevision says in its general comments: ‘The general impression is that central government is essentially responsible for social tasks and that Community funds are used in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Stortinge.’ I think it's important to have this as a backcloth, while of course it's not going to be a sleeping cushion to make improvements in the areas that the Riksrevision points to. Some areas and matters are repeaters in Document 1. This applies, inter alia, to: follow-up of public acquisitions, internal controls and grant management legislation, to name a few. The latter will come back broadly on a later matter. As the rapporteur in the field of justice, I would like to make a few comments on this matter in particular. The Directorate of Police and the Central Administration of Crime have received an audit letter with comments from the National Audit Office. The Directorate of Police has been given this for several years in a row, which the Committee considers to be not satisfactory. The police are responsible for ensuring the security and security of the population, and it is important that people have confidence in the police and that they do their job. The Riksrevision is included in the report. critical of whether overtime use in the police is effectively managed. A relationship drawn in that context is that while there are most recorded events on weekends, on the weekends, the staffing in the law departments is the lowest, only half of what it is in the week. The Committee is currently considering another case of the Riksrevision, concerning investigation of police work in the field of profit crime. Here it comes, among other things. until the percentage of information is too poor, and more people leave the matter unannounced, because they do not trust the police to care about the matter. These matters in the context indicate that there is not a good enough crew in the police, or that the crew may not be used in the best possible way. The National Audit Office believes that there is no clear strategy to achieve the manning goals of the Police and National Staff Council. However, it is positive that overall there was an increase in the number of police posts in 2010 and that admission to Police College has also increased. An overall committee expresses in its position expectations that the government will facilitate the achievement of the objective of two police officers per 1000 inhabitants in 2020. The National Audit Office also notes the activity offer to convictions, in particular in the case of short-term prisoners. Approximately two thirds of the sentences taken shall be sentenced to two months or less. This is at the same time the group of offenders where the rate of relapse is greater. The size has paid particular attention to this group and their activities. It is an important prevention effort for society as a whole to provide this group with good follow-up and activity during detention. The last point I want to comment on is the major differences in civil justice in terms of the organisation, processing time and size of the professional environments between and within the police districts. There are also major differences in education, real skills and practices between districts. These are factors that can lead to discrimination in matters such as: in the case of debt regimes, outlays, outlays following the Enforcement Act and compulsory cover in the case of movable property. The Committee is aware that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion are taking action in this area and we expect it to provide the necessary improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1053	As the Committee stresses in the suspension, the review and control of the national accounts by the Riksrevision is part of the constitutional control system of the Norwegian Constitution. It might be a good thing that we underline it. Good control and follow-up of the various grant schemes is essential to ensure that the assumptions and decisions of the Trustee are followed up. Let me add that I agree with both Kolberg and the representative Foss that we have a good administration. Norwegian administration is consistently good. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the staff of the departments for the job they were able to do in the days and weeks after July 22. Not only were they scattered throughout the city – they are still so far – but they lacked papers, equipment and most of it, and all the departments managed to obtain a budget. We who sat here, who made our demands and sent our questions to the departments all the time, also got the answers and the treatment we expected, and they were mostly on the go. I believe that the staff of the departments deserve to be commended. It also says a little about the Norwegian administration and the loyalty that lies in the bureaucracy. Then I'll just say something about the areas I've been the case rapporteur for, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' assistance management. Let me first say that only a few months have passed since the Committee on Control and Constitution had a major issue on the management and control of Norwegian development assistance by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was also based on a document from the National Audit Office. I therefore refer both to the adjustment and to the big debate that was then. The National Audit Office has in Document 1 inter alia: The vaccine alliance GAVI, one of the major success stories of international assistance. Hardly any other assistance organisation can refer to the same achievement as GAVI. GAVI – in cooperation with partners such as UNICEF – is unique in terms of achievement. Since its founding in 2000, GAVI has prevented and prevented more than five and a half million child deaths. Children have been protected against diseases and disability and can live full lives. GAVI has an advantage in terms of control, and that's that the alliance has a small administration. The National Audit Office points to the importance of good internal control systems for GAVI, including procedures to prevent and detect maladministration. It is underlined that GAVI as an organisation has systems to prevent and detect maladministration and corruption, and that the alliance assesses the risk of economic maladministration as low. From the Norwegian side, it is important that GAVI has zero tolerance for corruption and a good system to detect any financial maladministration. Let me add that this is essential for the GAVI to succeed further. We think Gavi is important. Norway has taken on a special responsibility to follow up its Millennium Development Goal No. 4 and 5, which are concerned with the fight against child mortality and the securing of assembly, i.e. to bring down the numbers of women who die in pregnancy. Of course, the two thousand-year targets are linked. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is following up the GAVI through the board of the Alliance, which will be chaired by Dagfinn Højbrätten as of that date. It is likely that more complicated are the other areas that the Riksrevision has gone through in terms of assistance. Assistance to Afghanistan is demanding. This was also the Committee's chairman. But we have committed ourselves – all the way back to the Bonn conference late in 2001 – to contributing to the construction and development of the country also with civil assistance, not only in military presence and stabilisation forces. Let me stress that there are two areas of Norwegian aid that need to be given priority in Afghanistan: the strengthening of women's human rights, and that is good governance, that is, good governance, and the fight against corruption. The total allocation for projects in Afghanistan in 2010 was 550 million. kr. The National Audit Board has audited projects with a total payment of 362 million. kr. I think we're all very aware of the problems we have, both in terms of security and in terms of corruption. However, the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision conclusion on the importance of good governance and follow-up — we actually stress that this is necessary — and that regardless of the country in which we operate, there must be zero tolerance in the area of corruption. With regard to Ethiopia, I believe that both the Committee on Control and Constitution and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy should be extra vigilant with regard to the developments we are seeing. Increasing violations of human rights are also a problem and a dilemma in providing assistance to this country. I am also responsible for the Ministry of Labour and Nav. Here, too, there's a lot of money in circulation. Nav manages around 320 billion annually. kr. That's one third of the state budget. Both the Ministry and the National Audit Office stress that the Nav reform has been demanding. I'm not going to go into detail about this right now. I would like to refer to the hearing held by the Committee on 15 January 2010 and also to the recent report by the Riksrevision of the Stortinget, which will be discussed in the Committee during the spring. Let me just add by this crossroads that it is absolutely necessary to ensure a functioning and integrated ICT solution for Nav. If you don't get it done, there will still be problems in the work and welfare kit. This applies to other establishments and institutions as well. the situation in Oslo University Hospital, which is also suffering from a lack of a common ICT system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1087	I would first like to comment on the departments for which I am the rapporteur, and then I would like to make a few comments to some other departments. In the case of Document 1 for 2011–2012, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is a repetition, and the same themes remain. That's not good. The report addresses a number of serious issues. In order to make concrete progress, there are still challenges in the definition of child support. The national audit is critical that there is uncertainty as to whether the child contribution is correctly calculated in 42 pst. by the cases checked, and that the period of procedure for the establishment of child contributions and contribution advances is twice that of the standard period of two months. According to the National Audit Office’s assessment, the situation is serious because, in many cases, child support is necessary for the child’s maintenance. The Committee shares this view and assumes that this work is a priority. It is also unfortunate that priority has not been given to upgrading the contribution calculator that should have contributed to the correct distribution of costs between the parents. There is an overall committee that requests that, no later than the submission of the 2013 State Budget, the status of the work to clean up these matters should be reported. The case-handling time of child protection and social issues in the county councils is also a repetition. There is still a long procedure in the counties. The subjects have been in nearly 90 p.m. of cases, a period of time in excess of the four-week objective of the Law on the Protection of the Child. It is now necessary to take account of this, and the Committee believes that the department must step up its efforts and have an active follow-up to this field. I would also like to mention that there have been significant failures in the purchasing processes in Bufetat. Finally, under this department, I would like to mention MultifunC, which is also a repetition of the reports, where capacity utilisation is still struggling. So there's enough of things the new government council of the department can take care of. So to the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church and its underlying businesses. In its comments, the Committee noted that several of the county authorities have still not established risk management as an integral part of target and performance management. The consequence of the lack of risk management may be an increased risk of a reduction in the achievement of the target in relation to the assumptions of the Storting and the low efficiency of the use of State resources, as well as violations of laws and regulations. This is critical, and we must assume that the Department is following the measures outlined and that it is ensured that the introduction of risk management will be a priority for all counties. With regard to the Departments' Service Centre, DSS, there are, in particular, the significant deficiencies in the information security area that I would like to highlight. Although this has been mentioned earlier, there have been no significant improvements in the field. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has therefore addressed this in letters to the Council of State — and received a supplementary response, as referred to in the referral. The answer explains the work that has been done and what needs to be done. The Committee calls for the Stortinge to be properly informed about the progress of this work. Finally, under this department, I will mention the Information Society Fund. OVF manages real estate and financial assets to the benefit of the Norwegian Church. There are shortcomings in the fact that risk management systems are not established and that the necessary policies for the activity of subsidiaries are not available. We look forward to this being corrected in 2012. So some comments to the other departments. As regards the Ministry of Health and Welfare, we welcome the fact that the Committee's earlier observations that the period of treatment of Norwegian patients' claims has been too long have been taken into account. Although there has been an increase in the number of cases, the length of proceedings has been reduced. However, the objective of time management has not been achieved, so that the time-reduction measures should be maintained and intensified. With regard to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, I would like to point out in particular that the National Audit Office has had comments on the management of the investment grant by the House Bank for nursing homes and nursing homes. It is worrying that only one third of the commitments have been made. The activity target for 2010 was an increase of 2 500 care homes and hospitalisation sites, while reporting shows an increase of only 948 housing units. In addition to low activity, it has been found that the Husbank’s follow-up and reporting system for the investment grant does not seem sufficient. Nursing homes and nursing homes are an important area for the Advancement Party, and we believe that this must be given special attention in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1123	Document 1 is an important document. It has a long experience from big business and government told me. So I want to say that the work done by the National Audit Office in this regard is very important for the way in which we are both going to implement and pursue the policy. It is also important, of course, as a preliminary basis for the control to be exercised by the Stortinget, so I share the view of the representative Foss that Document 1 is a good reading, and that is important reading both for bigots representatives and government councils. The main point, as I see it, is that we should contribute jointly through Document 1 and through the treatment of Document 1 to improve governance, so that confidence in the implementation of policies is increased. I guess it's also important that we underline it, because often it's that the criticism gets the most headlines, while what's in order, very often gets less gaping space in the newspapers. I am therefore pleased with what has been said by several representatives, that the administration is doing a good job throughout. Now I'm not going to prejudge the debate in the next case, which is case no. 5, but let me nevertheless show that case no. 5 about ROS -- or reorganization of the tax rate, as it's called in full -- is a good example of what I'm saying now. We all agree that having a good and well-functioning tax rate that has a high level of trust is essential, both for, of course, obtaining the revenues that are so important for operating the different systems of the state and the community, and for having a tax rate that is highly reliable is also important for several other reasons. In other words, this is a good example of what I would call the interaction between the control committee, the accumulation and the government in the job we're doing in playing each other good to make sure that this works in a good way. Then the representative of Kolberg had some comments relating to the accounts of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. This is an item in KRD’s own accounts for 2010 that relates to the advance payment. There I have been informed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that one has now tightened up the procedures, and that one has prepared the procedures in this area. With regard to the investment grant from the House Bank to the nursing homes of the lucky day, I have also been informed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that they will follow this up, and that this will be followed up in the management dialogue with the House Bank – and that one has also cleared up in another aspect mentioned in the National Audit Office's report, linked to the House Bank and the VAT law practice. Finally, I would like to say that a person now has a clear division of work and role in relation to the control bodies and control activities of the State pension fund. It's important. It is good that it is now underlined in the Committee's Commentary and that one now assumes that the division of roles laid down by the Storting should function on the basis of the assumptions. I agree with the comments made by the Committee unanimously on this point, which have been underlined in the debate. One also mentions a special relationship with the State pension fund abroad. This is why one does not report the real return in Norwegian kroner. As an example of what I was talking about initially, the Ministry of Finance will present the announcement of SPU's business for 2011 on Friday. In that message, we will expand the reporting. There will also be figures for income in Norwegian krona — and in other currencies — adjusted for inflation. In other words, there will be a more complete reporting of real returns in the SPU. It's an example that we can play each other better through the business we're discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1140	Let me first join what the Minister of Finance just said, and thank you for the good words that have come about Norwegian administration. I believe that the process we are now engaged in, i.e. co-operative magnification, national audit and administration, the very way of getting better and better, and that in this way we can live up to our ambition to be the world's best country. It just requires that type of dialogue. Then I want to say, to play back a little bit about Per-Kristian Foss's advice to new state councils – if I can still count on a little new – that I have had the privilege of reading Document 1 for many years, and I can confirm that it is useful background knowledge to lead the management of a large sector as the defence sector. Last Friday I presented the government's proposal for a new long-term plan for the defence sector. There we made it clear that strategic management of competence will be a key area of the coming years. The government will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for a paper on skills reform. We do this – and I mention it here – because there are still areas where the defence sector needs better and more appropriate skills. It is also necessary to improve the interaction with the civil sector in order to achieve this competence. The Court of Auditors' observations refer to several of the areas that illustrate this. Good management and internal control are fundamental prerequisites for the proper conduct of activities. We have therefore put in place a number of measures to further improve governance, internal control and achievement of objectives in the defence sector. This is a long-term and extensive work, but it has given, and yields, results over time. I would like to stress of course that the defence sector must manage its funds in a good and effective way. The whole sector shall comply with the legislation laid down. A comprehensive and robust internal control system shall ensure the appropriate and effective use of Community resources and contribute to compliance with laws and regulations. In view of that, not least, the representative Lundtigen pulled out, I would like to mention the following: the material accounts of the defence are subject to close follow-up by my side and from the highest administrative level in the Ministry of Defence. Fortunately, today it is easier for both us and the National Audit Office to check the situation. Because we're not going back so many years until we didn't have this kind of total material accounts at all. I would like to stress that the Chief of Defense informs us that the defense is now in good control of its material. In this context, material checks mean that the material is accounted for and that regular recordings of the material are carried out. Let me also put this in perspective: the defence currently has a stock of over 638 000 different articles in the SAP IT system. For each of these different articles, a very high number of unique copies of each article exist. In addition, the defense has approx. 1650 different articles in peripheral systems used outside SAP but also part of the Defence Integrated Management System, FIF 2.0. With the further development of this system – to FIF 3.0 – the number of peripheral systems will be significantly reduced. At the same time, the defence informs us that there is something newly acquired material, both centrally and locally, that has not yet been registered in the SAP. The same applies to material that is to be disposed of soon. There are 40000 daily transactions in the SAP system. Work on updating the material accounts is a continuous process. The legislation is in place, and this legislation should, of course, be followed. I have noticed the Riksrevision's findings related to weaknesses in the procedures for so-called operating acquisitions. This is otherwise fully consistent with the findings of our own internal audit. Let me therefore once again underline this: acquisitions into the defence sector will be carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation. The Ministry of Defence has established a clear framework for acquisitions, which is also confirmed by the National Audit Office. As I see it, there is incomplete compliance that is the challenge. As mentioned at the outset, this will be followed up, inter alia. as part of the notified competence reform. The Committee rightly points out that a good IT tool such as SAP, which can help prevent defaults and errors, must be used. Proper use of the main SAP process is an area where the defence has achieved significant improvements only in the last year. I have been informed by the head of defense that the share of acquisitions that followed the main process in February 2012, measured in the number of invoices, is up to 71 p.m. In 2011, and so far in 2012, we can see clear results of targeted work and clear leadership involvement – in line with previous references from the Riksrevision. The main reason for most of the delays in investment projects to which the Riksaudition refers relates to matters for which the suppliers are responsible. These are relationships that the Defense is to little or no degree able to influence. Delays in material supplies may have a negative impact on operational capability if older systems are phased out before new phases are introduced. In such specific cases, the Department and the Defence Management shall assess the need for the implementation of compensatory measures where necessary. Conversion costs. As I mentioned earlier from this pulpit: Many conversion caps hurt before they start paying off, but they're still right. We therefore informed the Stortinget in the current long-term plan – i.e. for the period 2009-2012 – about the following: ‘First years of the period’ – 2009–2010 — ‘will be particularly challenging and require special care and control in its implementation. This is due to the somewhat delayed structural development of the current long-term planning period. [[2005-2008]] On the other hand, the plan concluded that the years 2011 and 2012 would show a marked improvement in the operational situation. Now we see that this is happening. We're reaching the goals by the end of the long-term plan this year. In this context, I record the Committee's concerns relating to the Army and the Maritime Defense and therefore believe that this concern is no longer necessary. Through solid defence efforts in the field of internal efficiency improvement, as well as budgetary strengthening in 2011 and 2012, we have already achieved a marked positive development in the operational capability of the Army. In fact, the activity level in 2011 was higher than we estimated in the 2011 budget. In the same way as for the Army, the strengthening of the revised 2011 national budget enabled the structure of the Maritime Defence Agency to provide the high level of activity planned at the end of 2012 as early as 2011. I cannot see that the referenced delays in the delivery of material have had a negative impact on the defence's ability to place relevant and requested capacities on operations, either at home or outside. The feedback we get from what the Defense actually delivers confirms this. Nevertheless, it is right to look at what we can do with delays in deliveries from outside. We therefore warn in the proposal for a new long-term plan that we are also looking at the possibility of acquiring more fully developed ‘welfare’ – i.e. that we are seeking to avoid Norwegian specifications diverging too much from those used in countries where it is natural to compare ourselves with. In addition, the economic situation in Europe means that many countries now have to cut or postpone planned investments. In several places, we see that the central allies cancel material that has already been produced. For a country like Norway, with good purchasing power and a significant investment budget, this can open up opportunities for us to purchase good products at a favourable price and at the right time. The Swedish Peace Research Institute SIPRI has just pointed out that Norway is currently the country throughout the EU/EEA area which imports the most defence-related material – not per capita but in absolute terms. At the same time, we are pursuing an active industrial policy that builds up under our own arms industry. The Norwegian arms industry has had a formidable growth in recent years. This is a positive trend. We buy products where we get the best material at the best price, while promoting the sale of Norwegian high-tech products abroad. Many other countries buy much more goods nationally and pay for it with a lower quality/price ratio. Norway actively supports the promotion of a more open defence market in Europe through the European Defence Agency, the EDA, and through the NATO Smart Defence initiative, which deals with more transnational cooperation, inter alia. on material development. Norway has clear, offensive interests in this area. For all projects, however, we in Norway have had a very strict external quality assurance regime since 2000. The Ministry of Finance accompanies the use with the eyes of the argus. It may sometimes seem somewhat delayed, but it also ensures that our investment projects are much better quality assurance than they were until 10–15 years ago. For the same reason, we have also seen no major exceedances of any of the major material assets that have been started since this new regime came into place. The introduction of a new coherent and comprehensive wage and accounting system in the Defence has contributed to a greater degree of financial control and traceability. This has led to significant improvements and improvements in the efficiency of activities. The National Audit Office has also pointed out these positive changes. The defence indicates that close follow-up of the forecast work has been undertaken in order to increase the forecast quality. The Ministry of Defence has followed up this work, with a particular focus on those departments that had the greatest weaknesses in their forecasts in 2010. Accounting figures indicate clear improvements in 2011. The Ministry of Defence is also following up Defence Buildings in the State Government, as is also evident from the response of the then Minister of Defence Faremo in Document 1. Responsible administration is one of the main objectives that the Ministry has set for Defence Building. Defence buildings have launched and implemented a number of key actions from the top management level. These are carefully followed up, also by the department and by me personally. At the same time, I note that it takes time for the measures to be fully effective in Defence Buildings. The Ministry of Defence agrees that defence buildings must be able to demonstrate the state of the building stock. This relationship is closely followed up in the governance dialogue, with detailed objectives and milestones. Visualisation requirements for improving the efficiency of defence-building services are also followed up by the ongoing establishment management. Finally, I have noticed the criticism from the National Audit Office and the Committee's comments on the accounts for 2010, and I will follow them up and follow them up. At the same time, I would like to remind you that developments in the last year have been positive, and that I have a lot of attention in this area, with a view to further improving administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1196	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1210	There is an overall committee which supports the review of the Riksrevision's review of the reorganisation of the tax haven. The National Audit Office’s study of the reorganisation of the tax haven, the so-called ROS, which was handed over to the Stortinget on 6 December last, shows that one of the largest reorganisations carried out in the public sector for many years has to be said in many ways to have been very successful. It is a major and comprehensive work that has been carried out since Stortinget decided to reorganise in the autumn of 2007. Between January 2008 and December 2009, the tax base was almost completely reorganised — from three levels of government to directorate and tax information and its own oil tax office. The aim of the reorganisation was, of course, to facilitate better resource use, but not least to equip itself to better meet tax crime challenges. Another important point was the need for professional and good guidance for taxpayers. It is this reorganisation that the Riksrevision has entered into and examined whether it has achieved the objectives set at the time of the adoption of the reorganisation. The National Audit Office’s assessment is that reorganisation in significant areas has led to improved tax management. Reference is made to the strengthening of the tax-crime units in the regions, the creation of the tax information and the emphasis on the guidance function in the tax offices. The National Audit Office also notes that it is positive that the primary activities of the tax administration were carried out at specified deadlines during the reorganisation period. But the Riksrevision also points to a number of objectives that have not been achieved. A central objective of strengthening the control of traders and companies has not been achieved. The complaint procedure in the complaints subjects takes too long, and the tax information gives too poor answers to the users. The Committee agrees with these comments and asks the Ministry to rectify them as soon as possible. However, let me elaborate on this last point, not least because an overall committee has been concerned that the relationship with the user needs to be improved. The National Audit Office points to two significant weaknesses in the tax information that should be the tax haven's link to users. One is the waiting time, with which users are not satisfied, especially during press periods. Now it's not that the waiting time on the phone or in any other way what I would call the world on average, but for most of us, it doesn't help much if the waiting time, when the bill comes, gets too long and to some extent very long. And now, when we've seen that Altin also collapses when the pressure gets too big – that is, when the announcement is sent out – I and a joint committee believe that this is a problem area that now obviously has to be taken seriously. It must be expressed from this pulpit that it is unacceptable that Altin does not function as intended, taking into account the treatments the Storting has also had of this issue and the appropriations given in this area. I'm now recording that the ALTIN again is in function, but nevertheless, this kind of event we should of course have been ahead of us. The second factor pointed to by the National Audit Office, which, in the Committee's view, is serious, is that taxpayers do not always receive correct information. Of course, it doesn't matter at all. A taxpayer who addresses the Tax Information must receive correct answers. To this end, the Committee, like the National Audit Office, considers that action must be taken by the Agency to ensure that users receive adequate guidance. On behalf of an overall committee, I would like to stress once again that the reorganization of the tax rate has largely been successful, as I have said. In this context, the Committee also refers to what the Civil Ombudsman says in its 2010 Annual Report: ‘With some initial difficulties, the general impression is that the new tax rate is working well.’ As far as non-operation is concerned, the Committee has noted that the Ministry is essentially in agreement with the National Audit Office and that the improvements — such as: the handling of complaints and the increased control of traders – that is why it will now be implemented. Finally, in line with what the Minister of Finance said in the previous case, I say that it is of course very important that we have a well-functioning tax rate. We have it today, and the Committee notes with satisfaction that the Department is working actively to correct the weaknesses that are already there and that are pointed out by the National Audit Office and to which the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is joining.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1239	As the rapporteur said, it is a unanimous attitude, and I just want to elaborate on a few points. I would also like to start by saying that implementation in essential areas has led to improved tax administration. Nevertheless, this reform has led to a significant discussion and involvement with a number of local authorities. What has been the motivation is that one has felt both that the tax administration has lost significant qualities in relation to proximity and that it has also had a size that has made it unable to provide the necessary assistance at the time that people need it. As we know, this is with taxes that vary greatly over the year, in the sense that there are parts of the year where there is a lot of progress in people's consciousness, other periods spend a little less time on it. The main findings of the Riksrevision were also that there was a lack of planning for the large reorganization of the tax rate in the period 2008-2009, resulting in a weakening of basic competence, a lack of interaction with public institutions and production below the desired level. As noted above, the Riksrevision concluded that there was too little quality in responses provided in guidance and still too long procedural periods for complaints. What I would like to mention in particular is the experience of major state reforms and reorganisation – that better planning is needed and with better time before implementation begins. The National Audit Office has once again demonstrated that it was not the case in this major reform, and according to the National Audit Office, it turns out here that there is once again a state centralisation reform which later demonstrates that key assumptions and objectives for the reorganisation were not achieved, including: in the case of administrative resources, whether they are reduced or not. The national audit concludes that there is an uncertain data base that makes it generally difficult to compare the use of resources in the tax rate before and after the reorganisation. I would like to stress the importance of measuring and evaluating the key assumptions and objectives of state reorganisations with the best possible numerical basis in retrospect, which should otherwise be the basic knowledge of those responsible in any state agency. I find it serious that key assumptions about measurement for ROS cannot be measured, evaluated and verified. Finally, I assume that the Minister of Finance is closely following developments in the tax system. It is an incredibly substantial work that must have been accepted by the general public, and it is a type of job that can also be decentralised with benefit. I hope that the Minister of Finance can put that perspective into further work, so that we do not experience enough centralisation in an area that can be decentralised favourably, put where we have stable labour force and young people who want to work in this department.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1250	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1264	Let me first thank the Committee for good cooperation in the preparation of this vote, and then say a few words about the main content of the draft constitution itself. The proposal is based on the idea of introducing a system of positive parliamentaryism combined with the right of dissolution. Positive parliamentaryism is based on a system in which Parliament actively supports the creation of a new government, and that the majority that supports this formation of government is part of the parliamentary majority base of any government in such a system must have. The proposal takes the floor to say that it is the Prime Minister who is dependent on the active support of the Storting. The right of dissolution in this proposal means that under certain conditions the government can dissolve Parliament and announce new elections. In Norway, we have a long tradition of benefiting from the benefits — and disadvantages — of negative parliamentaryism. In short, this means that a government or a member of government may sit if the government or the Council of State does not meet mistrust from the Stortinget. The Committee considers it important that a person think in the long term when assessing constitutional changes. It is also important that such changes are not implemented on the basis of short-term policy motives. However, an individual must be able to use experience as a basis for assessing the need for change. The Committee considers that there are few constitutional crises in Norwegian history that would find a better solution if one had introduced an investment. In some contexts, it can actually be argued that the absence of investment has helped to resolve situations that could trigger a constitutional crisis. It is enough that any parliamentary system will have weaknesses that will emerge under certain circumstances. The question is therefore whether investment will lead to a significant improvement in the constitutional relationship with the current system. My conclusion is that this will not be the case. It is also difficult to see future scenarios where investment will play a decisive positive role in the development of our democracy. On the issue of giving the government the right of dissolution, it brings up some fundamental and fundamental challenges. In this area, there are other right-wing comments. Although such a system is well known from many other parliamentary systems, it can be argued that it would not improve democracy to give the indirectly elected executive the right to dissolve the country's elected assembly. The starting point is that the voters at the election constitute the country's top elected authority. It selects the Storting to represent its interests. Regardless of whether you have positive or negative parliamentaryism, it would mean a whole new starting point for Norwegian democracy if the non-elected government were to be able to dissolve the elected assembly. Nor is there any obvious relationship here, in my opinion, that will significantly strengthen Norwegian democracy. Proposals for investment and resolution rights have been dealt with by the Stortinget in the past. At the last reading, in May 2007, the proposal received a majority but did not reach a qualified majority. It shows that it is important to use time to discuss major changes in the relationship between state powers, for this time it seems that the proposal will be rejected — perhaps unanimously. This has been a simplified and rapid review of the relationship between investment and the right to dissolve, but I assume that more people may need to say something more about their own relationships to this proposal. I would therefore recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party support the attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which is unanimous, in today's vote, which means that the proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1285	It is true, as the rapporteur has said, that it is a unanimous committee. The discussion has also been unanimous – to use such an expression. However, the matter is of such a nature that I want to express the views of the Workers' Party in the matter. Our democratic system is based on a principle of sharing power between the legislative, the executive and the judiciary. It is precisely the distribution of power between the legislative and the executive powers this proposal is really about. The Labour Party believes that investment and dissolution rights are interrelated, as the proposers also believe. When a majority has supported the formation of a government, it is a reasonable strengthening of the government’s position towards the Storting that it is equipped with a new means of power, namely the possibility of printing new elections if it is defeated in the Storing – and its political basis is gone. However, the proposal states that this can only happen if the government has notified in advance that this will result if the government is distrusted or loses a vote after having asked cabinet questions. We are therefore pleased that a Joint Committee has chosen to deal with the matter in line with the intention of the proposers to link investment with disintegration – that is a proper procedure. The proposers justify their proposal on positive parliamentaryism and the right to dissolve, inter alia: that a government which has to seek an alternate majority on a case-by-case basis will weaken its action. It was also in long periods of reality – with minority governments experiencing such a development. The Labour Party then considered, as well as now, that a minimum of authority to the National Assembly is necessary in order for a government to be able to act. The proposal to introduce investment and resolution rights is precisely designed to address this issue. However, when the Labour Party is in agreement with the majority to reject the proposal, it is anchored in several respects. The overall idea is that long-term, as the representative Anundsen said, needs to be considered when assessing constitutional changes. Nor should these changes be motivated by short-term policy positions. The proposal we are examining now will undoubtedly bring about fundamental changes if it is adopted. The working party will therefore reject the proposal at this stage, as indicated in the vote. But I can assure you that in the future we will assess, and with the utmost seriousness, whether today's system is in line with our basic idea of how society should be governed in line with the constitutional principles. What we must take into account in this process is that today's system has also resulted in the country's having varying governments with varying parliamentary support. The striking thing is, however, how stable the management of our country has been. In other words, the absence of investment has also given us governments who would not have had the necessary majority, but who have nevertheless functioned satisfactorily, as the case-law rapporteur also stated. Similarly, it is not certain that a collapse after a new choice due to the right of dissolution would give a result that deviated to a particular degree. In that case, the result would be a big one that still wouldn't find a solution. The working party is of the opinion that the balance of power between accumulation and government is initially good. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that in Norway we have a long tradition of ensuring that the country receives a government even in difficult parliamentary situations. It is therefore in no way necessary to take this major step – the proposal that we have been presented here today – with the introduction of investment and the right of dissolution. This does not mean, however, that the Labour Party will not be able to look at this matter differently in the future. On this basis, I would recommend that the Workers' Group vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1304	For the sake of order: does the President regard the recommendation of the representative of Kolberg as voting against the proposal as a recommendation to vote in favour of the vote – so that we are correct in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1307	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1312	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1315	I can open up by saying that my recommendation to the Right Group is exactly the same, to support the vote, and that the proposal is not acceptable. I have previously, on behalf of several in the Right, been the proposer of the proposal for a limited right of dissolution – i.e. a constitutional proposal – in order to ensure a minimum of authority for governments. I still believe so, but such a proposal is not now available in this period of voting. The present proposal is therefore a combination of resolution and investment – a deployment decision. It will be an innovation in Norwegian statehood. Today, the Storting does not vote for a government's declaration of accession or for a given composition of government parties, i.e. a coalition. In the opinion of the Right, this should remain the case. Our proposal from the past is to restore the balance between state powers in a limited right of dissolution, not to weaken parliamentary freedom and flexibility, which this proposal will, in my view, make. A decision to insert does not necessarily ensure stability when policy meets strong counter-powers, and this may be the case, for example. in times of economic hardship. Then it can be difficult for coalitions to maintain cohesion and maintain the upswing. In other words, investment cannot prevent populism. It's an experience I'm not going to elaborate on, but it has historical parallels from more recent times. On this basis, I repeat that I recommend the right representatives to vote in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1324	Since Norway is one of the few — at least comparable — countries that do not have some kind of right of dissolution, it is necessary to ask whether this is really a serious defect in our constitution. When everyone else has it, why don't we have it in spite of the fact that Norwegian democracy in other contexts has been referred to as the best of the world? Maybe it's about, when it comes to everything, a little beauty spot that our founding fathers on the move didn't come to fix. The Christian People's Party will not support the proposals as they exist. It's essentially that we haven't seen the great need for such a scheme. Norway has a fairly stable and well-functioning parliamentary democracy, and there have been no major problems in forming governance. The Norwegian parliamentary system has had time to sit down. It's important to underline. Introducing a new element into a system that works well is not just unproblematic. This is particularly true in the absence of a revised constitutional proposal that could bring together all, or most, representatives. Disintegration still appears to be a foreign element of the Norwegian parliamentary system – yes, something unhealthy, simply. Then you can’t avoid noticing that both of the existing basic laws in the main rationale are motivated by a desire to ensure that minority governments with weak power of action and perhaps also a staggering tendency to big business. This is quite clear at the beginning of the proposals that there are minority governments with a weakened power of action that you want to guard against. The proposal on the introduction of the right of dissolution, one proposal, coupled with the introduction of so-called investment, or the adoption of a decision, would assure us against this. The proposals in many ways bear the mark of being promoted more or less as a result of what one experiences as an unfortunate development, with minority governments with impaired power of action. Now there may be different opinions on how minority governments have worked in Norway in the last decades. For the Christian People's Party, however, it is clear that experience over the past 40 years has clearly shown that a country can be ruled steadily and that major and important decisions can be made, including with minority governments. Norway is at the top of wealth development and one of the world’s best countries to live in. It does not seem that a tradition of minority governments has acted as a brake block on this development. It is true, as the proposers point out, that Norway has a tradition of many and active parties making lists in elections to the Stortinget. That we have a diverse party spectrum, with many vital party movements, must be seen exclusively as a major asset for the country. This, of course, makes it more demanding to establish majority governments or coalitions, to which the proposers point. But from there to draw the conclusion that the right of dissolution should be a means of making it easier to form majority governments, seems somewhat strange to me. We don't necessarily get fewer parts by printing new ones. What you can achieve is a change of strength between them. From one page set, printing new selections is an expression of a kind of resignation. In a situation where the elected representatives are unable to reach a sufficient consensus, they also choose to send the ball back to the voters and ask them to sort it out instead. But it means in height that you give yourself a new chance, and there's no guarantee that it'll get easier after a re-election. You could also risk messing it up even worse. A proposal to introduce investment could be considered to have a discriminatory effect. The proposal advocates positive parliamentaryism, in the form that Parliament must give active support to a particular Prime Minister candidate, who can then be appointed by the King and then elect his members of the Government. So far in Norway's parliamentary history, there have been few constitutional crises in which one would find a better solution if one had invested. However, the absence of investment may have contributed to the establishment of governments which would otherwise not receive sufficient support from Parliament to be deployed in the event of investment, but which have nevertheless functioned satisfactorily. In this way, one might also argue that the absence of investment has strengthened parliamentary freedom of action and hindered the development of individual constitutional crises. A long tradition of minority governments can, of course, easily lead to the conclusion that this is the way it should be – although in the last six years it has probably turned a little upside down. I don't think one should be tempted to impersonate minority governments – let me say that. We realize absolutely that a majority government can have advantages, among other things. by clarifying the division of responsibilities between maggots and governments and by getting more predictable conditions by avoiding uncertainties as to whether or not a government proposal is adopted. On the other hand, there are also specific demands on how a majority government should deal with the Storting and ensure that the power and influence of the Storing are not weakened. It is understandable – let me also say – that when a majority government has started from several parties through intensive and internal processes to arrive at compromise solutions, it may be at risk of becoming immune to even minor adjustments when matters reach the Stortinget. It is unfortunate if this means that wider policy solutions are also prevented in cases where there would be an advantage for the country for several parties to support a decision. The process and debate are moved from more open dialogue between the government and the government to more closed processes in the government quarter. I'll end by saying that everything in all, we're about to admit that no system is perfect, and that there may be advantages and disadvantages associated with different alternatives. But ultimately, it is about being open, listening and, above all, looking for solutions that can appear to be as robust as possible. This applies in general and above all in matters related to the Constitution. Finally, I would recommend my fellow representatives from the Christian People's Party to support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1350	I also have a clear recommendation – to the Left Group. I think almost I can guarantee that we are going to vote against the proposal. There is a long parliamentary tradition behind the regime we have today. I believe that we should have confirmed it more strongly in our constitution, that we should have had formulations relating to our parliamentaryism in the Constitution, but I do not think that we should change, as proposed here today. First of all, with investment. I believe that the focus of the Norwegian Parliament has always been linked to the political solutions, and not to who holds the jobs. That is why the Norwegian Parliament has also developed a long settlement tradition, which is unique. In broad and important cases, we have a long tradition of entering into conciliation across policy lines. This settlement tradition seems to me to have brought Norway forward. We have managed to reach a broad consensus on major and important issues, so that there are no major political conflicts in the big grips of the future. I think that's good for the country, and I think it's good for respect for this hall. The fact that we've been able to live with minority governments, who have been able to bring the similarities as a tradition, is one of the foundations. When we don't focus on investment, but we focus on what policies the individual government actually presents to Parliament, and if you get a pass and a majority for the different political proposals you have, you have a completely different and much healthier focus, you ask me, where you try to find the broad, good solutions instead of arguing about who is going to drive the black cars or sit on the front row. I think that's a good focus: we don't have investment in Norway. Actually, there are traditions linked to the Presidency law that are left in our Parliament, and this works well as it is today. It doesn't mean that we're in principle opposed to majority governments, sail if I think there are very few who are willing to go on trains to always get majority rule. Nor do I believe that the time we have now had with majority rule has increased respect for Parliament, respect for the debates here and respect for the proposals made by other parties. I just notice that the Left daily promotes proposals in this room, and has done so for seven years soon, but there won't be a majority for one. I refuse to believe that all the proposals that have been made on behalf of a political party for seven to eight years are stupid. It might have something to do with what tradition you've applied to majority government: that you're basically opposed to proposals that everyone else has. I do not think that is good for Parliament, I do not think it is good for democracy, and I do not think it is good for solutions for the country, either. If you are to stick with majority governments, you must at least stick with majority governments with a certain democratic mindset and a certain respect for this hall. It's important. Then to the resolution right. I think you can find reasons for investment, but to find reasons for right of dissolution, I actually think you have to look even further. Either that means that a government has mistrusted Parliament or that politicians have mistrusted their people. I don't think any of the parts are very charming. If the government is going to print this new election, it means that the government has distrusted its own parliament. I believe that power should come from Parliament and not from the government. If Parliament is going to call for new elections, it is the politicians who have mistrusted their own people and say that you have chosen mistakes, you probably have to choose another one, because we are not going to rule on the basis of the composition that you have given us – which I also believe is fundamentally wrong. Politicians cannot have mistrusted their own people. When one sees these two things together, investment and dissolution, one can look at the parliaments that practice these two principles and see how they are different from the Norwegian Parliament. One of the differences is the broad similarities. Another difference is that there are probably two big parties fighting each other, and you get a stronger monopoly. There's probably someone in this room who could have wanted, a world with just two parties, but if you look at the democratic participation in countries with just two parties, it goes down dramatically. If you look at the respect for politicians in the two party systems, it also goes down because you get focus on conflict and not on political solutions. [[Uro in the Chamber.]] In sum, I hope it didn't disturb people in the hall – when you see these two things together, the Norwegian parliament in that tradition weakened, weakened people's respect for the job we're going to do, and that would have weakened the political solutions. That's why the Left is going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1369	The party supporting the option, which has been submitted by several parties, is unanimous. It is a little special that there is a unanimous committee that rejects a proposal from former central representatives of the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the SV. Right of dissolution and positive parliamentaryism, or investment, are linked. If the Government is entitled to dissolve the Grand Duchy, it is appropriate to introduce, in return, a requirement that a majority of the national Parliament should stand behind a newly formed government. It's an investment. As several have said, similar proposals have been dealt with several times in the past, but have never received sufficient majority. It is also clear that, in our parliamentary history, few constitutional crises would have been better managed if the proposal had been introduced earlier. The absence of investment has strengthened parliamentary freedom of action and hindered the development of individual constitutional crises. The democratic challenges have been addressed in a good way, including: because parties have not been forced to actively support a government they do not really want, because this in the next round prevents the dissolution of the Storting. The right of dissolution means that under certain conditions the government can dissolve the Storting. It can only be used in the case of constitutional crises as set out in the proposal, for example. not agreeing on the Prime Minister that there has been a majority in favour of a motion of censure or that there have been cabinet issues that have led to the failure of the Government. The central party's assessment is that our system is a good system. It is stable, it provides the basis for a diversity of parties, and it provides the basis for exercising a leadership that is not least necessary in the future, where we are facing decisions that may be unpopular in the short term, and which is why it is important that we have certainty that the Storing can follow up further. The old slogan of the centre party ‘Growth is not to be consumed any more, but to manage better’ is not least a slogan that, if it is to be put into practice, requires stability and requires a collapse that has the necessary firmness and firmness, sail whether it will in the short term lead to criticism from parts of the population. So we have good experience and we don't see the need to change our system based on the experience we've seen so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1386	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1400	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1409	I am pleased to note that an overall judicial committee is committed to preventing, combating, investigating and punishing acts of violence in our society. The Committee has been particularly concerned with the rights of the victims. These rights have helped the Committee, together with the Government, to strengthen over several years. The terrorist attack on the government quarter and on Utøya July 22, 2011 hit a large number of people. Those who were on Utøya and in the government quarter account for nearly 700 people. In addition, the victim who was found elsewhere, as well as the survivors, relatives and those who helped save lives and minimize the damage. These included a large number of losses and damages for which they are entitled to compensation and upliftment. This places great demands on society's propriety and legal sense and the system's robustness and capacity. For a long time, the Committee has been in close contact with the Ministry of Justice and Defence both before the proposals presented in this proposal were sent to the hearing and in the work on the Innst. 150 S for 2011-2012 on the proposal for a representative of the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party on amendments to the Act on the Compensation of Victims and the establishment of a Victim Care Service. We have worked together to care for the interests of the victims, relatives, survivors and other victims in the best possible way. I would like to mention that today we will: raising the maximum level of compensation for violence from 40 G to 60 G, decide to open up in order that more persons may apply for compensation to be strength-enhanced and left open for participation in legal proceedings to appoint coordinating counsel The Committee points out that the objectives of the proposals in the proposal are to ensure the appropriate and satisfactory implementation of the criminal case and the proper handling of compensation and redress requirements resulting from the terrorist attack. The Committee would stress the general nature of the proposals. No special law is therefore proposed for the 22nd of July applications. The government fraction indicates that under the first paragraph of Section 11 of the Act on the Compensation of Victims of Violence, no higher compensation is provided for the victim in each individual case than 40 times the basic amount of the people’s rights. This corresponds to NOK 3168 640 as of 1 May 2011. Today, we want to raise the maximum level of compensation for victims of violence to 60 G. The compensation for victims of violence must ensure that the victims can, as far as possible, have a normal life of normal consumption. In addition, the Government proposes an option to derogate from the 60 G ceiling on compensation for victims of violence in ‘special cases’. Examples include that the replacement requirements may exceed 60 G, even if calculated on the basis of a general standard of living, if young people become nearly 100 pst. disabled and permanently disabled and suffers many years — and thus high — loss of future income, high needs for care and high costs of rehabilitating housing, as well as in cases where victims of killing leave many young children. The majority support this proposal, of course. The decision will be taken today to allow more than those covered by the victim compensation scheme to apply for compensation. This applies to persons who have suffered personal injury in connection with the assistance of victims of a criminal offence that violates life, health or freedom. With regard to the question of codification of current practices concerning the ability of victims to seek and obtain compensation for victims of violence, the Committee shares the view of the government that a law can work against its purpose and is therefore not to recommend it. The limits here are difficult to draw and by attempting to legislate on current practices, there may be a risk of narrowing the rights compared to the developments in administrative and judicial practices that would otherwise lead to. The Committee would stress that the practice today, that victims should be able to seek and receive compensation for victims of violence, should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1448	I would like to start by thanking the case spokesperson for a good and quick examination in the committee. There are not many weeks since the Stortinget deals with proposals for changes in the victims' compensation and the victim's help case. Today's case has been initiated by the terrorist attack on the government quarter and the Utøya on 22 July last year, but the changes will still apply in general. I am very pleased that today we are able to deal with good proposals for changes in the law on compensation for victims of violence and the law on criminal proceedings. One of the proposals is to raise the maximum limit for victims of violence from today's 40 G to 60 G, and not least that this limit may be waived in exceptional cases. Another proposal for a change is that today’s limit of 40 G is related to the time of damage, while the new proposal of 60 G is calculated according to G’s size at the time of decision. The ability to deviate from the upper limit in a separate case will mean that the upper limit will not be disabled abnormally. In other words, there will be a security valve to enable the victims of violence to cover their losses on the basis of a standard of living. I am pleased that the government is taking the heights to make it possible to provide compensation for the victims of violence to people who are injured or lost after giving help to the victims of violence. It is also important to stress that these changes will have retroactive effect from 1 January 2011. I have recorded that this proposal has been the subject of some criticism, some of which think that one should have gone even further back in time. Well, then I would like to remind you that, as far as I am aware, this is the first time that changes in the law on the compensation of victims have retroactive effect, and that the option could have our even tighter. Many have responded that there are different rules on how compensation is measured for victims of violence over 16 years of age and victims under 16 years of age. To say that the changes will not prevent them under 16 years of age, in line with other victims of violence, from being able to pay compensation up to 60 G and in specific cases more. The difference between those over and those under the age of 16 is that in many cases they have made a study choice or are in income-giving work. For those under 16, there is usually no such hold point. Therefore, the youngest will be calculated a standard replacement. I think there might be a lot of reasons to discuss this principle more closely, but it wasn't part of the government's proposal when the case was out on the phone. On the other hand, the Personal Compensation Selection will address this as one of several questions in the discussion, so the Storting will get this question up to wide discussion in a later situation. The changes in criminal law suggest that claims for compensation and reparation can initially be dealt with in criminal proceedings against the perpetrator. This can also be done through a somewhat more extensive oral conference than is usual today. As a result, it is suggested that the claims are secured by satisfactory treatment. I am pleased that the procedural capacity of the Victim Compensation Office has been significantly strengthened. This is likely to ensure that all applications are treated promptly and well. The government also proposes that the court be able to decide that court proceedings in criminal cases with a slightly larger format should be transferred to other local authorities — to ensure that the offended, the abandoned and the aid lawyers can benefit from the right to follow the case. I also point out that the government in the proposal proposes that it should be able to appoint one or more coordinating aid lawyers in criminal proceedings with many actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1469	Not many weeks ago, the Stortinget dealt with a representative proposal from us in the Progress Party on the amendment to the Act on the Compensation of Victims and also a general lifting of the rights of victims and the establishment of a care for victims. This is an important area to make the shortcomings visible to us in the Progress Party. That is why we also supported this proposal as early as last June. So I noticed that today's rapporteur, Mr Chaudhry, referred to the criminal case in a singular way, that is, on the 22nd of July. It's going to be completely wrong for us in the Progress Party. The changes we are now dealing with apply to all victims. As everyone knows, today we are sitting with the government's bill in response to the decisions that were made. It's a good thing that we can raise the roof from 40 to 60 G, but is it even necessary to have a roof? We take this into account in the proposal of the Progress Party, on which we have not received the majority, namely a general lifting of the ceiling on compensation for victims of violence. Are there good reasons why victims of violence should be awarded less compensation than those who are victims of injury to patients, occupational injury and, for that matter, road damage? The Party of Advancement believes no. It is really not good to find weighty arguments for capping the amount of compensation. The fact that we, as politicians in the bill, will raise the limit from 40 to 60 G, well only confirms what we all know that the need for enlargement is present. Then again, why not remove the entire roof? It can't be to save money. 2011 is, and will hopefully be, an exceptional year in terms of violence damage, because of July 22. It is extremely rare for some to be so harmed by violence that it can be compared to damage caused by car accidents or operations. The limit of 40 G has not been used in the years it has existed. So why make an artificial thank you, as this just creates bureaucracy and frustration? It is said from the government parties that a ‘valve’ will be available in very special cases, such as: The case of Mohamad Hadi Hamed. But wouldn't it be much easier to remove the roof, deal with the individual's case and thus ensure that each person receives the amount that is adopted, and that in the opinion of the court, is the real and the correct amount to be allocated? What could be the case now is that the Court can award sums above 60 G, for example: Ten million. kr, while the victim of the violence may be at risk of being paid only half, although everyone actually agrees with that 10 million. kr is the correct amount. Understand the one who can, I'm not doing it at least. I address the proposal that we have promoted and stand alone about, and the proposal that we are promoting with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1484	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1487	Most of it has been said, but I want to thank the Committee for good cooperation, thank the case rapporteur and – not least – thank the previous speakers who, on behalf of their party, the Progress Party, have been a very active driver who has moved the government in the right direction. This is a clear improvement, what we are going to adopt today. There have been a large number of step-by-step improvements in the Victim Compensation Act, but one might say that there has been a little uncoordinated and not after an overall assessment. That is the background to the proposal on which the Right and the Advance Party stand together, proposal No. 1, that there is a need to evaluate the practice of the overall picture. It has been provided by Stortinget since we got the law initially, because we have not had a complete and independent review until now. This has resulted in a wide range of improvements, but it has happened with little coordination and can also create new injustices. In order to justify the promotion of our proposal, the need to clarify more clearly the legal position of children compared to adults, and there is a need to clarify who is considered a relative. Then we need a thorough analysis of all the practices we have received after the entry into force of the law. There is also reason to remember that there are many victims of violence in addition to those who lost their lives and who became related both in the government quarter and in the Utöya. I want to quote what was said at a conference earlier, this year or last year, that each victim of violence and family member has a Breivik in his life. There is reason to remember that this law applies in general, and there are many, in addition to those directly related and affected, who were extra affected, because it is experienced by the other victim. Finally, I would like to stress what a unanimous committee points out – it is very pleased, we have been concerned about this – to ensure that Oslo District Courts make it as organized and accessible as possible, so that those concerned can follow the trial process in the vicinity of where the main negotiations actually take place, if they want to be in the Oslo area. I think that the District Court has done a good job of facilitating practical ways of doing this, but I would like to stress that it is good that we also from Stortinget's side stress how important it is that those who need and want to do so should have the opportunity to follow the case as much as possible in the way they want. That's what the committee is proposing, and I hope that Oslo will take the signals from the Storting seriously – as well as that they have done a good job from before in doing this in the most practical way possible, as much as possible like the one you normally have, and as considerate and gentle as possible for all the people directly affected by the tragedy on July 22nd.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1500	The background to the proposals for amendments to the Victim Compensation Act and the Criminal Procedures Act is a common political desire to ensure the satisfactory treatment of victims of violence following the terrorist attacks on 22 July last year, in the administrative apparatus and to prevent the abuse of the Victim Compensation Act. The amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act shall ensure that insulted and abandoned persons are able to make use of the rights conferred by the Criminal Procedures Act, even if the number of actors involved in criminal proceedings is high. The legislative proposals were initiated by the terrorist attacks on the government quarter and Utøya on 22 July last year. The proposals have been made through close and fruitful cooperation between the Government and the Judicial Committee. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank you for this good cooperation. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the proposed legislative changes. I propose to raise the maximum level of compensation for victims of violence from 40 G at the time of the damage to 60 G at the time of the decision. It shall be possible to derogate from this limit in exceptional cases. If young people are so seriously injured that they are nearly 100 pst. disabled persons and disabled persons may be entitled to claims in excess of 40 G. In exceptional cases, the requirements may also exceed 60 G, even if calculated on the basis of a general standard of living. This is due to the fact that the future loss of income and the cost of future care and refurbishment of housing could be high when the victims are young. Derogation from the ceiling in exceptional cases shall be a narrow rule of exception. It shall prevent the curtailment of claims where this is particularly unreasonable. I also want to give the administration discretionary access to providing compensation for victims of violence. Such a law on the compensation of victims of violence is being drafted today, persons who have assisted victims of criminal acts of violence will not normally be able to receive compensation for victims of violence. According to the bill, individuals who have been transported to land at Utøya or persons who have been working life-saving at Evolved camping or in the government quarter could be compensated. I believe that the efforts of those who assist victims of criminal acts have such great value for society that such expansion has good reasons for it. Following the proposal, the lifting of the maximum limit and the right to provide compensation for victims of violence shall take effect on or after 1 January 2011 for all claims based on criminal offences. I add that the rules on standardised compensation for children under the Damage Compensation Act §3-2a do not prevent children from getting compensation above 40 G. The provision specifies how to measure compensation for future income and compensation for children under 16 years of age. A maximum of 40 G is given in compensation for these items. In addition, children may be compensated for little damage, compensation for expenses assumed to be incurred by the child in the future, and upliftment. This means that children, in line with all other victims of violence, will be able to receive up to 60 G in compensation for victims of violence. In exceptional cases, they will be able to gain more. The question of how to measure compensation for future income and compensation for children is one of several questions assessed by the Personal Indemnity Committee in NOU 2011:16 Standardised personal indemnity compensation. The investigation, which has also been mentioned earlier today, will be sent to the hearing. I suggest that in criminal matters of a larger format, the court should be able to decide that the insulted and abandoned persons should be able to attend the court hearing using remote meetings, so-called videoconferencing techniques, or by receiving audio and video transmission from the courtroom at a specified location, often called ‘streaming’. In cases involving many actors, the presence of all at the same time may be difficult to implement. It may also be challenging to conduct court meetings in a dignified and orderly manner. This provision will only apply if it is necessary to ensure an appropriate and resource-efficient implementation of the criminal case and the decision should not go beyond what is necessary to ensure that those considerations are taken. Transfer to neighbouring premises will be part of the legal meeting, in line with the legal venue itself. The Court of First Instance shall settle questions as to who should be present at what times, in dialogue with the individual actors. The proposal is not intended to deprive operators of rights arising otherwise from the Criminal Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1520	As the Council of State stated in its observations, the First paragraph of Section 11 of the Act on the Compensation of Victims has a limitation up to 60 times the basic amount of the population's rights, but that this ceiling may be waived in exceptional cases. Given that what is said in this debate will be important for the practice of this, I will ask the Council of State the question: what signals will she send as to how harshly this rule of exception should be practised?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1528	This derogation is probably meant for the very specific cases. For this reason, the examples mentioned have been victims of violence with special obligations, such as: care obligations, or victims who are so young that there may be very special circumstances that suggest that they still have such an opening. This is a system that is well-tested, which is well-known, but where we are faced with both a number of victims of violence and such a complex group of victims of violence that it is important to have this very special exception in order to provide security in the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1535	I think everyone agrees that when it comes to the issues where you get into 60 times popular fear, it's very special in itself, where there's been serious violence, and that the issues that were going to go beyond that, that is, the special cases, would be so special that I think it would be very unreasonable if the state were to start with some sibling of which of the issues were to substitute over 60 G. That is why I believe that the Council of State must now send out a clear and clear signal to those who are being subjected to serious violence in society, that the State should show reluctance to those who are being hit by the worst cases of violence. I will assume that there will be many of those who were subjected to violence on July 22nd last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1540	I am committed to providing the victims with security that we have a good system of compensation for the victims of violence. I am confident that both the Office for Victim Compensation and the Court of Justice will practice this system in a fair and fair manner, and will treat victims of violence who either have their own cases for treatment or will promote their cases, and that it would be right for the assessment of the measure of compensation to take place on the basis of the individual's situation and in relation to the legislation given. I believe that the Stortinget, with the decisions we are likely to make later today, provides a good basis for that to be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1545	In the future, the right will discuss internally in the party the ceiling on the compensation scheme for victims of violence. I'll tip that one reason not to remove the roof completely can be economic considerations. I would assume that the ministry has done some calculations of how many things will apply if you remove the roof completely. My specific question is: what will the economic consequences be of completely removing the roof? Is it possible for the Council of State to give an estimate for this? I would assume that there is a reason that is also fully sustainable in taking responsibility for the State's part.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1552	This is a system that is fundamentally good and well known, where the basis of calculation for most parts of the scheme is also well known. Today, there are few, if any, cases where you have reached the existing 40-g ceiling. Nevertheless, in view of the many cases involving not least young victims of violence, and also the need to provide security around this demanding quotation, we saw good reasons for raising the ceiling to 60 G to ensure that the victims did not have an insecurity around whether or not they could be reasonably compensated. Normal living standards underpinning the measurement of the individual elements of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1559	Then I interpret it there that you don't know the economic consequences of what it means to remove the roof. But it might be an idea to support proposal No. 1, from the Right and Advance Party, about a complete review of practice, because then you would be able to answer that kind of question in the Storting. Another factor to support a comprehensive review is that it has been pointed out to the Committee that some new injustices may be created in the future. So even if proposal No. 1 is most likely to be downgraded today, will the Council of State take the initiative at a given time to have an independent, comprehensive review of the practice of the law when perhaps even a little more time has passed, to see if any of the warnings we have received about the distribution, which may become applicable in this law, and that we can get a new case to deal with in the Grand Duchy if you see the kind of verdict that someone also points out to the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1566	I don't know if it's a misunderstanding, but this is an individualized system. The person who has a claim for compensation gets it. This is not determined on the basis of the budget under each item. This is measured on the basis of both lost income, mén and other claims arising from the individual case. However, it is based on a normal standard of living and must therefore not be compared with, for example: compulsory compensation schemes which have been drawn up by individuals in insurance companies or which may have been drawn up by the employer, and not with the cases in which the State is the victim. Here it is a perpetrator who was responsible for the damage, but the state sees it reasonable to settle with compensation, as the violent compensation law states.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1571	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1584	The cancellation is then ready for voting on the matter on today's map. Let's start with case number. 3, then case No. 1 and 2 are without a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1640	The President will draw attention to the fact that we are now going to vote on a draft constitution. The position of the Committee is unanimous and it is proposed that the proposal be rejected. The President therefore proposes that we vote in the usual way – it is deemed adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1660	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for legislative changes to remove the ceiling on the compensation of victims of violence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1684	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to evaluate the practice of the Victim Compensation Act since its entry into force in 2001. The evaluation shall include an assessment of whether the intentions behind the law have been fulfilled, the relationship with other compensation schemes, the assessment of who is considered to be ‘responsible’ according to current practice and the extent to which the legal position of children is too weak compared to adults’s etc.’.» The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1793	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1803	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-26.ana.ud2337e1865	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
