ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e22	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland For Oslo County: Lotte Grepp Knutsen The representatives Susanne Bratli, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Morten Höglund submitted an application for leave on 4 and 5 October to attend the autumn session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Tirana, Albania. Those applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative of Rigmor Andersen Eide from 4 October until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Møre and Romesdal counties, Steinar Reiten, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide's leave of absence, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to be convened during the period of leave: For Akershus County: Tone Liljeroth For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Camilla Storøy Hermansen For Telemark County: Odin Adelsten Bohmann For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bord Langsävold – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The product representatives Tone Liljeroth, Camilla Storøy Hermansen, Odin Adelsten Bohmann and Bård Langsavold are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 28 September 2012: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 28 September 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is determined: State Secretary Dagfinn Sundsbø is pardoned from his office as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. State Secretary Erik Lahnstein is dismissed from office as Secretary of State for the Council of State Marit Arnstad and is re-appointed Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. Mayor Nina Tangnæs Groenvold is appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Jonas Gahr Støre. Mr Geir Pollestad is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Marit Arnstad. State Secretary Eli Blakstad is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State of the Council of State Ola Borten Moe. Political adviser Ane Hansdatter Kismul is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Ola Borten Moe.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e100	The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e108	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e111	I have the pleasure – on behalf of the big business representatives Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Line Henriette Hämdahl, Borghild Tenden and myself – to present a proposal to improve the legal security of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e116	The representative Per Roar Bredvold will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e119	It is my pleasure – on behalf of the big business representatives Torgeir Tjäldal, Jon Georg Dale, Jan Henrik Fredriksen, Oskar J. Grimstad, Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself – to present proposals for the slaughter of tamrein on Finnmarksvidda.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e124	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e128	I am delighted – on behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe, Elisabeth Røbakk Nørve and myself – to propose new initiatives to lift the professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e133	The representative of Svein Harberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e136	I am delighted – on behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Elisabeth Aspaker, Henning Warloe, Anne Karin Olli and myself – to make a proposal for a more flexible and decentralised education offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e141	The representative, Mr Halleraker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e144	I am delighted – on behalf of the representatives of Ingerd Schou, Lars Myraune, Bjørn Lødemel, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself – to put forward a proposal on the use of more modern methods in road and rail development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e149	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e163	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate takes place over two days and begins with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes, followed by a row of up to six lines. 42 posts of up to 5 minutes are distributed as follows between lots: Party of Workers 15 posts, Party of Advancement 10 posts, Right 7 posts, Party of Socialists 3 posts, Party 3 posts, Party of Christian People 3 posts and 1 posts. About two thirds of the contributions are being held today, the remaining ones tomorrow. It opens up up to four lines on each post after two of the posts of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right, and after one of the posts of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Five government councils shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, with a subsequent row of up to four lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time at today's meeting, it will be opened for submissions of up to 3 minutes. The meeting will end at the latest by 9 a.m. 21.00. Sitting of Friday, 5 p.m. 9.00 and starting with a post from the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of up to 10 lines. Then follow the remaining posts of up to 5 minutes, and then any remaining 3 minutes post from today's meeting as well as those who sign up during Friday's debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e186	The last time we were gathered for the debate on the throne was the darkest thing possible: the bomb against the Government Quartet and the massacre at Utøya on July 22, 2011. Tragian has also had the impression of the year that has passed since then, first through a long and painful trial, then with the thorough and very critical report of the 22 July Commission. It was the government who ordered the report, and who explicitly asked for everything to come on the table, no matter how unpleasant the truth might be, and no matter who could bear the harshest criticism. 22 July and the Commission report will be one of the most important issues of the Stortinget also in the autumn, and I am sure that the Stortinget's further examination of the report will take place with the thoroughness, transparency and dignity required by the case. I have noticed that when the opposition attacks the government, enforcement has become a word that is used diligently. Whatever the case, and regardless of which right-wing politicians speak, we are told that the government lacks the ability to implement. It is used to explain almost any lack or unresolved task in Norwegian society. And, yes – we still have unsolved tasks in Norwegian society, and even after four new years of red-green government, Norway will be a nirvana, but the important question is whether we have taken Norway further in the direction we were told to, and which has wide upsurge in the Norwegian people: creating more and distributing better, securing work for everyone and a good working life, optimism throughout the country, inclusion, equality and tolerance, and above all a better school, better health care and care that does not depend on the individual's wallet, but paid jointly over the tax paper. In all these areas, the government demonstrates its capacity for implementation, action and reform. While large parts of Europe are characterised by unemployment, increasing disparities, cutbacks in public budgets and social unrest, progress in areas by region can be noted in Norway. The people are at work, and we are building up well-being. An expression of this is that in 2003, the first year after the war, when the number of employees in Norwegian municipalities fell, every week with a red-green government gave 70 new year’s work in care and care – every week. These are results that tell about good implementation and a social direction that is basically about people's security in everyday life. Then there's someone who thinks the government is doing too much, and that you should have prioritised something down. I think that being criticized for being able to solve more problems at once is a criticism that the government can live well with. I would like to remind you that the red-green government has made two basic economic priorities that have made these results possible: one is to stick to the rule of action and not spend more money than the Norwegian economy can bear, the other is to say no to tax cuts. Seven years of red-green government have so far been marked by great upliftment and reforms. Some have been popular, as kindergarten development, road construction and cultural promise, others have been demanding, and sometimes painful, but necessary. The government has shown strength. We're talking about the pension reform – we're not just talking about it, we're implementing it – and the digitisation of the public sector to improve the service for the citizens. Structural changes have been made in Hospital Norway to provide better and more specialised treatment. The interaction reform is in the process of being implemented, which is about to prevent better and provide more services locally, and the defence plan is about to provide a more effective defence. All these are examples of major ongoing reforms that make us better equipped for the future, to make the world's best country to live in even better. It is about Norway becoming more and more modern. In the good times we have now, we lay the foundation for the business and welfare of the future. Results in schools are progressing, research appropriations have increased by 25 p.m., there is a heavy investment in transport, new oil and gas exploration areas have been opened up while speeding up renewable energy efforts. The audit obligation for small businesses has been removed, and it has to be simplified for a further billion dollars. We have a family policy that makes it possible to spend time with children and at the same time participate in working life. That's what we're going to do in Norway, and that's what we're going to do in Norway. So the opposition is making an earnest effort to point out errors and deficiencies along the way. It's all right, and it's the opposition's role and task. But the fundamental question one year before the big shot is: What is the opposition's alternative to our social direction? One year before the elections, it is clear that an alternative to today's government is some kind of coalition between the Right and the Advance Party, the most right-wing option that Norway has seen in modern times, supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left. What's interesting now is what kind of policy this option stands for. The opposition is calling for new policies, but they themselves offer right-wing policies that we know very well from past times, and it's essentially about two things: one is tax cuts, and the other is privatisation. These are the two most important handles to get away from the Norwegian model. The right, through its programme work, has announced that they will cut taxes by at least 25 billion. kr. 25 B.C.E. kr corresponds to the annual operation of 27 000 sick homes or almost a complete budget for transport. And this is before account has been taken of the demands of the Progress Party on tax cuts. The last right cut the taxes by 25 billion. kr, gave it the starving of the municipalities, fewer teachers in school and lack of investment in the transport sector. Why it's going to be different this time, we haven't got a good answer so far. The right has also signaled very strongly that they want more market thinking and commercialisation of well-being. Now it's not just about reintroducing Kristin Clemet's private school law, in addition, a free slip for commercial hospitals according to the well-known progress party model. It is packaged as a free user choice, which is a principle of which it is a cross-political agreement in Norway, but in reality it is about the almost free establishment of private hospitals, which can then send the bill to the public. This will, if implemented, affect the health system’s ability to prioritise those who are most ill, and there will be a number of institutions to divide into budget and health professionals. The demanding changes we now have in the capital area will be blueberries compared to what will happen if the Right implements its policy. Finally, I would like to point out another dimension in the 2013 orientation: it is the family policy and the right's new conservative approach to the abortion issue. There are many women in this country who thought with me that the abortion struggle was won, who thought that the humiliating path to abortion for women in a desperate situation was something that belonged to the story, but at that time one. Right will not only put maximum obstacles in the way of those who really want children, but who are struggling to get it into the natural way, they will also deprive women of the only criterion for abortion after twelve weeks, which is about the state of the foetus. If eugenic indication is removed as an independent abortion criterion, women may be forced to produce foetuses such as: lack of brain, or for other reasons will not survive. The alternatives in Norwegian policy are clear: the distinctions are between welfare and tax cuts, between Community solutions and privatisation — and not least women’s struggles.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e218	It's going to be line change. The first representative is Ketil Solvik-Olsen. Solvik-Olsen has asked for two lines, to which there is full opportunity and opportunity from the electronic system. Then there will be two lines from the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e223	Let me give you a perspective on this: 25 billion. kr in tax relief would correspond to only 7 pst. of the tax increase that has taken place during the reign of red-green parties, so that will not be very much money. The representative was responsible for economic policy. The Progress Party fully agrees, we must do that. But then one has to run it based on real content, not just headlines. Today, a responsible economic policy does not distinguish consumption from investment in the State budget, which does not distinguish between money spent in Norway and money spent abroad. The responsible economic policy is based on an action rule that says that if we give oil money to State power to build wind turbines in Norway, it does not create pressure in the Norwegian economy, but when we give the same money to build wind turbines in Africa, through Norwegian aid, it supposedly creates huge pressure in the Norwegian economy. It shows an action rule that is not compatible with reality, which means that we give priority to our money mistakes and do not expand Norwegian infrastructure. Does the representative agree that developing wind turbines in Africa instead of in Norway will put pressure on the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e230	First of all, I disagree fundamentally with the distinction between operating and investing in the Progress Party. Yes, it is investing in the future to build roads, railways and ports. Yes, it's investing in the future to build new university buildings. But it is also investing in the future to grant funds to municipalities, so that they can employ more teachers, clean up school buildings, expand kindergartens and provide our children with the best basis for meeting the challenges they face in life — in working life and in business later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e235	Now that's not what I asked. I asked if it makes sense to build wind turbines in Africa instead of in Norway. Today's government policy suggests that you can spend as much oil money as you want to build wind turbines in Norway, but you can't use oil money to build wind turbines in Africa, because it creates pressure in the Norwegian economy. There is a fundamental logical flaw here, which means that the attempt by the representative Pedersen now was just nonsense, because it has nothing to do with the realities of economic policy. If you are going to invest in Norway, you need to have an opening so that you can actually build roads in Norway. So today you can build a lot of windmills, because it happens through a state company, but you have to build roads and railways – which are sensible, and which reduce the pressure in the Norwegian economy – then you won't be allowed to do it, because then the rule of action goes into effect. So one has a completely wrong priority in terms of investment and consumption. As long as it takes place through a state company, the Workers' Party believes that this is an investment. If it happens through the State budget, by definition, it is not an investment. Now we've just been recalculated on how one calculates socio-economic profitability. Will the government at least go through good road projects in Norway, show that they are profitable, and thus be able to prioritise more money for those road projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e244	The fundamental question in economic policy is that we should not spend more money than the Norwegian economy can bear. I am amazed at the light-spirited attitude of the Progress Party towards what is happening around us in Europe on all sides – that we in Norway have to deal with the fact that the situation out there can also affect us, and that our first line defence is to have a responsible use of oil money. I record that the Progress Party is still the only party on the Stortinget that has a completely different definition of what a responsible economic policy – and the rule of action – is. Besides, it varies from year to year. What's interesting is whether the Progress Party will stick to its new rule of action until the fall is over, or whether they will bow to the demand from the Right that they also define the rule of action, like all the other political parties in Norway, in order to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e249	When you listen to Helga Pedersen, you almost get the impression that the Right Party is in government, and the Labour Party is in opposition. The representative obviously dislikes the fact that the Right pranks away from the government's lack of implementation. I'm going to give Pedersen the right to have the government put in place a teaching aid scheme with unskilled people, and they've put fruit and vegetables in the school. But priority has been given to continuing training for teachers. There has been a cease-fire in higher education and research. Today, a ranking is presented to show that no Norwegian universities are among the 200 best in the world. My question to the representative Helga Pedersen is: what is the Workers' Party's view that you should be able to achieve in twelve years that you have not been able to achieve in eight?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e258	First of all, I think that when a political debate is held in Stortinget, one must also bear the challenge of what the alternative is. I'm very proud of what the red-green government has done in Norwegian school in seven years. During the Bondevik II government, there were several pupils in primary school, but there were over 1,000 fewer years of teaching. With red-green government, there are over 8 000 teachers employed in the Norwegian school. We've turned the trend around. There is a heavy investment in continuing training for teachers. We've got a new teacher training in place, and we see that many more Norwegian youths want to learn. What are the results of that? Well, we see that school content has improved and that Norwegian school is doing better in international studies. This is contrary to what we see in Sweden, where the Right Policy is now being implemented by the Moderates, where the school is becoming increasingly segregated, and the results are going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e265	I record that the representative Helga Pedersen does not answer my question: what is it that you should be able to do in twelve years that you have not been able to do in eight years? In terms of school teacher's density, this has not improved in eight red-green years in government. There have been several teachers, yes, but there have also been several students, and it is not right, as the representative Helga Pedersen says, that there is a large investment in continuing education. On the contrary, it has been down-prioritized. The most important thing to do in Norwegian schools has become a priority — and this applies to continuing training for teachers. You've given a completely different priority. Priority has been given to unskilled homework; priority has been given to fruit and vegetables. So I have to be allowed to repeat the question: what is the Workers' Party going to be able to do in twelve years that you haven't been able to do in eight?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e275	We have good results to show through our first seven years, and we are going to lay the foundation for that development in Norwegian school to continue. That's why we're going to give priority to spending money on school rather than tax cuts, so we're going to hire teachers instead of giving generous gifts to that part of the population that already has the most. If the representative Sanner believes that we need more teachers in Norwegian school, my question is: is it better that we employ more teachers – as we do under the red-green government – rather than reduce the number of teacher's years, as was done under the Bondevik II government? Let me take the question of research. What the representative Sanner refers to as a ‘sleep cutting’ in the research is a 25 pst. increase in research appropriations compared with the supply of the Bondevik II Government. Again: The research budget is now approx. 25 B.C.E. kr. That's about the same thing that the Right has promised in tax cuts. Then I choose research and knowledge rather than tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e284	Now it's not my job to defend the Right Party. But when the representative Pedersen says that the Right has recently changed its policy, it is wrong. The Right Party has stood up in the fight against the sorting society for a long time. It has been of great importance to how the Christian People's Party has thought about the issue of cooperation, for the Right is a party that says that children should not be removed from the property. It is, as Mr Pedersen says, a lack of implementation which is one of the great criticisms of this government. One area that illustrates this is the rent of the state-owned companies – 18 pst. growth, and the six largest have an average of 8.7 million. in rents. State Council Trond Gian talks about moderation! Would it have been good for this government to be moderated in terms of rents?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e293	The examples we've seen from Entra and the leadership pay level in the last few days are an unacceptablely high level of pay. That is precisely why the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government have been concerned about getting moderation in the management fees. That is why bonuses, options and termination benefits have been tightened up. The government’s policy is that government directors’ salaries and senior management’s salaries should be competitive, but they should not be wage-leading. That's the message you've given to the government. I assume that the governments are implementing practical policies, and this must also be something on which governments are evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e298	The representative Pedersen spoke in his speech about major reforms and better offers. For the Left, public sector renewal is important in order to improve well-being and to meet the new challenges. An important part of this is more robust municipalities, including by delegating more power downwards at municipal level. I have raised this issue with the representative a couple of times – three times before without any particular luck, but in the summer I noticed that both the member of the programme committee, Hadia Tajik, and the head of the AUF were involved in the coercion of municipalities in the new programme. So my question to the representative is, how is the progress of the party in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e305	The Labour Party believes that there is a need for changes in the municipal structure. What tools we use or do not use in the next period should we return to in the further programming process and at our national meeting. But innovation and simplification in the public sector are also about other things, including: is about putting ICT to work. Not least in the health care system and in the interaction between municipal health services, caregivers and hospitals, it is important to make use of the opportunities provided by information technology. Here we go. It's one of the important things for us in the program work. We want to get back to it from the government when the big news about ICT is presented. But here I regret to say that the Left has been a brake pad because you don't want to use new technology to strengthen privacy, but on the contrary swears to old technology. And I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e312	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e315	The throne speech of the year opened with the message: ‘The government’s objective is to give freedom and security to people in Norway’. The Progress Party agrees, but we hardly agree on what it means or how it should be achieved. Freedom is about everything from freedom of expression and freedom of religion to the more intimate things, such as the right to choose between public and private offerings, or the right to choose between Norwegian and Spanish cheese. Security is not about being afraid to travel outdoors. It's about breaking into your home being investigated, and the perpetrator being punished, rather than the matter being settled because of a lack of resources. And it's about knowing that well-trained health professionals will accept you and treat you properly on the medical guard, and that you will have surgery when the need arises. It requires action. On Monday, the NRK Dagsrevyen presented a survey of the trustees in the police. It showed that despite the crushing criticism from the Gjørv Commission, little has been done to improve preparedness. A trust vote warns that if Norway had been hit by a new crisis, the criticism would today be as bad as it was in the Gjørv Commission. It makes the impression when a police patrol first has to drive 21 miles before it can start an armed mission. Only five police districts believe that preparedness has improved. All the others believe that readiness has not improved, or even worse. In the debate last year, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said that we are not waiting for the Gjørv Commission to make the necessary improvements. It's very bad at the message of the trustees in the police. That is why we need action and not paralysis. The Progress Party believes that we now need fewer police districts. We believe that there is a need to lay down the Police Directorate. We believe that we can benefit from fewer but, in return, much more robust operating centres. We want more policemen out in active service, and we want a job guarantee to be given to everyone who's in the Police College. It gives real freedom, it gives real security to the inhabitants of the country. For several weeks – yes, actually for several years – we have had a wide range of frightening revelations in the media from Health-Norway. Nevertheless, the government assures them that they have control — yes, they do not even know again, if we are to believe the country’s new health minister, Gahr Støre. But the Progress Party listens to what the employees, the relatives and the patients tell. At least it makes the impression on me when they tell about meetings with the health care service that we shouldn't be familiar with. It also makes sense to me when trustees and health care professionals report some form of fear culture, where standing up and telling how it actually is are associated with risks in relation to further careers in the sector. Yes, it makes the impression, and it bears witness that everything is not as it should be. Nor does it testify to freedom or security, but it bears witness to paralysis. Yesterday, the internal audit report from ten hospitals in Health South-East came, a crushing report – also it. For this reason, the Progress Party is today promoting proposals to set up an independent Commission for the health sector. We want an unpainted report that turns all the stones, and hopefully gives us a common sense of reality that allows us to trade instead of just talking. There have been many election campaigns where health and care issues have been at the top. What remains is action. The Progress Party believes that it is time to shut down regional health businesses. They appear to be a mastodont of a bureaucracy, and they do not treat one patient in spite of seizing large amounts of money that could otherwise have gone to patient treatment. We want to invest more in medical technology equipment and ICT. We want to use free private capacity. It is tempting to refer to the Workers’ Party slogan ‘Everyone should join’, but it should really be changed to: Everyone should be included – also to Volvat, because the security and freedom to choose between private and public health services is something everyone should have, both for themselves and their children, whether they have the wallet of a Council of State or a single mother. The Progress Party will earmark money for the health and care sector in the municipalities – where people live – for the care of the elderly, for the implementation of the Interaction Reform and for the medical officer, who has received crushing criticism in the last two days. It gives real freedom and real security, and it requires action. But freedom is also about being able to live on its own income. For this reason, the overall level of charges has to be reduced, because high and high charges mainly affect those with at least previous charges. Then you also get security – security for your own economy, security for your own family. The Progress Party will pursue a responsible economic policy, we will reduce the size of the country, cut red tape, increase investment and reduce tax levels to ensure well-being and jobs. We want to use the action space in the Norwegian economy to invest more in infrastructure, equipment and research. We simply have to remove the bottleneck in the economy. We want to increase the growth capacity of the economy – it is worth working, but it is also worth investing in Norway for business. Then we have to stop saving ourselves to find. It makes no sense that we lend our oil money at low interest rates, while Norwegian drivers have to pay dearly because we finance road construction with loans from abroad, at high interest rates. It is not security, it is not a responsible economic policy, it is waste. The Progress Party will have real freedom and real security. Then it is time – I think – that the government parties are able to answer something better and something more precise than what Helga Pedersen just did, compared to all the holes the rule of action represents. It was not possible to get Helga Pedersen to respond to why building wind turbines in Africa with Norwegian money creates inflationary pressures in Norway to interpret budgetary rules, but to build the same wind turbines in Norway, you can do so on the outside of the rule of action. Most people understand that there is a flaw in that logic, and I think that most people would think of getting a better answer to why the Workers' Party is holding on to that rule – a rule that also says that inflation is going to be if we increase the rate of road construction in Norway, but it won't be inflation if we invest in windmills or oil platforms. Therefore, the Progress Party is committed to a clearer distinction between consumption and investment. Therefore, we believe it is important to have a distinction between money spent in Norway and money spent abroad. Therefore, the Progress Party calls for action, not action paralysis. I also allow myself to comment on the proposals from the Progress Party that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e350	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e355	I noticed what Siv Jensen said about economic policy, and I also noticed that she did not address the situation in Europe. I think it is alarming that the leader of the largest opposition party did not do so. Over the last few years, the Progress Party has had a very different attitude to the rules of action and the use of oil money. First you had to earmark the oil money for pensions, then you started with foreign accounts, then the financial crisis came, and then the Progress Party wanted to spend less oil money than the other parties. In the budget last year, the Progress Party went away from the international accounts, and now they have two rules of action, one for operation and one for investment. The interesting question for the Progress Party today is: Does the Advance Party have a new rule of action on the stairs, and will the Advance Party put itself on the same oil money usage as the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e364	I am glad that Helga Pedersen gives me the opportunity to say a little about the development in Europe, because the concern we should all have is what happens in the long term. It is clearly unpleasant and demanding in the present time for all those affected by high unemployment and a demanding situation in Europe. But in a macroeconomic perspective, this is going to be a huge challenge for Norway, because when all the other countries around us now slim down, the economy slims down, red tapes and improves its competitiveness, Norway is doing the exact opposite. This is where bureaucracy grows. There's no sign that we're preparing our business for a stronger competition with the rest of the world in the future, and it's going to be a problem. It should also worry the Workers' Party, rather than the eternal slogan that we are a peaceful island in chaos.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e369	I see it as the Progress Party is still open to economic experiments in a situation where there is a euro crisis around us in our neighbouring countries and important markets. I also did not select any approach to the Right of the Progress Party in economic policy in the answer we received from Siv Jensen here. But let me try another suggestion. The right has just presented its programme proposal, which calls for tax cuts of 25 billion. kr. The advance party taximeter stands for the time being at 100 billion. kr in tax cuts. What tax laws will the Progress Party put in the drawer to cooperate with the Right if the opposition parties are given a majority in the next harvest's elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e379	The Progress Party does not take a different view of the action rule. Our view of the rule of action has been very firm since it was introduced in 2001. It is about pursuing a responsible economic policy, about building the country. So wanting to build the country, wanting to invest in infrastructure – in a building mass that is good for our children when they go to school, in renewed water and sewerage networks – is not an economic experiment. It is a responsible economic policy. It's about building the country. It is about leaving an inheritance for their children and grandchildren, which means that not the bill for renewing the maintenance is just getting higher and higher, while maintaining that the best way – at least the Labour Party believes – to manage the wealth is to save it on various exchanges abroad. We believe that it would be wise to invest more of it in our own country, and it will be good for our children and grandchildren as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e386	Once we have discussed integration, the representative Siv Jensen has often stressed that marriage should be a result of love, and I agree with that with the heart. Similarly, if governments are to be formed, there should be some mutual attraction between the parties. It's hard to see in the relationship between the Right and the Advance Party by day. The Progress Party has called the Right Tax Policy for ‘basic ussocial’. The right and the Working Party are similar to ‘two drops of water’. Recently, the representative Siv Jensen was outside and was disappointed with the Right Light Blue tax policy, with only 25 billion dollars. kr in tax bill. It's obvious that someone's found together because they have to, and not because they want to. We're dealing with a political coercion. If 25 billion. kr is light blue and disappointing, how many billion more dollars in tax credits is it necessary for the Right and Advance Party to agree on a cooperation that is perceived both blue and encouraging by the representative Siv Jensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e399	Yes, by itself you know others. Since 2005, the Progress Party has expressed a real and real will for cooperation with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. I'm very happy that all the parties now have a clear relationship to want a change of government if there's a different majority in Stortinget after the next election. Then we can't imagine that politics is about matter, that there are four parties that, in the field by area by area, show common direction and will to find together. But the dryness of talking about the nuances, the dryness of talking about the differences, I think, is right. I think that's wise with the voters, because the voters are going to give the political parties muscles when they're going to go in and negotiate a government platform with their partners. It is the painful experience SV takes place every day when, by virtue of their size, they go to defeat after defeat, while at the same time having to stand and defend the Labour Party's policy and late as it is SVs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e408	One of the major differences between the Center Party and the Progress Party is the view of control and public ownership of our natural resources, quite concretely linked to the water power plants – these large water power plants that have created jobs and values for our country for over a hundred years. There is clear evidence from the Centre Party and the Red-Green Government that there should be national control here, and it should be in the community's ownership. The progress party – and the Right in so far – has stood for another model where one has opened up for the sale and privatisation of these large Norwegian hydroelectric power plants. My question is quite simply: if we – towards what we should expect – get a government consisting of the Progress Party and the Right, will the Progress Party stand on that line and continue to fight to sell out these resources? And if yes, why is it so important for the Progress Party that e.g. shall large, international, private operators have access to ownership of our hydroelectric power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e415	I think I can reassure the representative Sande that all rivers and waterfalls present in Norway today will also be found in Norway during the next major period. So this is not what the debate on power development is about. It is about finding means of taxation that make us increase production in a faster and more efficient way, both for our own use and for export. Then we have to be willing to discuss how we're going to do it. But the Progress Party has not been eager to sell the ownership to Norwegian power. We have, on the contrary, been concerned with finding a sensible way of taxing it through, for example: The basic interest rate – because of course this is a resource owned by the Norwegian people, to which the Norwegian people are going to have ownership in the foreseeable future, which cannot be moved out of the country by a foreign owner taking it with him, who is ours, and on which we need to find the best way to manage it. The question is when can we start building up the rest of our unspoilt hydropower resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e422	I am amazed at the first proposal of the Progress Party, which is on our platoons today, where the Progress Party wants a ban on special spaces for organized religious activity. I didn't think it was the ‘forbidden party’ that we were going to see in the first place. The Christian People's Party wants fewer bans – no more bans – that clearly want the Advance Party. And if we were to get banned first, I thought you'd do it in important things, but here, there's room for organized religious activity in the school. Yes, I myself have engaged in religious activity – it may be in a sofa group. Is this the kind of room that the Progress Party now wants to live? Religious freedom is important, and my question is so simple: Does Siv Jensen know that it was The Norwegian Church that started with a school in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e429	This is a matter that is perceived as so important that it has been the subject of extensive discussion in the country's capital, in Oslo City Council, where the Higher School Agency in Oslo has entered and instructed one of the schools not to grant permission to build a prayer area; where the Workers' Party's Vice-President in Oslo, Libe Rieber-Mohn, has been attacked – at least in the media – on Kristin Halvorsen and said that it is of course possible to do that type of prohibition nationally. The Progress Party takes note of that debate from the capital of the country, notes that there is an ever-increasing pressure that has not been there before, which has not been there from other religious groups but is now coming. It creates a challenge, especially because we believe that the school should primarily be a learning arena. I hope the Christian People's Party agrees. The primary aim of the school is to be a learning arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e434	It is possible that the representative Jensen is not very surprised at the question she is getting now, but the representative Jensen knows me so well that she knows that I am not giving myself that easily. Are there man-made climate change, Siv Jensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e439	I had an SMS exchange with the representative Skei Grande before I went to the pulpit. Then I wrote to her that I was sure that she was going to stress in her reply to me that she was very happy in me, and that she was glad to cooperate with me in the future. [[muttering in the hall]] What disappointed me most during the climate negotiations was that the Left chose to find a solution with the red-green parties rather than to see if it was possible to conclude a negotiation where the Progress Party was involved. In particular, because if you think that there will be a change of government after the next elections, a new government will also have to have an environmental and climate policy. Then it would be wise – I believe – to negotiate an ambitious, non-socialist climate and environmental policy that had a strong focus on the country's businesses when conclusions were reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e446	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e449	Now, when the Storting takes up this session's first political debate, we're going to say that we're in a privileged situation in the world. In Europe, several countries are in the process of implementing their welfare systems. We have employees who do not get paid, and many people experience that the house and home disappear. This summer we have seen that major European countries such as Germany have been affected by unrest. We see extremism growing in Greece. Violence policy is being implemented. And although we see some signs of improvement in the United States, unemployment is still high, and there is uncertainty in many other countries. So, in addition to this, there are bloody conflicts and fighting for democratic rights in several places in the world. That's the picture we need to bring with us when we discuss what the challenge for Norwegian society is for next year. Our domestic political debate is still marked by the very serious report of the Gjørv Commission. We have found that preparedness failed in many stages when we were hit by the most serious attack on Norway since the war. It is still the case that the perpetrator bears responsibility for the lives that were lost, for all who were wounded, and for those who are left in unrelenting sorrow. But the Storting must also do its job of analysing what went wrong when the preparedness failed, and what we should learn from what we now know. And we can already draw some conclusions. It is not enough that the responsible authorities have plans, intentions or are good at crisis communication once the crisis has occurred. What we need to ensure is that these plans are implemented, that security measures are actually implemented and that Norway is safer. I recorded that the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Helga Pedersen, feels a little hurt at the fact that the opposition points to the word executive. I believe that it is an important concept to discuss. Because I think we've created a Norway where we make a skin of political discussion. We adopt things, and the debate is about historically high appropriations. Any government has at any time, as long as it's growth in the economy, instead of seeing what's important, could say, what are we achieving? Can we get what we convert here and decide in this room, to actually become policies that people out there know? We have to ask ourselves that question, and I think that the government also needs to ask itself more. Because in the field by area, we see that the implementation force is low. Liability powdering and weathering from policy decisions to implementation have become more a symbol of Norway’s current date. Then I want to say that there is a lot of good going on in Norway, but there is a real danger that the government's newly won PR campaigns – about how well things are going at all points in Norway – obscure the challenges we have actually set to solve. The two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy is increasing every day. The industry that is not related to the oil industry is struggling harder than before. There is a danger that important industrial competences will be confused in the years to come. And so these companies are dependent on when the effect of oil revenue not only on budgets, but also on the economy, is going to decrease in the coming years. Thus, while our European neighbours are undergoing tougher transitions that will make them stronger in the long term, Norway is coming down on a number of international rankings of innovation and research efforts. I believe it must be a cross-thinking for our society that we are in many of these statistics together with the crisis countries of Europe – and not with the emerging countries of Europe – in terms of innovation in the future. Because it's old, good wisdom to reap what you sow. It's incredibly important that we use the good times we have now, to look in a way that allows generations after us to reap, because we're going to have more demanding times than we have today. This is why an important message from the Right is that we need to invest more in the future by strengthening our knowledge, by strengthening the breadth of knowledge in the Norwegian population, but also by strengthening knowledge at the top. Norway can't be satisfied that we don't have any universities that are inside the 200 best universities in the world. It's not raising Norway for the future. Then it is good that the government announces that it will deliver a big message, which everyone has done every four years. But the most important thing is, in fact, what we're doing is we're lifting research efforts in the years that are coming, not just to be mediocre in Europe, but on top. Therefore, there is a need to have both new ideas and better solutions that can lift us up in the future. In our opinion, Norway needs to become a knowledge nation, and we need to start primary school. For each individual person, the ability to choose a path in life will in the future depend on the knowledge gained through school. Then it's strong to read stories about kids who experience failure in school this year after year, and how it's going to shape them for the rest of their lives. I think we have a common goal that the school should give all children equal opportunities in life. It must be a defeat for us when society strengthens social divisions instead of equalizing them. But then we also have to dry out asking the question: do we have the right tools today? There I experience a government that after almost eight years is self-satisfied, and has no new ideas or better solutions. For us, an important solution is to invest more in the teachers so that they can teach the children even more. A good teacher can even out social differences, so that children from different families can learn as much. However, it is also important that we have new solutions that raise the professions. If we are to have broad competence, we also need to have more focus on the professions. That is why we have today proposed new solutions for this. We have to see that adult people need more education in their lives. That is why we need to have a more decentralised offer. That is why, today, we have also put forward proposals that take care of and focus on adults learning more during their lives. Our companies are fighting in an increasingly tough international competition. There is one thing that politicians could do, and that is to reduce the burden of extraordinary taxes and taxes and red tape on them. We're one of the world's most expensive countries, and we're going to be one of the world's most expensive countries in the future, too, because we're going to have good welfare. But then we have to make sure that the rest of the backpack becomes easier to carry. That is why we need to step down and remove the wealth tax, so we need to make sure that there is more innovation and innovation, and that is why we need to ensure that we can create new, safe and exciting jobs, which will ensure the well-being of the years to come. We then need to ensure that we develop a better road and infrastructure in Norway, so that businesses can reach their markets without having strangely high transport costs, and employees should be able to get to work without being stuck in endless queues around the big cities. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has made a self-recognition of the slow progress of road construction in Norway. But unfortunately, it remains to be seen that this government has new solutions in this area. We've got it, among other things. with what we have proposed today to use OPS better. Another area where we need new solutions is how we make the plan easier, so that we can expand collective and residential areas around the big cities faster. If today's growth continues in the population, in 16 years we'll be one million more people in Norway. We do not have decision-making structures for this in Norway to deal with, either in terms of housing construction or in terms of expanding infrastructure and collective services. That's why we have to work in other ways in the future. We need to have new methods and more effective methods of development, and that must be part of the future plan for how to build a more robust society. However, it is not only on competition issues, on job security, that new solutions are important. We also need new solutions to bring down health cows, to bring down waiting times. We need to cooperate more with private and organise public hospitals in a better way. For us in the Right, it's important that it's a publicly funded health service. For us, it's important that we don't get the class-shared healthcare system where people pay off the line, which we see the contours of under the red-green government. But then we have to dry out using the capacity we have with the private, through public funds. And it's not because people are going to get an offer they don't have the right or the right to – it's the patient rights that still determine who's going to be treated over public budgets. We also have to do something about ending the black player game and the powdering of responsibilities. There is a parallel between what the Gjørv Commission has pointed out in the entire emergency area, and what we see in the hospital debate on liability powdering. We don't get away from the fact that it's hard to figure out who is really responsible for the situation we have. The choice we're going to face next year is, in fact, whether we're going to lay the foundation for twelve years with a red-green government, or whether we're going to get a new bourgeois government, which has both new ideas and better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e487	The representative of Solberg said in his speech that every government always has more money at its disposal. But there are very big differences in how a red-green government and a right-wing government will spend the money. The right-wing leader calls for ‘new solutions’, but she does not present any new instruments, only old, tried-and-tested Right-wing policies dealing with tax cuts. Then I have registered that in the Right Programme proposal you go in to cut taxes as much as the last Right put in government. At that time, there was a riot against the rapporteur, a reduction in the number of teacher's years in school, and there was no commitment to transportation. We also see pictures from Bergen, where the right-wing town council has celebrated cutting property taxes with fireworks, while the students didn't get over their heads when the new school year began. Then my question is, where will the Right cut this time in welfare to make room for their tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e494	In the last seven years, the action space – subject to my taking it from my head now – has increased by 270 billion in the budget. kr in real money. Our tax breaks amount to approx. 8 pst. of it. I believe that it is fully possible both to invest significantly in well-being and to have tax relief at the same time. Then I have to say that I presented in my article new solutions that were not about taxes. I presented it to professionals, to decentralised education, to public-private cooperation – we have many solutions that are not about taxes. The History of the Workers' Party may need to be adjusted to the reality. I think that the policy of reality is better than the policy of rhetoric, and that is what I would recommend to the Workers' Party to start with. Our solutions are to build better well-being in the future, but at the same time to build safer jobs. Removing taxes on wealth means, for example: building safer jobs. Today, property taxes are dwindling the ability of enterprises to create further development of their jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e501	I register that the representative Solberg will not answer the question, but promise in both bag and bag. Let me then ask another question. I think many have registered that Right copy The Moderates in Sweden both in rhetoric and in politics, and Erna Solberg has himself pointed to Sweden as an inspiration for his own policy. There the bourgeois government has done exactly what the Right wants to do in Norway, cut taxes and privatize public welfare. There are high levels of unemployment, particularly among young people. The Swedish school is largely commercialized. This has led to increased differences and has resulted in poor performance in Swedish school, while progress has been made in Norwegian school results. Is there such a social development the right-wing leader wants, or does she think that the right-wing policy will work in a completely different way in Norway than in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e508	First of all, I want to say that we have never seen Sweden as a priority country in school policy. On the other hand, the Swedes have been with us looking at what we do — that is, what the Right does, not what you do, but what the Right does — in school policy to raise knowledge. They looked at our work around the promise of knowledge, which has helped us to get better results. Our focus is that we always have to work on doing what's going on in the classroom, better. We're going to bet on our own school policy. It's about making sure kids learn more. They meet more qualified teachers in the classroom. That's why we're more than double the effort on continuing education in our alternative budgets. For every student, meet a qualified teacher, a teacher who can actually do something about the social differences, a teacher who can help them crack the reading and writing code. It's important. Then I have to say to the ‘deduction’ of Swedish results: well, they have turned the economy around, they get more in work, but they have always had higher unemployment under social-democratic governments and conservative governments than we have in Norway, among other things. because they don't have the oil economy that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e515	The right-wing leader pointed wisely – I would say – to the great challenge we face in Europe in terms of economic development and unemployment. I wish, however, that from the right in Norway we had been presented with a little more humility in their analysis that their policies could also eventually lead Norway into the same path. That's one of the big dividing lines in this debate and in the time until the elections, where we have to choose a main line. There are very few societies where we can say that this liberal and market-driven economy has been successful overall — but it is not successful in small terms either. One example is from Solberg's own town, Bergen: they have removed the property tax, they have celebrated it with champagne, but then we see a big report saying that the schools in Bergen almost fall apart. Is there such a development that we will have if the Right should rule in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e524	I have great humility for what is happening in Europe, because I think we need to look at what is a challenge for the future of our entire continent. I also have great humility for the results that will come out of the fact that our competitive countries in Europe will come up with what is called ‘leaner & meaner’, i.e. they will be tougher in competition levels in the future and will be a major challenge for Norwegian businesses as well. But I wish we had heard some humility from the Norwegian left-hand side around the fact that the oil economy is the first thing that draws development, and look at those people in the eyes who are now struggling with their competitiveness, and who are losing their jobs in our country too, because we actually have some underlying economic problems. So to the situation in Bergen: Last year the government of today – at Kristin Halvorsen – Bergen municipality as number two on the list of best school owners in the country. So it can't be that everything is so terrible with the school in Bergen when this government says that the municipality of Bergen was the second best school owner last year, and they have the best school results of all the big cities in terms of primary school credits. That's actually very good quality in Bergen school!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e533	Humility in meeting the challenge in Europe is good, but I would also recommend humility in meeting the challenge in Bergen, because it is also an important place. Yesterday the news came that students at Natland School cannot get school education in school construction this winter but must get it in a lave. That's the result of nine years of right-wing rule. I want to ask Erna Solberg about another thing that has to do with knowledge: When the red-green government took over the autumn of 2005, there were 22,000 private schools ready for approval in the Ministry of Knowledge. This would lead to greater differences between school and students and increased centralisation in School-Norway. I have also previously challenged the Right Leader to respond to whether the Right now also wants to carry out such a large-scale privatisation of the school, but she has been unwilling to talk about it. My impression is that the Right has changed rhetoric, but not politics, and someone who will be Prime Minister must be able to clarify this. Will the representative Solberg open up thousands of new private school places in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e542	If the representative Lysbakken had read last year's throne debate, he would see that I have answered that very question clearly, in the same way that I do now. Since red-green politicians have used the last year to refer to that answer, maybe you shouldn't say that I don't answer that question. Yes, we want freedom of establishment for private schools in Norway as long as they follow the requirements laid down in the law. But we have also said in the draft programme that we have, that we want to have an opportunity for local municipalities to say that if this affects school provision so strongly that there is no more freedom of choice, then there should be an opportunity to stop it. It is stated in the draft programme that exists, and we think that is a good solution. I believe that Norwegian school will win at being the best in public school and not prevent other offers from coming in. I think that Norwegian school can compete for private offers if we conduct the Right Policy in public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e551	The representative, Erna Solberg, has recently been very concerned that we are coming across our support players in the EU, as she has suggested in some newspaper headlines. Of course, that statement was made in the discussion about the leakage that the government would introduce changes in customs protection for certain agricultural products. So she fears that we should push out supporters of the European Union. On this occasion, where we need to use the EEA Agreement's action space to ensure Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry, I just have to ask: what if you need support players if it costs billions of Norwegian value creation, thousands of Norwegian jobs, housing and activity throughout the country? Is it right to sell Norwegian food production, Norwegian food industry, in favour of an unconcerned relationship with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e558	I believe that the government's proposal to increase customs duties is the wrong answer. It's a wrong answer in a world in crisis that the country that goes best is facing more protectionism. I think that's unsolvable, and it creates a wrong spiral, and I actually think that the government should think more about it. It's also interesting to see that governments before actually have stated that it's important to prevent more protectionism. So now the government is doing that. I am concerned that, in more important matters, we need to influence other countries early in order to find solutions. We have e.g. a question about the depositor guarantee, which we are working hard on, in order to have better protection for Norwegian banking customers. Then we have to have support players, we have to have people who are willing to join in the way we think about it. I have worked hard to get a differentiated employer's fee reintroduced. For three years, I traveled, met, attended, and spoke with European politicians about Norwegian district policy. I had to have contacts and have people who were friends with us to get through our main district policy tool at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e566	Right-wing economic policy is anchored in business neutrality. The supply industry for oil and gas and the wood processing industry must therefore work under almost the same political framework. However, profitability is very different. The three-processing industry is in big trouble and is losing a lot. Two major companies are closed down, Follum and Peterson, and Folla in the Nord-Trøndelag stands for closure if nothing happens in particular. Large quantities of sand eels are now being sent as raw material to European industry. This is a loss for Norway and a loss for capable young people. It goes on the versatile business life of Højre, as the representative Solberg said. The centre party is based on a willingness to correct market forces, because the market alone has never provided good resource management. When will the Right Party follow the Centre and break down the business neutrality of industrial policy, thus allowing the business economy to convert wood processing into biochemicals with products with a good future market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e573	The last term ‘nutritional neutrality’ was used by a government was – I think – under the Stoltenberg I government, and it was then Finance Minister Karl Eirik Schøtt-Pedersen who used the term. We are concerned that there should be a level playing field for the business community, that some parts of the business should not be picked out. It is not business neutrality, but that there should actually be equal opportunities and means of competition. But we're busy working with the business community, for example. in research and development. In many areas, we have been involved in programmes that contribute to raising Norwegian business. For example, the entire Norwegian Centre of Expertise is a programme for research-based solutions, a programme to increase competitiveness with industry-specific instruments. That is why we are committed to helping the entire timber industry, everything that goes about it, to get opportunities for research and development and to have programmes for it. It's going to support the right under. But we're not going to make our own tax rules for that, because then we get a tax hole in a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e585	Seven years with red-green government and SV in government have changed Norway. Differences have decreased, employment has increased, the ambitions of climate policy have increased significantly, rail investment is historically high, and investment in and research into new environmental technologies and more environmentally friendly industries. Privatisation and tax relief have been replaced by the development of well-being and a fairer tax policy. We've built tens of thousands of kindergartens, and we've reduced the prices in kindergartens by one third. The parental leave and the parental quota have increased substantially. SV's old proposal on thirds has been adopted and the cash support for two-year-olds has been removed. The richest have increased taxes, while the smallest pensioners have increased their pensions. Municipal Child Protection has been given the greatest promise of 20 years. Norway has achieved the world’s most radical development policy, eliminated foreign debt and reached the target of 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. In school, we've had more hours and more teachers. School material has been provided free of charge, and teaching aids have been introduced to reduce the social differences in learning outcomes. The real growth in research since 2005 is about 27 pst. It's this course we're going to continue in the big year we're now starting. There is a red and green policy for the environment and justice we will go to elections next year, because the challenges in Norway are still great. We want to change more. We want to make Norway redder and greener. Almost no matter what kind of question you ask, knowledge is part of the answer. There is new knowledge to solve today's major challenges, such as the climate crisis. There is new knowledge to ensure the basis for well-being and prosperity in future Norway. The Norwegian school results show that we're on the right track. Reading skills are on the way up – the opposite of what is happening in Sweden, where the right-hand side controls. That's where the results go. A policy of knowledge must also be a policy of social cohesion. Childcare facilities for all and educational assistance in school are about giving all children the opportunity to participate in the knowledge society. Only a good public common school can help balance social differences and facilitate learning for all children, regardless of class background. Therefore, the choice between further public schooling and the privatisation that the right-hand side wants should become a central theme of the future political debate. When the red-green government took over in 2005, there were applications for 22 000 private school places and waiting for approval. Multiple private schools will result in increased differences. This will pose a major danger to A and B schools, thereby increasing the risk to A and B students. And privatisation means centralization. We have also seen this in Sweden, where the ideas that the Norwegian right-hand side will introduce in Norway have already been tested in practice. We are opposed to this development because we want different people to have equal opportunities. That's why we stopped the private school growth in 2005. Instead, for the last seven years, we have improved the general public school. I have to go back to Bergen – not only because Bergen is an important city, but also because Bergen can give us some important lessons about what the right side means when they say they're going to bet on the school. I allow myself to doubt that the policy we will have nationally if the right-hand side takes over is so very different from that of knowledge we have seen in my hometown. One reason why I allow myself to doubt the right-hand bet at school is that they still want to spend the big money on reducing taxes, as the City Council in Bergen has done with property taxes. Unlike the representative, Siv Jensen, I think 25 billion. NOK is a terrible amount of money. There is a terrible amount of money that could have been spent on improving well-being and making sure that our children learn more. But then we also see that the right-hand side has been tried out in many places in the country. In Bergen, the city council has for years neglected the maintenance of the school buildings. I visited earlier in the fall of Nattland school for a busy and pleasant talk with the teachers there. Now the same teachers have to teach their students in low school through the winter because the school buildings have become useless. That's not to bet on knowledge. In the countries around us, social differences are increasing. In Norway, differences decreased after 2005. There is a marked breach of a long trend in our country and of developments in the countries around us. It's because of politics. This is due to redistribution through the tax system, and it is due to low unemployment. We need to aim to reduce differences in Norway more in the coming years, because low differences provide a good and safe society. Then we have to use tax policy to distribute even better, not give tax relief to them most of the time. But we must prevent the social life from creating greater social differences. Fasting and whole jobs are the norm in Norwegian working life, creating a safer everyday life for ordinary people. It gives workers greater opportunities to influence their own workplaces and to influence society around them, and it helps to keep the differences down. That is why we need continued strong efforts to combat social dumping and to increase temporary employment. I am concerned that one of the areas in which the opposition parties, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, come together is precisely in favour of the opposite – on less regulation for the benefit of workers in Norwegian working life. The right has changed its rhetoric, but not its policy. In the public sector, we see the same thing. In Oslo and Tromsø, large-scale privatisation and outsourcing are now taking place. We know who pays the price for it. Many of the women who take the most serious vows in the welfare state on a daily basis are affected by privatisation policy. Instead of more privatisation, instead of more competition, we have to work to make use of everyone's powers. Only in the hospital sector are 30 000 nurses working part-time. That's why I'm glad that the government is paying so much attention to the goal of increasing full time and increasing positions for these women and men, who are doing such an important job for us. Over the last few years, I have visited the climate scientists at the Bjerknessenter, which is also located in Bergen. I was there last Monday. It's inspiring, because it shows that we have some of the world's leading researchers in our country. This is an example of a small country being a leading knowledge nation. But it is also frightening to visit climate scientists, because the results of research show that climate change poses a real, imminent threat to our future. The researchers in Bergen are now working on the next main report to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Some of the conclusions are already clear: there is even stronger reason to conclude that climate change is man-made, and we can now conclude that there is a link between human greenhouse gas emissions and increased temperature, more rain and decreasing glaciers. We see that the rate of de-icing is increasing. In September, ice in the Arctic reached a new bulge level. The ice is about to disappear. It means that something big is changing, with dramatic effects on food, water supply and the entire human community. It is in the coming years that we can take action to achieve the two-degree goal and prevent it from developing. The climate communication and the climate agreement are a good platform for Norwegian efforts. We have set ambitious targets, we have set out concrete measures, and we have shown that we understand that not being a world champion in climate policy at the same time is no good. We also need to cut Norwegian emissions. Rich countries need to go ahead and invest in technological developments that allow us to reduce global emissions. Reducing emissions at home is not about everything we can't do. It's not about fewer jobs or less industry. In reality, it's the opposite. Building the low-carbon society is about modernising Norway – about new and more energy-efficient houses, new cars, new energy sources, new environmentally friendly industrial workplaces. It is about linking the country with the railways and cities together with good collective solutions – about making everyday life easier, the opportunities for business more, and better delivery. The low-emission society can be amazing, if we start building it early enough. I end there – with what is the most important question of our time. It is my hope that both this debate, this big year and the forthcoming election campaign will reflect on it. Because it's only if we raise the climate issue to the place it deserves – case number one, priority number one – that our generation of elected people takes our responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e624	I think it's interesting that the representative Lysbakken is now hammering on an example of a municipal school building, while he himself might need to take a walk around the country's hospital and see what the structural state of health is, which in many areas is quite close to the description he criticizes the municipality of Bergen. It is a responsibility of this government representative Lysbakken. I registered that he was not so concerned about health in his post. It is perhaps because SV does not think that what they have achieved in health policy is so much to boast about. After all, the light-ground should be concerned with getting a more ideological SV. After seven years with SV in government, we ever see the largest class division in Norwegian health care. Never before have so many had private insurance. Never before has it been that the rich, or those who have enough money, can buy past all health cows, while those who do not have it have to wait for a public offer. Is the Light Hill proud of this result after seven years in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e631	The biggest threat to our welfare state is if we get a classed healthcare system, where more and more people choose private solutions. It is precisely the development of the right-hand side that will open up when they want to further expand private commercial capacity. In fact, we only have a given number of doctors, nurses and health professionals in Norway. We should use those forces and resources to improve the public system as much as possible. I don't like the development of more private health insurance. I believe that it is far on the way unnecessary. We see that it is largely employers and not individuals who take out those insurances. It's a much more fairer way to bring down the queues to ensure that we continue to improve the public health system. It's also just the way we can prevent us from getting parallel systems, which, unfortunately, I think both the Advance Party's and the Right's policies will stimulate much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e636	Here there were some strange reasonings. We have a class-shared society today, because we don't have full capacity utilisation through the use of private solutions, which are publicly funded. Neither the Advancement Party nor any other non-socialist party opens up the possibility of having a health system to pay out of one's own wallet. The point is that it's going to be publicly funded. But for ideological reasons, the Lightbaking refuses to use the capacity that is there. If this is an ideological question, do you have to choose to ban private offers – is that what SV and Lysbaken want? Or do they want the same thing as the Progress Party, namely to have an equivalent, real health offer to all citizens, regardless of their own wallet, so that you can choose between public and private solutions? Why is it that, for SV and the Light Basin, ideological markings are more important than the health of citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e641	I'm glad the representative admits that we have a class-shared society – that's what the Progress Party rarely does. Fortunately, a classed health care system is much smaller than most other countries. My goal is to keep going on like that. Then we have to make sure that we have increased staffing in the public sector. Both in hospitals and in the care of the elderly, we can save resources and get better health care if we increase basic staffing, reduce temporary work, get more jobs and pay for the employees. Both in hospitals and in the care of the elderly, we can achieve better results if we drop employees to a greater degree with their creativity to find solutions to problems that they may know better than anyone else. Building up the private capacity would mean the opposite. It will mean that we step by step towards a society where it's just the wallet and not the need to decide what kind of offers we get. It is ideology from the right that will lead to a worse health care system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e646	In the last few days, there has been a discussion about government management wages, which are high, especially in a concrete public owned property company. I saw that the head of the Socialist Youth, where the representative Lysbakken entered his political children's shoes, said in a good left-wing radical way: Heads must roll. There were slightly different tones from the representative Aksel Hagen as in the class struggle today under the heading ‘Nothing is happening!’ said the following: ‘But it’s like the leadership pay debate: we criticise and criticise but do not approach concrete solutions and changes.’ When nothing happens, is it because there is no executive power in the government, or is it simply because of a breach of promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e656	Now, well, low management wages aren't among the things that have historically been a fan case for the Right. So I appreciate that the right-hand side has begun to care about that question. It is of great importance that the differences between those who have leading positions in our society and ordinary people do not become too large. The symbolic power in it is great. The practical importance of trust among people in Norway, due to small differences, is high. That's why it's an important goal for us to slow down the growth of leadership wages. This has been the goal of the government for a long time, and has tried different instruments to achieve it. If we do not succeed, we must try more and better instruments. I am absolutely sure that there is a red-green government that needs to find the answers to that. I have no faith that the right-hand side, when it comes to the problem, will be concerned with reducing the differences in Norway. Instead, you have a program to increase them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e666	Now this is a line to the representative Light Hill. I did not think it was a very good answer to the question. It was an overall reasoning, but the representative Lysbakken did not answer the question at all. So under the heading ‘Nothing is happening!’ the representative Aksel Hagen said in today’s class struggle: ‘We criticise and criticise but do not resort to concrete solutions and changes.’ Perhaps the representative Lysbakken could share with Stortinget what concrete solutions and changes he sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e676	What Hagen is addressing in the Class struggle today is an incredibly important issue related to public sector bureaucracy. Since the introduction of the hospital reform, an excessive proportion of the new positions that have taken place in the hospital have been linked to administration. We see that too much of the health professionals' daily lives go to administrative tasks. We have to do something about that. These include: to take a settlement with too much public sector market thinking. In some areas, the red-green government has done well. I think it is wrong that nothing is happening in that area. There's a lot of important things going on. Among other things, we see that in parts of the health care system, employees are released to a greater extent when it comes to developing new solutions, such as: reduce waiting lists and increase efficiency. There is a high potential for improving the efficiency of the public sector, but it must come from within and through the skills and resources of employees, rather than the traditional recipe of the right with more competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e681	The languages of the throne are a speech where the government can talk about its visions, goals and not least its priorities. What we see as the government says about the field of asylum and immigration are the following: ‘In the field of alienation, the Government emphasises an effective and legal return practice. It is a goal of the Government that persons who do not fulfil the conditions for residence in the country are to be returned quickly, preferably voluntarily, but if necessary by coercion.» Now all the parties are some that we should have a secure return. But is this all the government has to report on the whole field of asylum and immigration? My questions to the representative Lysbakken are: Is he satisfied with the government's policy on asylum and immigration? Don't SV just have a broader perspective on this than the languages of the throne show?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e693	You can find a lot of problems that could be beneficially more widespread than what you can in a throne speech. I believe that what is said about asylum policy is wise. In addition, it is important to promote what the government does for children. There the government has said that asylum seekers should now be given the opportunity to try their cases against new guidelines. I'm excited about the results, because it's important that we have a treatment for asylum-seekers in Norway that's raw and good. Similarly, we have seen important positive aspects of asylum policy in the red-green years. It's e.g. more than before. It is important that we make it possible for people with a real need for protection to receive asylum, not just stay on a humanitarian basis. I remember working on these things, among other things. at the end of the 1990s when the Christian People's Party sat with the Minister of Justice. It was a year there was only one person who got asylum in Norway. So it's going to go forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e700	Now we've heard how SV defines this in the future. If you put the number of thrones next to each other and look at both the first throne of the government and the last, it's always been a sentence on immigration. The difference is that the first century used the word “human” and the last used word “force”. It is the evolution that has been under this government. I understand that SV has surrendered in relation to the entire asylum field. We see daily what happens to our asylum children. If you've made a big message, at least it doesn't lead to any change in practice, we've seen it every day. So to the area that is really not so much about humanity or human rights, but which is a little about the welfare of Norway, namely labour immigration. We need labour immigration in order to build Norwegian welfare. I think everyone should agree on that. But here we see that the bureaucracy created to stop asylum seekers is also being created to stop those who come here to build well-being with us. We have tabled a proposal today – why can't SV support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e709	As the proposal has been submitted today, I have to read it before I answer that particular question. With regard to asylum policy, the reality is that there are some issues where the dividing lines go across the blocks of Norwegian policy. I think the representative Trine Skei Grande and we in SV could agree on a lot in asylum policy quite quickly, at the same time it is a majority in Norwegian policy that has drawn in many questions relating to asylum in a different direction. I believe it is important and right that SV, among others. have provided better treatment for asylum-seekers through our government participation. I think the representative Trine Skei Grande is bold who will already sum up the results. I think it is a cross of thought that this criticism comes from one who wants to give the Progress Party power over Norwegian policy, and therefore also over Norwegian asylum policy in the future. Realism in getting a better asylum policy – seen with our common eyes – along with the Progress Party, I think is equal to zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e718	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e721	If we are to believe polls and some commentators, the red-green government goes into a destiny year. After seven years of policies for equivalent living conditions throughout the country, there are some who believe that enough is enough, that everything has its time, and that it is time to let others go. From this persuasion to the next, Norwegian people are challenged to choose the path that social development will take. We have this fasitite in one year, but I can promise that this destiny year will be filled with all the force and weight that grass roots in the three red-green parties can mobilize, so that all of Norway will continue to be used, and so that everyone in Norway will get it even a little better, but without risking security. Who and what is really the red-green project? Yeah, after seven years, most people know the answer to that, but I think it's healthy to remember that anyway. I'm proud to say that we're an average of most people -- workers, farmers, teachers, accountants, carpenters, etc. – who know the Norwegian working day and the Norwegian everyday life, who know that changes are happening gradually, and that saved funds will be used with care. Some would argue that our policies are both solid and boring. Then I can make sure it's not. We've got a lot, but everything's not good. So the community is changing, and then we also have to do the problems in new ways. But it is still a fact that the last few years have been marked by major and, on the one hand, major reforms and renewal projects in the Norwegian society, changes that gradually make everyday life better for most people. I'm proud that we have launched the Interaction Reform, a reform that will reverse public health from repairing to prevention. I believe that the defence goes through a powerful modernisation, and that agriculture and the food industry are now better equipped to meet the challenges of the future. We have a national transport plan that ensures a historically increased development of road and rail, we have a cultural promise, we have child care – among many things. The balance between building the country and ensuring security and predictability is demanding and sometimes a rather uncompromising exercise. It is tempting to allow all good purposes to be satisfied with more money. But even at the entrance to a demanding election year, we do not go beyond the responsibility of our red-green project. We're given confidence in ruling the country, but we don't argue with cheap points and expensive projects if it affects people's security for work and their own economy. We do not pump money through the state budget to steal a vote for the 2013 elections. We maintain the long-termity and stability that underpin our policies. We're not going to consume anymore, we're going to manage better. If we shake people's safety, we can't say with our hands on the heart that we work for the benefit of the Norwegian people. Home security is in stark contrast to a Europe experiencing a continuous crisis. We still know little about the consequences of this crisis. The construction of the Union is becoming increasingly complex – and the monetary union. No one can argue that the situation here is stable, can't it? It is then essential that Norway is conscious of its relationship with the rest of Europe, that we are able to protect our national interests, but at the same time contribute, for example. as we've done with many tens of billions to the IMF. I believe that the Norwegian people are aware of the Serb attitude of the Right towards the European Union, that it is with lua in hand and almost uncritically swallows everything that comes from Brussels. In today’s Business yesterday, Erna Solberg exemplifies this servility with the harsh criticism of the Prime Minister for having been ‘too weak in the meeting with an active no-side, neglected the EU debate and forced to use up Norway’s political goodwill in Europe’ on the representative of Solberg, who calls ‘unimportant and wrong matters’. I have to say that the Prime Minister and the government do nothing but defend Norway's interests towards the EU. And it was just supposed to be missing! It is the government's duty to make use of that space of action, that dynamics, such as: The EEA Agreement shall apply. We have this opportunity in Norway because we have said no to join the EU – and fortunately: there is still a sunny majority in the people for us to be outside. One consequence of our exclusion is just the possibility of debate on what I would call important and correct matters. Such a case is customs duties on agricultural products – within the framework of the WTO Agreement. The paradox is that here is the Right and also the Progress Party of the EU – lower customs protection, more free trade. Where is the loyalty of these parties? The EU has a clear objective of increasing exports of agricultural products to Norway, which are already tens of billions per year, and which have increased dramatically in recent years. There are Norwegian interests and values that are being harmed by Norwegian food production are being replaced by increased imports from the EU. The Right Party and the Progressive Party set Norwegian industries, agriculture and fish against each other, and nod with consent to EU threats of counter-reactions. Let me say that in this way, the two parties damage our national interests and manufacture Norway as a different country with special interests. Had Norway, as Right wanted, been a member of the EU, we would not have had an open debate on how to exploit the space for action in the EEA Agreement, or on the possibility of securing Norwegian food production through higher rates of customs duties, or even on the extent to which working life should be part of the EEA Agreement. At that time, we had been even more given to Brussels and the political struggle between the Member States. We are increasingly seeing the EU’s appetite and attempts to establish a framework for the management of Norway’s natural resources. In these days, I am grateful that we can still take both the debates and the decisions ourselves in Norway. In my heart, our political societal mission is to build the country from below and upwards. I get – let me say it like that – bad vibrations on the right side that constantly remind us that the country will be governed from above and down. The Norwegian people have said resoundingly no to the EU, and that means that we need to be careful to ‘snick-EUalise’ Norwegian policy. In fact, we nordics decide in this country, and that's the way it still has to be. When we follow the debate in the media and here in the hall, it is interesting to hear the right-hand side description of Norwegian society and promises of ‘total change’ in a number of areas. I don't think people most want total changes in a country we ourselves describe as the world's best country to live in. It's the little changes that affect people's everyday lives. It's about simple values like healthy and safe food on the table, safe roads in the community, a decent and good care for the elderly, a forward-looking school for our kids and an environment we can be proud of. When we stick our finger in the ground and look around us, it's not dramatic changes we need. We need a gradual improvement in what we already have, for example. in the care of the elderly. No one was unaffected by the NRK pulse on Monday this week, where Jannicke Kristoffersen from Heimdal gave us a thought-provoking picture of inadequacy and scarcity of resources. We were all affected by that report, but we should not be resigned, and I will tell you why: Only in the municipal health service there have been 22,000 new employees since 2005; of course because there have been new and more hands needed. The pressure that domestic services continue to experience shows that society is constantly evolving, and we are not going to end up, to say the least. Several municipal funds must be put in place if Jannicke is to be given the opportunity to provide more dignified care to the users at Heimdal. The centre party is a strong political grassroots movement that will contribute to ordinary people in branches and small towns sitting at the table when the good is distributed. We are guarantors of healthy Norwegian values, strong and viable communities and sustainable Norwegian food production. We will be ordinary people's closest ombudsmen in the demanding jungle called the state, and this grassroots movement has no plans to drop the roof.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e764	Let me first clarify some misunderstandings. The Progress Party is not concerned by the EU in the sense of increasing customs barriers. What worries us is that the result is likely to affect Norwegian consumers. The movement of grassroots to the Centre Party will be affected by less diversity, freedom of choice and higher prices – that will be the result. I hear the representative Breck boasted unhindered by the developments that have taken place under this government, especially in the districts. My impression is the opposite. I think we got a good signal in the spring when the government was going to run a farm, where there was a big uprising against the Senter party, among other things. My simple question to the representative Breck is: Is Norwegian agriculture stronger today than seven years ago – both in terms of competition with the EU, and also in terms of individual farmers themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e773	Yes, Norwegian agriculture is stronger today. It is stronger because we have had to adapt to a new reality, we have further developed many of the framework conditions and policies that lead to what development should be like. It has not been said that everything is good enough, that things cannot get better – let it also be said from my position here – but it is a better situation than before. Further ambitions must, of course, be to ensure the framework conditions for agriculture so that in the future we will also have the opportunity to produce food throughout the country, as this government is in favour of – and the policy of the Progress Party will not lead to. At that time, customs changes within the WTO Agreement are an important instrument in this context. This will help to ensure both Norwegian food production, Norwegian food industry and Norwegian consumers good Norwegian food.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e781	Then I get the message. The fact that the Central Party has achieved a positive impact in this government on increased rates of customs duties, in order to increase the income of the farmer, is due to the loss of the Central Party's fight linked to agricultural settlement. Now Norwegian consumers are going to pay for the Centre Party to increase and gain new respect in agriculture. The truth is that whenever the Central Party sits in government, agriculture is being built down. The situation in agriculture is actually this way today – if I may say so, because Breck was probably in the year of fate in 2013, and it seemed interesting to me – that if the battle at Stiklestad had stood today, it would have been thin under the mark of Breck. He had not been able to put a peasant army at all. And that's the result, no matter when the Center Party sits in government. Is it not soon that the Central Party sees agriculture as a service to bear every day by continuing this museum policy, and that it is likely that it will be ragnarok on the day the WTO comes up with new demands on Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e788	Let me stress again: the changes in the rates of duty proposed are within the scope of the action envisaged by the WTO Agreement through the 1995 Decision. I also believe that the Progress Party probably voted in favour of that decision in 1995. So the question is how do we use that space of action? Then the Center Party and I are very concerned that we are going to ensure Norwegian food production throughout the country. That's the government's policy, too. We've been doing it over the last seven years through agricultural settlement. So it's the way, as the representative Sandberg also emphasizes, that everything is not good enough. We could have wanted more, we could have wanted to have come further. But at the same time, it is quite clear that the Progress Party has proposed every year in its budgets would have shaved Norwegian agricultural production, which would have shaved the food production we have in many parts of the country. That is when the challenge the Progress Party must answer for, I cannot answer for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e795	We heard earlier this week The King holds the last throne in this period, i.e. before the next roll-up option. Then it would be natural to have a cross-political expectation that the government parties had made their respective landmarks visible in the throne when it comes to what has been done in the past years under red-green majority rule. The Centre Party’s programme states that ownership is ‘basic to sound resource management and social development’. Right-wing agreement. But when we look at the caste thrones under the red-green government, property rights are not mentioned in a single word in a single throne speech, nor this time. The only thing mentioned is state ownership. My question to the President of the Central Party is whether he can point out what the Red-Green Government has done to strengthen ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e807	I guess that's not the case, I think, that the census is used to present a political account. The languages of the throne say something about what we're going to do in the year we're going into. Property rights have been discussed in many situations in this government. And I would like to remind Mr. Werp that we have just dealt with an agricultural report in which ownership is thoroughly covered and discussed, and in which a decision was taken during the discussion on, among other things. changes in sharing practices and in land change legislation, etc. So it's not right in this government that you haven't worked on ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e814	I remember a few thousand farmers who protested against this message. I do not doubt the honest and heartfelt desire of the representative to strengthen ownership. I also want to commend the representative for the job he did in his capacity as State Council. But it's the results that count. In the representative's own county is 65 pst. of the mature forest in so-called non-interventional natural areas. These are areas that are subject to strict restrictions without being regulated and without replacement of the landowner, while the forest industry in the North Trøndelag is crying for more raw material to run its production. Now they have to import from Sweden. So I repeat my question: is the representative satisfied with the result of the work of the Centre Party to strengthen ownership under the red-green majority rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e823	I am satisfied with our work on ownership, but I am not satisfied – let me say – with the work of finding solutions to the challenges posed by Norwegian forestry by the INON regulations. On the other hand, in the Nord-Trøndelag there has been a joint effort between industry and government and local government to go through the resources available, and also to find out how to make better use of them, because in this way it provides industry with more local raw material. I look forward to the result of this work. I am also looking forward to the Ministry of the Environment delivering the INNON bill that has been promised and that has not yet arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e832	If there's anything about the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, it's that we have to use the whole country. This was shown to us in the Christian People's Party when we were in government. Together with the Right and the Left, we managed to move out more than 800 government jobs to different parts of the country. There were seven state supervision. Since 2005, we have experienced full stoppages. Then the question is, is it because the government feels that there is too little pressure in the Oslo area? Is it that the spread of power is not a good principle to follow up? With the problems of stability the government has, this should have been a very good tool for the government as its own. Partisan Life Signe Navarsete has characterized this government's efforts in this area as embarrassing. Is the representative in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e839	It's true, as the representative Hareide says, that we agree that we are going to use the whole country. Making sure that we have the circulation of jobs, both private and public, is not least important. We see today – let me say – the creepy trends of centralisation, especially in the eastern part of Oslo and also in the big cities. Me and the Center Party believe that we should use the opportunity to move out jobs, including state jobs. It is true that during this period of government we have not come as far in this area as we have wanted. It's an ambition we have to continue working on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e846	Business policy, value creation and entrepreneurial policy are important for the Left. I think it's for the Center Party, too. We've come a little way through the fact that the audit obligation for small companies, small companies, is gone, and that there are reduced capital requirements. It's good and something left has worked for too long. But there are still some measures that are also important for the Left. It's e.g. improved access to initial capital and risk capital and, in particular, better social rights for self-employed persons. Is this something the Center Party will work for in the Red-Green Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e853	Over the seven years we have been in government, as the representative Tenden has said, important things have been done in terms of improving policy for small and medium-sized enterprises. The audit obligation and reduced capital requirements are mentioned here, which we agree is good. I would also like to stress that there are considerable resources available to ensure access to risk capital through the instrument we have. We have Innovation Norway, SIVA and some fund structures that contribute to this. We are dedicated to continuing to work to help ensure such access where it is needed. In terms of social rights, there's also an ambition in us to improve these. There are things done in this area, especially for women who need it. But you haven't come far enough yet, we think in the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e863	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e866	Current countries with budget deficits and low unemployment are rare in today's Europe. Norway is a rare country. I have recently been on a committee tour in Spain and Portugal. There I met the much more common reality in Europe, the one with high unemployment, economic decline and a lot of debt. This is behind both the government and we in the opposition must bring us into our political debate. The state budget that comes on Monday will once again be the history of the largest government budget in Norway, with more resources available than last. In 2012, for the first time, the figure was 1 000 billion. kr passed. I've recently seen the film Oljeberget, a good movie – maybe not an Oscar movie, but a useful reminder. Here we could see Prime Minister candidate Stoltenberg at the end of the election campaign 2005. He gets questions about why the Bondevik administration has to be replaced. He then says that we have never had a government with a higher income than the Bondevik government, never has a government spent more money than the Bondevik government, that the differences have increased, and that the number of poor people has increased. There is a good enough reason to change government on 12 September, said Stoltenberg in 2005. So he got to take over himself. In 2006, the red-green government had 680 billion. D to the eligibility of the State budget. Now they have well over 1 000 billion. kr. The red-green government is the luckiest government in history when it comes to economic freedom of action. There are more poor children today than when they joined the Red-Green people. Today, over 70,000 children grow up in families with a continuing low income. While the employment has gone up, the employment of disabled people has fallen. Thousands are still in line for drug treatment, and the government is helping to put down drug treatment sites run by ideals. It is good that the government of the throne announces the launch of an attempt with advocacy for employers to assign disabled people. But it's only now, in the eighth year of the red-green government. This is a scheme that only applies to 300 people and is to last until 2015. It is the only concrete national poverty response that is being identified. What about our international responsibility for poverty – which is the increasingly rare example on land, with a sustained and ever-increasing prosperity? In each budget, the Christian People's Party has been able to influence, we have prioritised the poor of the world. So it is, and so it shall be if the Christian People's Party is affected. And we want to have an impact. That's why it's easy for us to say no to the red-green availability of stands for four new red-green years. That's why the Christian People's Party says there's a need for a shift. That's why the Christian People's Party says we want to be a solution for a shift. First of all, we want to change because of a word that is important to the Christian People's Party, a word that is important to most people in Norway, a word that was not used once in the government's Common Era: family. The Christian People's Party will facilitate the needs of families. It is good that the government announces a message about the future kindergarten. That's what's needed, because there's a lot of babysitting there for the kids. Therefore, good quality of kindergartens is important. However, the government can sometimes be suspected of praising kindergartens primarily because it can allow parents to work more. If children are in kindergarten, parents can contribute to higher employment and growth. Christian People's Party thinks differently: We want flexibility. We want freedom of choice. We want family members to decide for themselves. Therefore, we want families who want kindergarten when the children are one year old to be offered it, regardless of when the child was born. But that's also why we want families who want to spend more time with their child to have the choice and the possibility. Family and work interests must be able to be combined. Our starting point for that is not working life. Our starting point is that parents are replaceable at work, but irreplaceable home. Second, the Christian People's Party wants a shift because ethics has to go through the technique. The wish of the Labour Party and the SV for early ultrasound for all pregnant women is probably the most serious example of a long series of suggestions where the Christian People's Party of the Government does not see the care of the children and their dishes first. Health benefits for early ultrasound have not been demonstrated, but there is evidence that there will be fewer children born with Downs or other disabilities. Thus, at a time when pressure is exerted on the financial and personal resources of health services, the government wants to prioritize the screening of all pregnant women, without providing health benefits, but with the result that several children are removed based on property. The Christian People's Party wants the journey to the sorting society to be stopped. The Christian People's Party wants everyone to go. Thirdly, we want a shift because we want to release volunteering from government control. The Christian People's Party says that volunteering lives by lust and death under coercion. We therefore want the voluntary sector to avoid taxing its voluntary nature through full exemption from VAT. We simply need a government that supports volunteering, not trying to control it. Fourthly, children and young people today have a great deal of opulence. They need identity and access. They need compasses and anchors. SV can take note of this saying in government: They got made about the CRL subject of the RLE subject, and removed the point that Christianity is going to be 55 pst. of the subview. It's a clumsy and historyless saying. Today, Christianity is just one third of the subject, and the government has also chosen to make RLE optional in teacher training. Many more than traditional churchgoers are concerned that the knowledge of the Christian cultural base must not be lost. They understand that this is not about preaching, but they see that this is about knowledge of Christianity being a key to understanding Norwegian and European culture and tradition today, and to orientation in Norwegian society. It is also an important part of integration policy. The Christian People's Party will therefore once again have a greater place in the RLE subject. There is a need for an increased understanding of the meaning of Christianity for individuals and society. Fifthly, we want a shift to ensure that the needs of the individual are met in the care of the elderly. The Christian People’s Party brings out care for the elderly in many ways. We are fighting for the guarantee of dignity in two previous election campaigns. I really hope that the government doesn't think it's a good idea that the Christian People's Party should also have to talk in the 2013 election campaign about the guarantee of dignity in the care of the elderly, which was laid down in 2010, but which is still not good enough in place. We had to remind the government of the lifting in 2011. It doesn't hold to say a guarantee of dignity, it also has to be followed up. The Christian People's Party wants a new government that, in the field by field, is more responsive and open to provide a basis for value anchoring central and Christian democratic solutions. Christian People's Party will be a solution for a shift: for a new, visionary and forward-looking policy for a modern and multicultural Norway for a family policy that facilitates the needs of families, do not try to guide them for the needs of individuals, not just the system's demands for increased understanding of the meaning of Christianity for individuals and for society for stopping the journey towards the sorting society for the fight against poverty at home and for human dignity at the centre
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e932	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e935	There were some questions raised by my representative, Mr Hareide, during his speech. The Christian People's Party has always been a good partner for us in the great freedom project called the kindergarten expansion, which we've seen in order to give young people a good everyday life, a place they can learn, a place they can develop, a place where they can become acquainted with themselves and others. That is why I have to ask the representative Hareide: how do you imagine that they can give parents and young people the freedom and security when they want to cooperate with the Progress Party, which is in favour of a welfare fund for which you could receive 702,576 kindergartens or 100,600 teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e940	In my post I gave tribute to the government for the efforts that have been made in kindergarten. But the starting point for the Christian People's Party is that we want family members to be allowed to choose. We want those who want to use the good kindergartens to get that possibility. As you can see, a paradox is that when it comes to the children born after 1 September, a lot of them may have to wait until they are two years before they get a nursery place today. I took that up in my post. It is precisely the freedom of choice that we feel that the government has lowered its priorities. By cutting the cash benefit, there will be less freedom of choice. The Christian People's Party has never said that everyone should choose a cash subsidy, but we have been concerned that the family should choose what is best for them. Families are different, and therefore, if the Christian People's Party comes to power and influence, it will be optional for families who will be our priority in family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e947	It's not that easy to choose to have your kids in kindergarten when there's no nursery to send them in. I've always seen Christian People's Party as a party that wants to be perceived as a party on the smallest side. The representative Hareide has said that they are now on the right side, a party that, if one adds together their proposed welfare fund, price adjustment for child welfare, increases child care price and increases VAT, will allow families with two kindergartens to pay for tax cuts that benefit the richest. Then I just have to ask the representative Hareide, what happened? When do you change layers? When did the Christian People's Party go from showing solidarity with those who are at the bottom of the table to showing solidarity with those who are at the top?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e954	The President will draw the attention of the representative Christensen to the fact that all speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e957	I agree with the view that Christensen's representative has of the Christian People's Party: we are a party that fights for those who need it the most, and the Christian People's Party comes to do when it comes to different political positions and influences that I think we can have. But we should also be aware of what the alternative is for the Christian People's Party. We've been very clear on what the red-green government has said. They have said that they have one plan, and Martin Kolberg himself has said that thinking about something else is just nonsense. Then the Christian People's Party has to ask itself the question, how are we going to have an impact? What should we do to make the policy of the Christian People's Party as effective as possible? If we think we're getting a shift, we're going to do more when it comes to the fight against poverty in Norway. When we sat together with the Right in the government, we managed to get historical support. What do we see that the Conservative Government in the United Kingdom is doing? Well, they cut in almost all areas, but not when it comes to the fight against poverty internationally. It's brave and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e964	I will follow up: So the Christian People's Party has decided to go to the elections next year to bring the Advance Party into the government offices. A Right and Advance Party-dominated government will give priority to tax relief, we must believe the program of the parties – tax relief to the richest. The taxes on wealth are to be abolished, and billionaires are to be zero-taxed again as they were before the red-green government joined. This means a tax relief of 25 billion to 100 billion. kr. This will meet the challenge of the future in the school and health sectors. My question to the Christian People's Party and Hareide is: Where has the Christian People's Party intended to cut budgets in the years that come to finance these tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e973	I think I'll start by saying what the Christian People's Party has actually said. What we've said is that we want to be a solution to a shift. To get a shift, we're willing to talk to all the parties on the non-socialist side. The red-green have said that their only plan is to go to the options to get a new multiple. I respect that. Then we want to get a shift. Then we want to talk to all the parties. Our preferred option is a government with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. It is precisely the fiscal policy that has emerged in the debate earlier in this Chamber. Then there's our criticism to the Right that they're dampening their tax havens, and I've been happy to record that I see a right today that's closer to the center of many political areas, and so I think that a relaunch of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party can be easier than under Bondevik II.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e982	I hear Parliamentary leader Hareide say in his speech that he wants a new government oriented towards and value anchored in the centre. That's at least how I perceived it. Former Prime Minister Bondevik calls government cooperation with the Progress Party unlikely, and he believes that it is the Party's view of value that must underlie whether the Christian People's Party should find its place in the political landscape. The issues of value, I can mention poverty and aid, drug policy, immigration and asylum policy, at least as I see it, show that there can be light years between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. For us who look at the opposition parties at a certain distance, it is difficult to see how they will come to an agreement on a comprehensive policy. So it is that the Christian People's Party now says that they have a priority desire for solution. Cooperation in individual matters can succeed in all parties, but how can the value of the Christian People’s Party be reconciled with the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e992	The representative Breck is well aware that Kjell Magne Bondevik is a wise man. He himself has been in charge of government for a short period of time. This is what the Christian People's Party has been very honest about. We have said that there is little likelihood of a government that includes both the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, precisely because we believe that the political difference between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party is so great that it will be difficult, for example, in matters mentioned here by Breck. But it is also a paradox that in important areas of the Christian People's Party this government has also gone against the Christian People's Party. It is in the family field, and it is in the fight against the sorting society, where the government has changed the biotechnology law. They did that already in the first grossing-up period. There will now be new proposals that will lead to liberalisation that is opposed to what the Christian People's Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e999	Hareide tries to answer the questions about why the Christian People's Party is now suddenly more comfortable to cooperate with parties on the more unsocial part of the political scale. After all, Hareide must see here in Oslo how it is commercialisation, and how the negative attitudes of the Progress Party towards individual groups are allowed to dominate. Our elderly people have become merchandise, and those who work hard to take care of them are being deprived of pay and pensions. Ideally, nursing homes have had a hard time competing with the commercial ones. Now, too, the Progress Party, at the latest here in Stortinget, will ban a silent prayer before the exam. It says a little bit about the attitudes. Even the poorest people in the world have guaranteed the Progress Party to make things harder for them in government. The Christian People's Party has said that they think it is ageless if the Advance Party comes into government. If Siv Jensen gains power, will the Christian People's Party expect them to gain more power than the Advance Party? What is it that makes this policy and these attitudes now suddenly appeal to the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1008	I am pleased to be supported by the Workers' Party when there is a silent prayer. But I think there's a paradox in Wickholm's representative here. He mentions, among other things: the ideal institutions. Yes, what have we experienced under the red-green government? In 2010, we experienced 17 non-profit institutions being laid down. HSH – what they are now called – said that if these developments continue, we could risk all the non-profit institutions in Norway being brought down within five to ten years. So we know that yesterday the government and the non-profit institutions signed an agreement. But it's in government's eighth year that they've got to grips with the challenge associated with the non-profit institutions. I agree that there is no answer to go to the right-hand side solutions and let the market mechanism steer completely. It could also be a challenge for non-profit institutions. That's why there are solutions in the center that have to be selected in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1015	It was nice to right that Hareide had countermeasures against the market forces. I think he's going to get really hard about these countermeasures with his new bedmates in a possible government. But what I've been thinking about is agricultural policy. When we had settled in our agriculture, the Christian People's Party went out hard against the government because they had too bad a say for the peasants, among other things. for weak customs protection. Now the government has arranged for a better customs protection, and then the new bedmates go to the Christian People's Party hard against the government, and the Christian People's Party goes and hides. What I'm asking is: does the Christian People's Party want the agricultural policy for which the Right and the Advance Party stand, or the one for which the Red-Green Government stands?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1022	The Christian People's Party does not go and hide. We are in the debates. There are not so many who have asked us about customs protection, but we have also been in the NRK associated with these debates. What we have said is that it is difficult to decide on this before we have seen it, because it is a leak from the government and not a matter that has come to Stortinget. Maybe we should have waited until we get the case here before we take the final position. But the Christian People's Party is basically positive. It must also be a paradox for the red-green government that while the Christian People's Party was in government with the Right and the Left, we managed to settle agriculture in agreement with the League of Bonds every year. So the red-green government couldn't do it this year. Then there was a violation of the agricultural negotiations. It never happened when the Christian People's Party sat in government with the Right and the Left and negotiated agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1029	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1032	Europe is struggling. The transformations that take place in the countries around us are enormous. Europe will look different in a few years. The challenge for Norway is, then, that we need to change and prepare, invest in research, invest in knowledge and invest in the environmental change that needs to take place, in order to be clear when Europe is ready again, because we need to have a force into the future to have a well-being and a Norway that creates jobs and new, good solutions for the future. That's why the Left wants a shift. We want to make a bourgeois government more green and more warm. Then we have to choose liberal solutions. The country needs a willingness to renew and manage. It seems that we have a government that is almost caught by the system, without the ability to build visions for the communities we actually have, without the ability to renew the welfare state, stop the growth of bureaucracy and build the welfare state of the future by renewing the welfare state we have. You often meet with arrogance, with closedness, with disclaimer, and it seems that the chair is the foremost strategic management. What do you get with the left? Well, you get a commitment to knowledge, because that's what we're going to create jobs and well-being with in the future. We must have several good teachers who feel that they have good professional backing in the classroom. Then we don't just have to have candidates for the teacher's schools. We actually have to have teachers coming out at the other end as well, when we see all the places in the teacher's education that are available. Yes, we have to increase the status of the profession, and then we have to do the education five years. We must stop having a resting-point in the field of research and reduce basic appropriations to universities and colleges. What we are seeing today is that Norwegian institutions are raging down on the ranking, and that's because the consequences of rest cuts and cuts in basic appropriations are now starting to work. Within the environment, we need to rethink, create projects and build the environmental solutions we need for the future. The environmental challenges are huge, but it's not about making our lives worse, it's about making our lives better. There are good collective solutions in cities, ambitious construction of trains, tax deductions, for example: in the case of environmental measures in private households, so that it is not only those with good advice who can afford to be environmentally friendly – as the Left proposes here today – and create a business that has both a tax policy and social rights that enable jobs and innovation to continue to be created in the future. And we need to renew our welfare state. We are proposing today to introduce a minimum standard of social assistance, but also to focus on those who actually need it the most in our welfare state, such as the children who today experience a child protection that does not have the resources to see them, and who are organized away in a bureaucracy that makes them disappear. I think we need a new kind of solidarity. We need solidarity that is not just about conservatively holding on to what we have, but about being willing to turn each stone to create something new – a new kind of solidarity that is about when Europe is struggling, when European farmers are struggling to keep their lives together, is not the answer we come with, raising customs duties on food. What kind of solidarity is that? When we see that we are getting an increasingly international labour market where people are moving across borders, where Norwegian welfare depends on having good access to labour from other countries as well, the big debate here on how to make it go easy, how to make sure that there are equal social rights or that it should be such that those who work in Norway pay taxes and contribute in Norway – no, then the big debate on how to manage to fuck social benefits away from those who contribute to building well-being in Norway. That's what I mean by a new kind of solidarity, or when we experience – as we read in the Daily Newspaper for a while back – that a little girl born in Norway, with a mother from Tanzania, is expelled from Norway at the age of eleven months. We have stories about fathers being expelled with children in just a few months, while mother is a Norwegian citizen. Is that solidarity? No, I think we should have a new kind of solidarity that is actually about building the welfare state around the individuals, and around the new challenges we are facing. We need to renew the public sector. The Labour Party representative today had the world’s strangest opinion, namely that the Left has opposed the use of ICT in public sector renewal. The nicest thing I can say about it is that it's pretty historyless and wrong. We have been responsible for large ICT bets both within Nav and within hospitals. We believe that new technology can help revolutionize the public sector, but then one has to be willing to invest to make those grips. We need to be willing to think again to renew the public sector in order for the public sector to survive in the future. Then we don't need a conservative government that is just concerned about keeping everything just as it is today and building more bureaucracy and making things more inefficient. If we're going to be able to renew this welfare state, we need to be willing to think new, be willing to put in new initiatives in relation to new technology, but also be willing to cut red tape to focus on the things you're going to do. In fact, the left will be involved in creating this welfare state, be involved in defining the new solidarity that is about not creating bureaucracy, but about renewing, which is about focusing on the things we are actually going to live on in the future through knowledge and research, focusing on the good environmental solutions, so that we are clear when Europe is ready again – and so that when Europe calls for new energy solutions, we must have developed them so that we can sell them and create Norwegian well-being based on Norwegian ideas, Norwegian research and new knowledge. I think that has been the challenge for a new bourgeois government. I think that's a new government that actually gets colored green and actually manages to create the future challenges we're facing. Sitting in government isn't just about managing everyday life, it's also about managing futures. It's about seeing that we're going to have some big promises in common because we're going to be fine in the future. Since its founding almost 130 years ago, the Left has been completely in the forefront of investing in knowledge at the time when all the reasoning spoke against it. When Johannes Steen introduced the Norwegian National School, which said that all children should learn to read and write, in a working day where most people did not meet a paper and a pencil ever in their professional life, it was very radical, but it provided the basis for well-being. It was very courageous decisions that were made, but it provided the basis for well-being. Today's bold decision is that we should actually invest in research and knowledge to create the well-being that we will live on once in the future. Then it is not possible to lean back and conservatively hold on to the welfare state just as it is today. Then we have to renew it, and then we have to bet on the kids who are going to be with us on the welfare of the future. Then I'll take up the suggestions that the left has made in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1058	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1063	I have spent a quarter of my time going through some of the last proposals that the Progress Party has promoted in this Chamber. There's a lot of interesting reading there. We have e.g. a proposal to tighten the basis for granting permanent residence permits to non-residents in Norway. We have proposals to limit the possibilities of resumption of foreign affairs, measures for lower prices of fuel, reduced VAT on electricity, reduced electricity charges, change gas power station concession policy, do not grant residence and work permits to imams associated with totalitarian Islamic regimes, and one from Per-Willy Amundsen and Siv Jensen not to allow the use of burka, niqab or other lucky garments in the public space. It's a shame I can't read more, but I'm simply wondering, what does the Left Leader think of these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1070	Some of these proposals I am against, as much as I am against much of the asylum policy that the Workers' Party stands for, as much as I think it is important indeed to fight to get a different majority in terms of asylum and refugee policy, in this Chamber, as much as I remember that the last time we were in government with the Right and the Christian People's Party, we managed to get quite a lot together with SV – not so much together with the Workers' Party – in that particular field. I believe that the reason why the asylum and refugee field has not been a major debate lately in this Chamber is that the Labour Party and the Advance Party are very united and have agreed on a very large number of fronts. I think that maybe that's the majority that should be broken, we're going to be able to make some changes in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1077	Now it is known to most people that these are proposals that the Left has voted against or expressed itself against – a few of them have not yet been dealt with. But in view of the fact that the Left has now become a guarantor of the Progress Party in government if there is a new majority, I believe that it is interesting for the voters to know something about the Left's priorities in negotiations with the other citizens. These are proposals that the Progress Party has promoted in this Chamber, and they must be important to the Progress Party. With all due respect, you might have to assume that the Left doesn't get big enough to win absolutely all the battles. So I'd like to hear the representative Skei Grande say some things about which of the proposals I just referred to, which she can join in discussing with the Progress Party. Which of these proposals can the Left Party live with?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1083	It's possible it's coming as a big surprise to Marianne Marthinsen, but I have to tell you that the Left actually goes to elections on Left's policy. That's why we're going to elections. We're going to make choices on our program, and that's what we're asking for from the voters for. I'm not going to negotiate with Marianne Marthinsen about this, but I've been negotiating with Marianne Marthinsen about the climate and the environment. My great discovery then was that getting the government to slide into the climate was quite difficult – it was extremely difficult to reconcile. I saw that I got incredibly much further into the climate with the Right, yes, in many areas also further with the Advance Party, than I did with the Government. It was a little alarm clock for us. It was an alarm for us to see that we actually managed on the civil side to agree very much on the climate that the government opposed. There is a good reason to change the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1090	I'm following up where Marthinsen left off. Last year’s debate on the throne shows that the Left’s sister party in Denmark, Radical Left, in the government platform with the red-greens, has ‘get to giants gripped within the climate’ and ‘large gripped within the family policy on asylum’. She points out that she rejects cooperation with the red-greens in Norway because they are brake blocks in these areas, and I ask: Unlike the Right and Advance Party? I also find that the left-wing leader believes that it is naive to believe that equality will go its way without quota and state regulation, and that if the men are to have a chance, they must have their own father's quota. In all these areas, as far as I can see, the left much closer to the red-greens than to the right, as well as much of what I heard that lay in «new solidarity». I can refer to the proposal for a ban on beggars and the proposal of the Advance Party to ban Muslim clothing. Many with me find it paradoxical with this starting point that the Left clearly says that they want to cooperate with the right side. Does the representative, Skei Grande, think that she is getting an impact on these issues in collaboration with the right-hand side?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1097	The Labour Party in Denmark is quite different from the Labour Party in Norway. What Radical Left has been given, for example: on climate in Denmark, we see that we could have done with the Right here, but that does not mean SV has a chance to do with the Workers' Party. What we're doing, for example. when it comes to quotaing, when we were in government, we got together with the Right Quotation in business. The Workers' Party has not been able to do this when they have been in government. We've seen that we're getting radical action in these areas by cooperating on the civil side, and I think we're going to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1102	I'm glad to know some left-wing people. Although there are different views within the Left, as in the other party, they have in common that they are busy with culture, they want a very liberal immigration policy, they are passionately concerned with climate – which we share, the Centre Party and the Left – and the administrator's idea and to hand over the Earth to the next generation in at least as good a condition as what we ourselves took over it. Then the Left Leader says that the Left goes to the Left's choice. But it points out that the way to get through these areas is in collaboration with the Progress Party, the Progress Party, which is the opposite of the Left in very many of these key questions. We got the impression from earlier today that there is a SMS dialogue between the Progress Party Leader and the Left Leader. Now I'm going to test how well they know each other: Does Step Skei Grande know for sure that the Progress Party is willing to put aside its primary position when it comes to immigration policy, climate policy and cultural policy, in order to meet the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1109	The left goes to the election that we want a government with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. That's where I think we're getting a lot of insight into our policy, and we've shown that in the past. I also know a lot of center party people. I grew up in a municipality where the Central Party had 11 out of 21 municipal government representatives. The fact that the centre party I grew up with, would be in government with SV, is for me so distant and so strange – it shows that at national level you can work together on many different fronts. I believe that we are going to have an impact on our climate policy – the climate agreement showed that we have come a long way on the civil side. We are also going to have too much impact on the other policies that Sande referred to. I know that getting into an ambitious climate policy requires that you have someone who actually realizes that you need to have a renewal in a lot of fields in society. That innovation stands for these batches. We have promoted thousands of proposals in recent years. The government parties have voted against everyone. Do we think we're going to get through with them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1120	Last left in government, there was fine little traffic, sail if they had the Minister of Transport. A competitive Gjøvik track, and one resigned about 1000 employees at the Railway Station. Now the left is going to be more green and more hot, we've heard. The redundancy at the Railway Agency, i.e. the bureaucracy, took place despite warnings that it would be difficult to carry out good competitions and contracts without enhancing the competence of the contract. It was warned that the downsizing should not compromise operational safety and the supply market was not developed on the rail technical side. The crew scale cost 142 million. kr. We haven't heard much of the gain. In 2005, such a critical level was reached as a result of which the downsizing had to stop. Since the Left now has such ambitious goals for rail development as we have heard today, it is interesting to know whether the Left now believes that the supply market and contract competence have become so good that it is unproblematic to continue the reorganisation and outsourcing of the railway network, as the Left continues to aim in its 2010 district policy programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1127	We are proud of what we did in the Ministry of Transport. We got a bet when it came to public transport in the big cities, while we now experience having a government that directly counters the big cities to get good collective solutions. We were in charge of a major conversion at the Railway Station, and let me just say that the conversion processes we started were important and necessary. The only thing I'm sorry for is that we didn't come anymore. There would have been even greater changes in this field to be able to get good solutions. The railway system's conditions in the last few years have not exactly been explained by the fact that the left came too far – we came too short. Nor would I say that putting the Gjøvik track out for competition was a bad grip. It's actually a grip we're quite proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1134	I notice that the representative Skei Grande is not so eager to comment on proposals from the Progress Party, but I will give her a new chance. In the Financial Committee, there is now a proposal from the Progress Party which is called 'a new anchor for economic policy', which is about the rule of action, which we have heard from the leader of the Progress Party today. It is not a shock that the Labour Party is opposed to this proposal, but I am interested to know what the Left believes about this proposal, and how far the Left is willing to change the rule of action by possible cooperation with the Progress Party in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1139	I'm very pleased with that question. Left does not want to change the policy of action. But today's replication shows that the right-hand side and the left-hand side really have a completely similar view of taxes, how you use tax systems and the public sector, and how you use the public purses. For us in the Left, it's not the level that's important, but how you use it, how you set it up, if you can create more jobs, if you can fight poverty. That's what kind of grip you take and what kind of device you have within the tax system, which is important. The working party is talking like this is just about plus or minus. No, it's about the device, and it's about the grips you're taking, and it shows that the tax system can actually actively use you to create more jobs. You can actively use the tax system to combat poverty, and the Left always does so in its alternative budgets. For us, it's not about whether you just have a plus or a minus of one billion or two billion. It's about the device, and it's a center position and not an outer edge position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1146	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1149	The first part of this debate has confirmed the clarifications that Norwegian policy now sees: a clear red-green alternative on one side and an overall opposition to this government. It's okay, it's a good clarification, and it indicates that at the next elections, people will have a basic choice of value and a guiding choice. The question is not whether the country is perfect. Is anyone saying that? Of course it isn't. The question is not whether the government or the Workers' Party has not done the wrong thing. Of course we do. But as my distinguished colleague Martin Kolberg used to say, in the Workers' Party we left the idea that society had been built once and for all in 1927. Of course, not everything is perfect, even after Jens Stoltenberg has been Prime Minister for eight years in the wonderful country of Norway. But we can't escape the fact that the results speak for themselves. I didn't intend to spend so much time on this, but I have to say that I get relatively scared when the Right Leader spends a good part of his speaking time talking about the tax cuts that the right parties are now proposing – on the right at approx. 25 billion, a little bit depending on how you're raining, and the progress of 100 billion. It is said that there is almost a small amount of money in the big context and that there is almost nothing to say if you choose that or that, because the action space has increased so strongly, they say. First of all, the numbers that the Right Leader uses are wrong. Even with the Right talking about new ideas and better solutions, you don't get away from the rise in prices in society. You have to take account of that. Then the real space for action of today's government – measured in these years the governments of Stoltenberg have ruled – is approx. 140 B.C.E. kr. So I guess the right-wing parties also believe that we should cover the increased expenses of the people's fear. In the same period they have increased by approx. 50 B.C.E. kr. So we're down to under 100 billion. And then the big question is, don't the right parties think it's relevant to ask if there's a relationship between using e.g. Right, with 25 pst., a quarter, of the real space of action on the tax haven – mostly for those who have the most from before – and the arrangement of the Progress Party, where the entire space of action has joined the dragonfly in the spirit of tax cuts before thinking about investing in new and better welfare. If this is not a fundamental distinction in Norwegian policy, where people can stand on one side or the other and say that in my country it is most important that we bet on the common tasks of society, joint investment and no more private wealth for each one of us, then I don't understand anything. That's one very basic thing. The second option will be about, is safe economic governance or more home-recognized alternatives or economic experiments. I would like to discuss both the content of the rule of action and other things, but that is not the case. The thing is, it's important that you have a rule and that a majority in the Stortinget over a long time has to stand by it. It has given confidence to everyone who sits on the outside of this country – and in our country – and looks into the Norwegian potion: What do they intend to do with all this money? Well, they actually have a plan, they have a rule. It has created confidence, and it has created the basis for governance in economic policy. So here the distinctions are still completely fundamental between all of today's government parties, but also far into the alternative, but the problem is that, for example. On the right, the Progress Party is on the verge of economic policy, and then it becomes demanding. Here it's a basic direction option. Are we going to be on the course that the government has been following for seven years: Safe economic governance and expectations that it trusts the system you have created? Or are we going to try something new because it's so exciting in a rich country to do it? I don't think so. This is a clear choice of value and direction. Are we going to continue to develop active ownership and own part of the important national enterprises and interests together, or are we going to sell? We mean the first. The right-wing parties believe that we should sell – sell out on a scale that Norway has never seen before. We're talking about up to 70 billion. kr in government sales. There is no such type of capital in the country. I know who's going to buy it. There are non-residents and others with large interests who want to enter these companies that generate large incomes and are important for national ownership. It's also a very important distinction. So to those who are now trying to pretend that this debate doesn't count, that there's almost a little bit of hip that luck now who you choose, I'd say that's not true. I am absolutely sure that during the next year we will get this out in a thorough way, and I am pleased that this may be the starting point for such an important direction and value choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1170	It's interesting to listen to the calculations of the head of the finance committee. Because while it's a doubtful fact that nominally the incomes of the state have increased by 300 billion. kr more in 2012 than in 2005, so he's realigning it down until it's barely 100 billion. Finally, kr. While when the Right proposes But it happens in the same year, and then it's actually 20 pst. and not 25 pst. The kind of tricking with figures is the Workers' Party, in order to present itself as responsible for economic policy. We know that there have been tens of billions of oil crowns on the outside of the rule of action to build windmills and oil platforms and all sorts of things, but when we in the Progress Party want to build more roads, it creates a lot of inflation. And then I ask, how can it be that when you pump up oil, it's inflation-free, but if you use oil to add asphalt, it's all of a sudden inflation-driven? Where does that logic come into place in economic theory?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1175	I do not know what is the reason why the representative Solvik-Olsen must have explained this repeatedly. But it's not something I've invented, it's not something the Workers' Party has invented, it's not something the government has invented, but it's most professional environments in Norway. Foreigners also come to Norway to study how Norway has set up this amazing wealth. Then we get boasts, like parity Right – with which Solvik-Olsen will now cooperate – when we now stand by this rule that has served Norway well for ten years. It is not true that oil investments and other large investments in Norway are not taken into account in the use of oil money in Norway. Of course it will. The rule of action facilitates the gradual, sound phasing-in of oil money, but it is adjusted to take account of what is happening, in the same way that last year investments in mainland Norway were made that were much higher than oil investments. They were almost 500 billion. kr. Shall we also put them into the rule of action, Solvik-Olsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1180	The reason why we ask the question is that we do not get answers that are related. We have asked the Minister of Finance this question: How much would the use of oil money in the state budget have to be adjusted if the oil investments on the Norwegian base had been adjusted by 50 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? The answer we get is we don't get a number. Now the SSB has just announced, after the budgetary process was over in the government, that next year the oil investments will be 10 billion. kr higher than we thought. So I have to ask, how much does it have to be cut in the use of oil money in the state budget in order for the level of activity to be at the level envisaged when planning the use of oil money initially? Then my question to the representative Micaelsen is, if he believes he has clarity about what the Minister of Finance is unable to answer: how much is the Stortinget going to adjust the use of oil money into the state budget, when we know that the oil investments on the Norwegian base outside the rule of action are 10 billion. kr higher than what was on the basis of which the government drew up its budget on Monday? I don't think you have any answers, but you can dictate something.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1187	Should I dictate something? First of all, oil investments are not part of the state budget, just as I and the representative Solvik-Olsen, or the rest of Norwegian business in mainland Norway, are not part of the rule of action. That's why I think it's right to stick to what we've agreed on, and then you can discuss whether there are some things that should have been done differently. That's not the point. The point is that Solvik-Olsen and the rest of the Progress Party should be a little more honest about why they are attacking the rule of action. It's not to spend less oil money, or because you want to put oil investments on the state budget. No, it is a hidden desire to spend more oil money, which I believe would put Norwegian jobs in play, which is a gambling game that I do not want to be on, and which I also record that the Right is very opposed. Therefore, the representative should spend more time convincing Jan Tore Sanner and Erna Solberg, than hacking into the government's economic policy, which has very good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1194	The right has considerably more new ideas and better solutions to create safe jobs than government. Since the government joined in 2005, it has been possible to double the working capital wealth tax – those who actually create the most businesses are those who pay the most taxes on wealth. We also know today that 21,000 enterprises in Norway pay more in wealth taxes than they have in profits. This is a peculiar job tax in Norway that affects enterprises in growth, enterprises in start-up, enterprises in development, and it inhibits innovation because it becomes a wealth tax on developing the enterprise. Does the Workers' Party believe that it is easier for businesses to secure precisely such jobs, when they now pay more taxes on wealth than they earn?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1201	When Right, and Arve Kambe in this case, use examples of tripled the tax on what he calls working capital, I'll explain very briefly what that means: Well, that means, the red-green government has removed a number of the discounts that those who own the most in Norwegian business, and therefore the richest people in Norway had with the Right in the government offices. They don't pay anymore, but they pay the same as everyone else pays in taxes on wealth. Is the wealth tax perfect? Of course it isn't. I am the first to admit that it has both clear strengths and clear weaknesses. But I don't want to be involved in black-painting the situation for Norwegian business managers and business owners – in a situation where we create more jobs, where there are more companies starting than ever before. Comparing tax systems is very demanding, for example, in Sweden. twice as high an employer’s fee as in Norway. I guess there is no Norwegian business that wants to replace with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1208	It seems like crowns and ears are the only language that the representative Micaels understands. That's why I want to remind him of the most important action he can take to get a better room for action, and it's getting more people to work. Not least, it will be important for those people who are being pushed out. At a time when we have more people than ever before, more and more people are being pushed out of work. At a time when unemployment is low, record numbers are on the way, and unfortunately many young people. We know that early efforts and close follow-up are some of the most important steps you can take. Nevertheless, there are over 200,000 people in this country who are on redundancy pay, and many of them are on the way. Therefore, my question to the representative Micaelsen is: Why has it been important for the government to lower the proportion of people who receive work – help to get back to work – from 40 p.m. to 40 p.m.? in 2005 to only 25 pst. Is the help they need to get back to work today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1215	I'm glad to get that kind of question that makes us talk about the most important things in life, which I think is work, the value of knowing that you matter, getting involved – but also the message I want to tip is from a total accumulation: you know, it actually means something that you contribute, and we expect you to contribute with what you can. I just have to say that one of the major challenges, or paradoxes, we are experiencing in Norway, is precisely what the representative describes, that despite the fact that we have higher and higher employment, more and more who participate, much of it comes from abroad in the form of labour immigration. It makes it more demanding to include people who are a little bit ill, or have a little bit of pain, and who cannot participate in 100 pst. Is this something we should solve? Yes, but I don't know if I have the answer over the table on how to solve it. What I know is that we now have record high employment and low unemployment. Along with a sudden action that the government and the Storing have adopted, I think there should be more room in the future to include more than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1224	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1227	Much of this debate has been heard before – in chronological debates, budgetary debates, etc. Once again, the debate is marked by the fact that the Workers' Party is trying to rewrite history, that the Workers' Party in panic is trying to hide its policy by hacking at parties that have not been in position. It was a little fun listening to the representative Micaelsen in the change of line. He was a little dismayed that someone was hacking into the Workers' Party. Then he spent five minutes from the pulpit to hack into the Right and Advance Party. What the Mica is really doing is panicking about trying to draw a difference: when the Workers' Party invests, the inflation ghost doesn't exist, but when the Progress Party wants to invest in sensible infrastructure, roads, railways, information technology, the inflation ghost comes right away. It creates insecurity, not security. I have to say it is a serious rewriting of history by the representative Jette F. Christensen, who even allows himself to say that the Workers' Party is in a way responsible, or has the honour, for the pediatric conciliation. The barngarde agreement came into place thanks to the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party, thanks to Øystein Djupedal and Siv Jensen. The working party was opposed at that time. Then we get the representative Marthinsen who believes that the Progress Party should cut in welfare. The rest of the debate is about the fact that the Progress Party will spend too much money on welfare. Yes, it's about drawing up some differences. I hear that much of the debate is about security, freedom and action. Yeah, that's exactly what this is about. The Progress Party believes that building down the Home Office will create insecurity when you build up the Civil Protection Agency when you put the police reserve on hold when you down the police. While this government has been in power, the police coverage has been reduced from 1.8 per thousand inhabitants to 1.45 per thousand inhabitants. It creates insecurity. The decline of infrastructure and communications under this government creates insecurity, not security. The lack of a reduced framework, including in the area of preparedness and security, creates insecurity, not security. That this government has ensured that 280 000 people are in hospital queues, creating insecurity, and that it creates less freedom. That this government has done so that older people have to wait, create insecurity, not security. The fact that drug users have lost their offers because this government is obsessed with ideology and should not use the capacities and qualities of the private sector creates insecurity, not security. It creates less freedom that this government has made sure that the housing situation in this country is so serious that people have to live in tents. It creates insecurity, not security. The policy of the Progress Party will reverse this trend because we are concerned with real security, real freedom and real care. It's about a party that wants to get in position to show once and for all that there is political will, that there is a party in this country that wants to show its power of action and not just operate and manage and use the Storting as a dispatch office. It creates insecurity when, instead of putting criminals on the cell, they get out with a 700-year penalty discount.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1245	It's going to be line change. Then the first representative is Eva Kristin Hansen, who hasn't signed up in the first place. But now she's drawn, at least, by raising her hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1250	Thank you. It's kind of demanding with new technology. At first I just want to tell the representative Sandberg that I think he took up a lot of good things in his post. He's always a good rhetorical guy, and so was he today. I agree with the Sandberg representative in many of the areas he raised: Homecare is important, hospitals are important, elderly people are important, and police are important. There are many areas he's talking about, which I think are very important. Since he talked so much about a lot of different things, I assume that the Progress Party and Sandberg want to spend money in these areas, obviously, and that they also want to bet on it both in alternative budgets and if they – I was going to say God forbid – they would be in government. But if we look at the Spring Party's tax laws and tax cuts, which are about 100 billion. kr now, it is interesting to hear where there is the Progress Party will prioritize down matters. Because now he's talking about a lot of nice, important things. Where is the Advance Party going to insert the bumps and cuts? That's the one question. The second question that I also think is interesting is that the right has gone to about 25 billion. kr in tax cuts. It's a 100-billion-billion-dollar advance. kr. Where does Sandberg think that level will be put in any cooperation, and how far is Sandberg willing to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1263	I think it is a bit alarming that the representative wants an answer to these hundreds of billions, because it sounded like he had been studying this for several years – so maybe the Workers' Party knew that answer from earlier. Now I am so lucky to be the leader of the programme committee in the Progress Party. The party of progress has so far determined that at least two taxes and taxes are to be removed in four years. It is the property tax, and it is the inheritance tax, which is directly unsolvable and an assault on those who have saved and been modest in their lives, while those who have wasted all the money get away. It creates fewer jobs and punishes those who have created jobs and wealth, etc. It's going to go away. But the Progress Party is not in it. In the Progress Party we take several rounds of programme work. There are several taxes and taxes – in particular taxes – introduced by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, which the Progress Party wants to reverse. There is no doubt about it, because it also creates less freedom. Nor does it ensure that the Workers' Party will pay taxes and taxes to the Norwegian people and businesses. It creates less freedom and less room for action. But that's what's wanted from this red-green government: to control the people from cradle to grave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1272	Indeed, at least in this Chamber, the party of progress is not shy about making proposals for tax cuts or welfare cuts. Maybe there's something that confuses us a little bit. Is it the taxes to be cut, or is it the welfare to be cut? It kind of doesn't seem to be a consistent answer to this. The sad thing about Sandberg and the Progress Party is that all the fun things they've been busy about, after all, have happened under this government: more money for kindergarten, more money for the road, more money for the police – while their former comrades wouldn't prioritize this to the same extent as we would. What I hope Sandberg understands is that we're trying to get to the bottom of this, is that the expenses have to match the income. They're constantly trying to explain this to people on the Lucerne trap on TV, so we have to at least expect that the Progress Party and Sandberg can also explain this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1279	Firstly, the sitting government has not given any more money. This government has forced Norwegian drivers to pay more to use their car through bomb charges, and other restrictions on cars. So the Labour Party is trying to make it look like they're building roads – I registered that the new Minister of Transport was now in the North Trøndelag and boasted that this government is going to spend 23 billion. kr en route in Nord-Trøndelag. And then it turns out in retrospect that no, it wasn't the government that was going to spend money – it was supposed to be tolls, too. So there the Minister of Transport had to withdraw the promises. The Progress Party wants to invest on the road, on the railways and on the infrastructure because we believe that there are investments that will give us income in retrospect, contrary to what the Workers' Party believes. This is probably also wrong in relation to the idea of economic policy, but the Progress Party believes it. Infrastructure is going to be $2 back. And then it's directly wrong -- I can't see anywhere that the Progress Party wants to cut in welfare. We get extensive criticism that we want to spend too much money on well-being. We want to remove the hospital cows that the Workers' Party has built up. We want to remove all the queues that this government has built up, both on welfare and in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1288	Per Sandberg accuses the government and the Workers' Party of falsifying history. Now Sandberg is running history forgery on the most serious of his own. At least the Progress Party agreed with the government parties that we should spend 2.2 billion. kr more on the road and traverse every year, and 22 br. kr during the ten-year period. During this magnification period, the government has raised the promises further, so that we would spend 10 billion dollars. kr on the road and track, which I also realized that the Progress Party has previously said has been a solid commitment. Now Sandberg has to decide soon – does this government bet on the way, or does it not? And if you're going to be sober considering who's been falsifying history, at least you have to be able to relate to the truth in the hall as well. I hope the representative can clarify what he meant by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1297	I was the head of the transport committee in the last period, and I know very well the ambitions of the Progress Party in building infrastructure. This government has not been close to it either – they are far from the level of ambition of the Advance Party. The level of ambition of this government, both during this period and in the previous period, was to leave even more of the financing of the infrastructure to the individual user through tolls and other types of restrictions on the driving lists. Now the drivers also have to pay for any other type of infrastructure. That's what I mean by that. This government is not building any more of the state’s resources today than was done seven to eight years ago. You've left more to the driver in that way. Then, too, if I'm allowed to say that, you have to see the whole of the Progress Party's policy. Because it's also about some structures and systems. This government appears as museum guardians in all sorts of areas. It's billions to pick up on modernizing this country, building this country in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1304	Let me first say, it is fortunately not right for the representative Sandberg to say that this government does not invest in the way. There has been a significant investment in the years this government has been in place, and it should cheer up the Progress Party instead of criticizing it. So to the point, it's like many of the values that the Progress Party is eager to distribute come from our rich natural resources. In the processing of natural resources, a more or less thread passes through the history of the Progress Party. Not only did one try to sell out the Statfjord field early in the 1970s, which would lead to much less money to distribute today, but also when it comes to the hydropower with which I confronted the party leader, would like a system that opens up for the liberalisation and sale of the large Norwegian hydroelectric power stations. The representative Jensen said that as long as the water runs into the rivers, there is no problem. But we know that it's the values that these power plants create, that are interesting, that are currently being used for important well-being. So the question to Sandberg is: is the party of progress to continue with this humiliating way of dealing with natural resources if they were to achieve government power?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1313	I should also have liked to have taken a history description of the Center Party, possibly all the way back to the Bond Party – because that is what the representative here is trying to do. But I won't. I'll try to answer the questions. And then I'm going to answer one thing: yes, the government has made a significant effort on the way. But the significant effort has been to charge the drivers. There has been a huge historical effort on tolls and restrictions. That's what this government has had. And then there's even more need out there to build even more way. Then I just show you the answer from the parliamentary leader, Siv Jensen. It's not about moving any footfalls out of the country. The Progress Party will be involved in securing Norwegian ownership, but we will expand more of Norwegian hydropower. That's what this is all about. There will also be more return to local communities, more ownership of local communities, compared to what is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1320	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1323	Norway has a good health service for many. At the same time, many of those who need the most help do not get what they need. This is serious. There are over 300,000 people who have now taken out private health insurance and more and more people pay directly for private health care. This is a sign of a weakening of trust in the Norwegian model. The class division of the Norwegian health care system has rooted in the red-green watch. At the beginning of 2012, there were over 280 000 people in health queues. There are 80,000 more than when the government took over. Last right was in government, we reduced health cows by 70,000 patients in four years. Drug addicts and mentally ill people do not receive sufficient help. The health system saves many lives, but often fails when there is a need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation to get life back. Cancer patients experience that it takes too long to be diagnosed and lacks access to new treatments. Many people wait a long time for simple intervention, even if there is free private capacity. Too many people are injured and die as a result of defects and deficiencies in the healthcare system. New ideas and better solutions are needed to improve patient provision. The main idea is the idea of diversity as a powerful force for change. A little while ago, a desperate grandmother called me from South Africa. Her granddaughter is 15, and his parents and doctor believe that he has Asberger’s syndrome. This is a condition for which you can get good help, but it requires a diagnosis. They were referred to the investigation – the waiting period was one and a half years. When you're 15 years old, you're about to start high school and you're on the threshold of adult life, and a year and a half isn't waiting -- that's actually the rest of your life. They were informed that there was a private offer in Stavanger. They could get in there immediately, but then they had to pay NOK 20 000 themselves. If we had an open healthcare system in Norway, where there was diversity, where private and ideals could say that here we have an offer, patients can get to choose us, then this family would not have had to pay to get a quick diagnosis – the public would have taken the bill. But I'm also convinced that there wouldn't have been half a year and a half waiting time in public if they knew they were at risk of losing the patient to a private or an ideal hospital. Patients need to be taken more seriously. The first letter received by the patient from the hospital must contain both the date and time of the start of treatment or investigation, and not as today, only an indication of when the next letter comes. If the local hospital is unable to meet the deadline, it shall be their responsibility to notify Helfo so that they can find free capacity – public or private – in Norway or abroad. Now the patient himself needs to find out in the health bureaucrat. Therefore, almost no patients use the rights they have under the law of the day. We propose an escalating plan for drug use and rehabilitation, the development of a general psychological service in the municipalities, the diagnosis centre for cancer and a separate health care accident commission. The most important thing is, in any case, free treatment. Free treatment option means we put the patient in front of the system. We will then receive a variety of treatment services that use innovative treatment methods, organise work in new ways, and that know that the patient can choose them away if they are not good enough. Therefore, many people have the power to change the lives of a 15-year-old who are waiting for a diagnosis and help for Asberger's syndrome, but it also has the power to change the public health system. This government has been committed to increasing appropriations, but it has also delivered increased health cows. The question is: what will it be able to deliver in the next four years that it has not completed in the first eight years — at a time when health cows have increased by 80,000 patients? This election is about whether we're going to have twelve years with still red-green government, or whether we're going to get a new government with new ideas and better solutions that put the patient ahead of the system. The Labour Party parliamentary leader said in his speech today that free treatment choices could destroy the health system. Yes, if you start by defending the system, you should be against free treatment because free treatment puts the patient in the center, in front of the system. It will provide many faster and better treatment, but it will also develop the public health system. It'll be a better health care system, because the patient comes to the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1355	The right has found a new word, the word being "implementation". The reason they've invented that word, they almost have to explain it themselves, but I think there's reason to point out that I don't fully understand what they're aiming for when it comes to government. Is that the reorganization of the Defense? Is that the deformity reform? Is that the pension reform? Is that the digitisation of the public sector? Is that Nav? Many of these are major and major changes in the public sector to structures and other things. Or is it the interaction reform, or the specialisation in the hospital system – yes, perhaps first and foremost the process that is taking place here in Oslo? As soon as it starts to get hurt and hard, the right runs from. The largest and perhaps most important reorganization process in the hospital system as of today is taking place here in Oslo. It's going to wait on the right. What is it in this word – except to send the bill to the public and release to more people in the hospital service – that the Right points to?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1362	Implementation is about not only taking responsibility for decisions in the Grand Duchy or in the government, but actually following up on the proper implementation of the decisions. Right supported the changes that have occurred in the capital process, both the merger with Oslo University Hospital and the transfer of patients to Aarhus. But what was an important premise for us was that this was going to happen in a way that was right for the patients. Unlike the government, the Right listened throughout the process to patients, to those who work in hospitals, to those who are going to accompany the hospitals, to the patients' representatives, and heard their signals as the process was about to go off the rails. The government had only one view of this: it listened to the health bureaucrats' beauty of the situation, with the result that Ahus was driven at too high a risk in the early months of 2011, which may have had fatal consequences for more patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1369	Again, you can't come up with new words as soon as it gets hurt and difficult, as it often becomes in large conversion processes. Conversion is demanding, but it is possible and important to do so. Then you can't just run from there and say that this we won't be on anymore, and at the same time criticise the same to take the tough noises when it starts to drag on. It doesn't hold the goal, so I suggest that Bent Höie and the rest of the Right add the side – at least when they're going to criticize the government. I want to raise a little, second point: I heard Bent Höie present the new draft of the party program, where he now says that it will be no more than 25 billion. kr in tax cuts over the next few years, if the Right wins the election. Now I've summed this up, and I've come to believe that if you combine the biggest tax cuts in the Right Programme with those they've proposed here in the Stortinget in the last year, then already 25 billion is. kr used up. Is it so that we can now expect that every time there are new tax proposals from the Right, they will replace old proposals, or are they the proposals that I have now submitted to approx. 25 B.C.E. kr, applicable, if the Right wins the choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1376	I have the incredibly good job of directing the work on the Right Program, because it is the program that is going to launch the new ideas and the better solutions, which will be the main foundation of the government that will govern after the next elections. One of the tasks we do then is to review what taxes and taxes we think should be changed, reduced or removed in the next period. Our starting point is that these are taxes that affect the value creation of Norway, which affects Norwegian ownership, which affects local business owners who sit and eat in the same canteen as their employees, and which go extra far to keep jobs in Norway. What hit them most is the property tax and inheritance tax. In addition, the inheritance fee is bloodyly unfair in many families where one generation would like to have a house or a leisure home built, and then you have to pay large sums to the state to keep these values for the next generation. We also believe that it is unfair that people with ordinary income pay top taxes, and that people with low income pay too high taxes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1385	The President will give the Micaels a third line; there's room for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1388	I have registered, there has been some summation here in the hall, that there are some who claim that the Workers' Party does not answer the questions they are asked in reply to. I'm sorry, but Bent Höie, Right Vice President, didn't answer what I asked for. That's right, all that the representative said, but when I add this, the proposals that Bent Höie has now made, approx. 25 B.C.E. kr. The question is, are these proposals the ones that now apply? Is it so that every time there are new tax proposals, which I sometimes have the impression of coming, especially when it's summer and vacation and quiet times, they're going to replace other tax proposals from the Right? Or it's going to be the way I think it's going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, that they're going to be, kr is a far too low estimate, especially when working with the Progress Party – in the windiest and most extreme government ever held by Norway – that has fully promised itself in fiscal policy and promised tax cuts of nearly 100 billion. Do you really want to delete this What's the fasit here, Bent Höie?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1395	I am pleased that the representative Micaelsen shares the same calculation as I do, namely that the tax proposals proposed by the Right Programme Committee for the Right National Meeting amount to about 25 billion. kr, the same thing that the Right implemented in tax cuts last time we were in government. So it remains to be seen in May next year whether these are the tax proposals that the Right National Assembly adopts, but if so, that's what the Right goes to elections next time and is going to be implemented in government. So the representative Micasen can feel absolutely safe about that. We carried out similar tax reductions the last time we were in government. At the same time, we reduced the health cows by 70,000 patients, we reduced the waiting time from 243 days to 83 days in four years, we had a formidable commitment to research and development, we invested significantly in welfare by being the first government to lift the rubrics in Norway away from the social law and into the patient law and grant them patient rights in the same line with other patients. It is fully possible to implement the type of tax relief and, at the same time, to focus on well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1402	A good health service is essential for people's security, and for the Center Party and the Government, that means, among other things. equal opportunities regardless of whether or not you participate in the labour market. Now we have the representative Höie who is starting to talk about the class division that has taken root under this government – as if the Right is against a class division! It is the gift of fraternity from the Right, which is the lot that wants to facilitate more tax-subsidized health insurance for employers, thereby weakening the equivalent treatment regardless of financial ability. The game Right comes with new ideas, better solutions, diversity. This is euphoria, nothing else. The red-green government is paying attention to the treatment of public and non-profit organisations in the health service, and I expect the new health minister to take up the ideal organisations and give them a greater place in this work in the year that we have left. The right line is the market for private hospitals owned by the large health group, which is a threat to the safety of health services in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1411	I note that the representative Lundteigen hopes that the new Minister of Health will represent a new health policy. I don't think so. I think the new Minister of Health is going to represent exactly the same health policy as the four previous Health Ministers from this government. What has happened to the ideal health actors under this government is that they disappear at record speed. Continuing the speed ahead, with the removal of non-profit actors in the field of health, and getting this government renewed trust, which hopefully never happens, so over the course of these twelve years, we're probably not going to have any more ideal actors in the field of health. The difference between the Right and the current government in terms of health is that within our system everyone will be able to choose to use the private solutions in health care, but it is the public that pays. The consequences of this government’s policy, resistance and private allergy have led to the most classed healthcare system we have had in recent times in Norway. 300000 have health insurance. Never before have so many paid out of their own pocket for vital health care such as cancer diagnosis and cancer treatment in Norway. I never thought it was going to happen in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1418	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is Councillor Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. The President will congratulate you, both with a new name and with the marriage!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1424	Thank you very much, President! On 16 August this year, 34 miners were shot and killed because they strike for better pay terms. The massacre of strike workers at the Marikana mines in South Africa shows how bad it can be in societies with social and economic inequalities. The poorest 40 pst. the population only holds 6 pst. of the total revenue in South Africa. South Africa has been the economic locomotive in Africa, and in the mining industry there are great values. This industry represents a total of 60 pst. export income of South Africa. The British owned the Lonmin mine, where they killed striking work, extract platinum and gold. While in Norway we have our oil, we can leave it as a symbol that there are large values in natural resources also in countries with many poor. There is no poverty in South Africa because of lack of wealth, but because of lack of fair distribution, and that is the case in most countries where there are many poor. Over the last 50 years, the world's population has more than doubled. In the same period, the world economy has more than fivefold. Still, it's still more than 1 billion. people living in deep poverty, i.e. they have to cope with less than DKK 7-8 a day. Many developing countries have experienced strong economic growth in the last 10–15 years, and the growth has been such that the World Bank has upgraded 23 countries from low-income to middle-income only in the last 10 years. Before, poor people lived in poor countries, now they live in 70 pst. of the world's lye poor in middle-income countries, i.e. a country that also has great wealth. In other words, global growth has not been a wave that has lifted all boats. Economic growth does not end poverty on its own. The killings of strike workers in South Africa should be a wake-up to all those who believe that economic growth is the whole solution in the fight against global poverty. It's naive to believe. This has convinced me why it is important to emphasise stronger redistribution and fair distribution in Norwegian development policy, and that is why the government of the throne announced more Robin Hood policy in the development policy of the year to come. Fairness is a lot about distribution. It's almost apolitical and up-to-date that we're against poverty, but fair distribution is about more. It's about making sure that the income created in a society benefits everyone. It's about creating to share, and it's about sharing to create further. In fact, countries with good distribution are also the countries where growth remains over time. Here we have been in the forefront of Norwegian development policy. For several years we have been busy using public aid to influence the large flows of money in the world. It's right to make sure that that's what happens. We have worked internationally to prevent illegal capital flows from developing countries as a result of tax evasion and other criminal activities. We've backed up the country's construction of tax systems, we've backed up that country to get a good natural resource management where the money benefits the people and does not go directly to transfers to rich companies or to an elite in the country. The Marikana mine workers can tell about a South African society characterised by increasing poverty and unemployment, a working life characterised by recruitment agencies, temporary contracts and inappropriate working conditions. They tell about laborers with poor pay and working conditions, and have sub-directors who earn 152 times more than themselves. Decent work with respect for fundamental rights and decent wage growth, job-driven growth, can be promoted by good trade unions, and it is interesting to note that the wage growth that the workers received after the killings was 22 p.m. Fair distribution creates growth. When millions of people are lifted out of poverty, they contribute far more to economic growth than if a small elite gets stuck with the entire surplus. This is a good example of our own country, Norway. The better the distribution, the greater internal demand, the greater the activity, the more jobs and the fewer the poor. What should we do with our aid money? We can support poor countries in raising their own incomes, we can support poor countries in making policies and taking action to reach the poorest, and we can show solidarity with those organisations that work for a better distribution in their country. We have one thing perfectly clear, and that is that the right side exists, not only in Norway, but also in other countries. If we talk about fair distribution, we meet the right side, because they never talk about fair distribution, neither in Norway nor in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1457	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1460	I also want to start by congratulating you on marriage and a middle name with historical sus. We can envy you! So a little bit to what's the matter here today. In the class struggle, the Minister for Development said in an interview a few days ago that we should now use Norwegian aid to: ‘Export Norwegian vesntreside policy’. So you kind of get the impression that here's the SV policy -- now it's the left-hand policy that's going to be exported to these countries. In fact, they must be required to conduct this policy in order to receive assistance. My question to the Minister for Development is this: Is there not a new form of left imperialism that is now to be carried out against the Third World by means of Norwegian aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1473	You can say that there is one thing more recent research and more recent cooperation and discussion about development policy shows, it is that you are unable to implement a policy in a country if it is not locally anchored and you have a local ownership. I notice one thing when I'm out in the world discussing with other countries' ministers, non-governmental organisations and civil society. It is that the desire for, the belief in – the aspiration for – fair distribution is absolutely crucial. I think it's impossible to implement development policies if you don't have people on team. To cooperate more with those organisations and countries that themselves have an ambition to bring their entire population out of poverty and to create fair distribution in the country is what I believe as a development policy for the future. It's not just SV policy, but it's good red-green policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1480	I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Development. In June, the Ministry of Development presented a new strategy for agricultural development in Africa. All the good forces involved, both large agricultural co-operations and small farmers. As the Minister for Development said during the presentation: ‘The world’s rapidly growing and more prosperous population brings with it a high and increasing demand for food and other agricultural products, so that the market can be found.’ If we go back to 2010, we see that the government put a stop to imports of sheep meat from Botswana, Swaziland and Namibia because it started threatening Norwegian sheep production. So at the moment that the African countries can actually produce and export something that yields, when they do what we now spend money on and have strategies to get them to do, we're going to slam the door to one of the world's richest countries, one of the world's most potentially lucrative markets, and say that here they're at least not going to export what they've managed to produce with Norwegian support. What solidarity is this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1494	Then it is the councillor Holmås Eidsvoll – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1497	Almost, President, next time it'll be right. Then it becomes Eidsvoll Holmås, and then it becomes right. We have tried equality in my family – to say it like that – so we have tried that we both change names. But I understand that it's confusing to the outside world, and it's certainly confusing to us for a little while. To Ine M. Eriksen Soreide: I would say that solidarity is about making sure to open the borders to give priority to developing countries when they have something to export. I notice that most of what we import from food comes from EU countries. I want us from the government – and I think we will see that in the government budget presented on Monday – to facilitate the import of a larger proportion of the food that comes from developing countries. Otherwise, during this period of government, we have clearly set out to introduce zero-tariff rates and to extend the number of countries with zero-tariff rates, to facilitate lower rates of duty for several countries, through the so-called GSP scheme. It's a policy that I'm sure the government will continue to run in the years that come, and, as I said, President, she'll have to wait and see Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1504	Then the addition is given for the name explanation, and then I give the word to Kjell Ingolf Ropstad – be so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1507	I want to talk about what the Minister for Development – as far as I heard – did not mention, but that was job no. 1 for the Christian People's Party, namely education. We know that education is the key to development, and we know that aid for education benefits. There are many here who have said by mentioning the Plan's campaign that more girls should be admitted to school and that the aid budget should be increased. But even though the government from 2005 until today has given 10 billion dollars. In other words, the share of aid – which is very good – has fallen. The amount of education has also fallen. One has not even adjusted the budget or the money for education. Now the state budget is coming on Monday. I have noticed that there have been leakages there. Now you don't always have to trust them, but even if you add 75 million. NOK that I see there, one will still not get up to an equal amount of kroner as we had in 2005. Then my question is, can we repeat the success of last year, where the Christian People's Party was able to make a settlement with the government parties to move more money into education?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1520	I was going to get a Christian People's Party in advance this time and make sure to prioritize more money for education. I actually announced in an earlier oral question time that we were going to evaluate it, and we are going to do that. We're going to give priority to getting up to the level that the government itself has announced in its own messages earlier, namely, 1.6 billion. kr. It's an increase from this year. If we're going to say one thing, I think like that: we have to spend our education money in countries where there is the greatest lack of our own ability to deliver. It is in vulnerable countries, and it is the goal of providing more girls with the opportunity to receive education. That's why we're prioritizing money towards that. What we see as generally positive is that more and more young people, more and more young people, are starting school, and I believe that education for a country's own people is its own responsibility. There we see a happy development, namely that throughout sub-Saharan Africa — at least in almost all countries, except those where there is war and conflict — countries are able to spend more money on their own. I think that is sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1530	Changemaker has had a campaign that goes on the ethics of our oil fund. What kind of attitude we have towards the oil fund affects much of the policy of the Minister of Aid, plus that the Minister of Aid also manages large sums of forest management and forest protection and rainforest protection. Today, the Changemaker concluded that under this finance minister there has been a very significant deterioration in the ethics of the oil fund. Does the Minister of Assistance agree with this, and how does the Minister of Aid work affect the deterioration?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1537	I do not understand that there has been a deterioration in the work on ethics. But it is clear that the oil fund and the management of the Ethics Council are the Minister of Finance who has to answer. But let me take two points on that occasion: one of the things we're busy with is preserving the rainforest, and I think we have to work all the time to ensure that our ethical code is up and standing to make sure that what we want with aid money is also related to what we do in all sorts of other areas, whether it's trade policy, investment policy or other things. That is why, every year, in the context of the budget, we are producing a report on the coherence of the budget to the Grand Duchy, which looks at how the policy is linked. There are clear examples of the functioning of the ethical code, in that the Norwegian pension fund has withdrawn from companies that have been involved in extensive rainforest cutting in mining and other activities — for that very reason. So that's how we see that the work that we did to get an ethical code in place has actually worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1542	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1545	A tree in the Center Party's ideology is the administrator's idea – that is, the idea that we are going to hand over this planet, which we have inherited, in at least equal condition to future generations. Along with the administrator's idea, the goal of decentralisation of power and the fact that there is a short distance between those who decide and those who have to stick to the decisions, and the desire for an equivalent service provision throughout the country, is the very foundation of the Central Party's policy. These objectives are very much in line with the red-green cooperation, and they are reflected in the policy of the government. In the field of management of natural resources, there are clear ideological political differences between the parties in this room. A large part of this debate is about who is willing to spend how much money on what. But when it comes to the management of natural resources, there are political differences. There is a difference between the policy of the Red-Green Government and the policy of the Right and the Progress Party that they will pursue if they are given the opportunity – and that they also have the programming. I have previously mentioned a case of homelessness – a classic example, where the red-green government insists that these are resources to be controlled and owned by the community, while the answer from the Progress Party and the Right is to open up to the liberalisation and sale of our large power plants. What's interesting about the debate is that when they are confronted with it, the Right Party and the Progress Party do not respond – the Progress Party then, in this case – to explain that this is their ideology. One does not argue for it in principle, but tries to talk away and around it – one says that the fossans are still lying in Norway, and the water is going to flow here. That's very interesting, because you should expect them to have a more principled approach where one said there's no goal for the community to own these resources. We don't believe it, we could have replied, and we could be more honest with our own policies. And then we also see it in the management of our protected areas. There, the red-green government has introduced local protective area management, while the Right in its reign had government-led bureaucracy in response to how the protection areas should be managed. I'm overconfident that a good natural resource management requires that those who live in the areas of resources, whether they are in the sea or on land, experience that some of the value creation remains local, and that the control of these resources also has a local anchor. Good management of valuable nature requires the same thing – that one takes seriously the experience-based knowledge that people living in areas with great natural values have and that they participate in the management of these values. All too often, we have seen examples of a management that is far away, placing one-sided emphasis on theoretical knowledge, ignoring the recordings of those who have lived and managed the same areas for generations. Stiff-legged rules have prevented local and reasonable solutions, even if measures do not threaten the protection objective. We've seen it through protection that's being pushed down over a reluctant population. I am pleased that the centre party and the red-green government have distorted this policy. More and more there is now voluntary protection to the extent that new areas are protected. That's what we see as good solutions that have legitimacy among those who live in the areas that are protected and who actually create commitment to those values. It is also resource saving for society. It's an important thing to say to us in the Center Party. And then we have to move on. We come from the Center Party's side to work for an even greater local impact on the management of local resources, simply because we think it's the best management. Politicians and bureaucrats here in the capital don't have a monopoly on the health of the people. I had almost said, on the contrary – the wit is equally distributed across the country. Very often, it is they who are closest to the problems, who are best placed to find the good solutions for their area. No one is more happy in nature and in the environment in their vicinity than those who live there. And no one depends anymore on a good management of those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1576	I'm a little surprised by the representative Sande's great commitment to the issue of ownership of hydropower. For the Progress Party, it has been important for Norwegian industry to be able to use Norwegian natural resources to ensure its competitiveness based on their presence in Norway. Today's government has deprived the industry of this possibility by saying that we should rather let state companies, for example. State power, be allowed to own hydropower in the future and play with that hydropower in European markets, rather than allowing Norwegian industry to invest in and own Norwegian natural resources, use it in its production, ensure its competitiveness and thus secure jobs in Norway. Now, under the red-green government, the power-processing industry is forced into a market and has to buy at market price. It does not seem that the Progress Party is a good industrial policy. But because of the Center Party's ideology, rather, the state should own and make money on this, rather than the industry should create values and jobs. Is it actually good district policy that the state takes over power, and the industry has to get into the market and buy power?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1585	Fortunately, it is not right as Solvik-Olsen says. What the government and the Central Party have been busy about is that we are just using the water resources for industrial production. What do you need to do? Well, then we have to have energy production – of course – good access to power, but we can't do it so that our industry has to compete to buy these huge values against big investors abroad who want to sell them for other purposes. Our industry will not. And then we have limitations on ownership and the ability we have to award power contracts to the industry, as we did before. The restrictions are based on international competition law, which the Progress Party has been more keen on than the Centre Party. The EEA Agreement is an example of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1592	Replica No. two to Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1595	Yes, this was not an answer to the challenge. Hydro and Elkem had power contracts that were not about selling to foreigners – before the government changed its policy. Then Elkem sold his power contracts. But until the government changed its policy on the fall-back case, Elkem and Hydro wanted to keep their strength, because they used it in their industrial production. So this government has been so ideologically concerned that the hydropower is to be owned by state corporations rather than by private and public industry, that they have changed the policy. But then the problem here is not that this ends with the foreigners, because the Progress Party said when we dealt with this matter, that here the state may have a right to pre-buy, if Hydro and Elkem want to sell this voluntarily. Then one ensures the national control. What the red-green government has done is force the industry to lose these contracts, and then a competitive power of the industry is weakened, one does not increase it. Then there are few companies that have used state power contracts that one has made available, simply because the scheme was too narrow. The question then again is: do you think that you have strengthened the Norwegian industry by taking over the hydroelectric power stations and selling the power to the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1604	This underscores the point I had from the pulpit. One tries to talk around the position one had when the cases of relapse were up. It was a clear distinction where the government, with the Center Party, said that when it comes to watercourse resources, they belong to the Norwegian community. But the system and the prescription that the Right and Advance Party wrote out in this room was a recipe for sale and privatisation. It may not have happened, but there were all the possibilities, and a theoretical possibility, for them to collect Norwegian hydroelectric power plants could be owned by international investors. We didn't join that. And that is a political difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1609	But that's wrong, what you're describing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1615	It is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1620	The President asks that the Rules of Procedure be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1623	It would be very nice if you could have confirmed that the Senter Party is a member of a government that lives as it preaches. But you don't. I have a fresh example locally, where one has been working with the Regional Plan for Rondane – The Silver Coat since 2007. There are two municipalities and all the municipalities around Rondane that have agreed on a management plan. It is now being overruled by the Ministry of the Environment. On a case-by-case basis, we look around the country to see that it is planned, monitored, discussed and concluded in the local People's Council, just to see that the matter is appealed to the Ministry of the Environment, and there it is in a long queue before it is rejected and possibly overlooked. It weakens the ownership of the individual, and it weakens and demoralizes the local government. So I want to ask the representative Sande again: is he really satisfied with the situation as it is in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1632	The case that Gunnar Gundersen raises, which relates to the management plan that Hedmark and Uppland County Municipality have been working on, is an important matter, and it is important for me to say that the government has not concluded. The Center Party and I are going to work to ensure that local and regional recordings are followed and met in that case – let me be very clear about it. Then I'm not going to say more about the specific case, but I'm going to say that it's a good example of how to work on plan work, that is, that municipalities and county councils participate, that the county council actually participates – it hasn't been good in the specific case here called – and that the recording and the work being done is taken seriously. We're going to have to work from the Center Party's side to make that happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1639	Now I'm new to the Energy and Environment Committee, so I've been trying to read up on the field a little bit. There's one thing I notice, and that's that when I read the committee chairman's statement and comments, I feel very well about it. It's a good center policy, it's a matter of administrative responsibility, it's about sustainable development, and when he's talking about, for example. oil policy, he is very clear that there should be predictability for the industry, there should be extraction of existing fields, tail extraction, stringent requirements, it should be environmentally friendly, and then he should protect vulnerable areas. It's a policy in which I know myself well. But then I also register, when I read what the government council – and Borten Moe is from the Center Party – says that I don't feel as well again. It also applies to what he wants with a new programme, opinions on going towards the North Pole, etc. That's why I'm excited about what's really the Central Party's policy. Is it the version of Borten Moe, or is it committee leader and center party Erling Sandes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1648	In any case, the representative Robstad is very welcome to the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and I look forward to working with the representative there. Then I must thank you for many good words. The central party's policy stands, I totally agree with that. So that's how we have different roles. A government council defends and expresses what is the government's policy, I have referred to what is the Central Party's programme, and what is the Central Party's policy. The Christian People's Party knows well that there can be nuances here – what are the parties' primary positions, and what will be the final outcome. I'm busy with just what Ropstad says, that we have a management of the petroleum resources that make the best use of the open fields, because we know that resources can remain if one does not take them out when there is activity in the field. I also know that a total accumulation was busy when the Committee and the Stortinget dealt with the notification of petroleum.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1662	Awakening in the morning and grinning at the day ahead, or for the sake of the matter to go into the night with this feeling, when the uncertainty is simply due to the fear of not getting the care you need, or as some of your closest ones need – yes, it must be job no. 1 to remove this turmoil. We have the resources and opportunities to provide a good health service. Fortunately, there is a lot that works well. We're gonna be happy for that. We're privileged in Norway. But we have a government that is failing in one crucial area in terms of care for the elderly. How we take care of our older people is the actual test of how we succeed as a society. A good care for the elderly that gives a decent old age must be a job no. 1st@item: inlistbox Therefore, the Christian People's Party fought through the guarantee of dignity. The guarantee of dignity is not a big word or reform. The guarantee of dignity takes into account all the obvious things: proper housing, hospitalization when you need it, that our elderly people should get up and lie down when they want it, good and nutritious food, help to eat if they need it, proper medication and follow-up of a doctor, and that you should get a daily life with content and meaning. These are tasks and areas that we all in this room take as naturalities. Then it was just to be missing if this was not to apply to our older people as well. The guarantee of dignity has become part of Norwegian legislation. But it's only half the job done. Money for the municipalities, our service providers, was and is a prerequisite for fulfilling the guarantee. This is where the government fails. There has not been enough money for municipalities to cover a worthy care for the elderly. That is why we need a shift, so we need a new government that can implement the dignity guarantee in practice – not just on paper. I have a vision: 'Never a sloping can' is my vision. Never will a mother and a father on his first trip get a snout, a snout saying that this child you could have removed. Never a can. Technological developments are moving rapidly, and medical research offers new opportunities. That's good, and we're going to take advantage of the opportunities that biotechnology gives us, among other things. to improve treatment methods for disease and injury. This must be done within ethically sound research, development and treatment. But in the years to come, we will be faced with many ethical dilemmas. Knowledge is important, but that's what we use the knowledge, which is crucial. The working party and SV respond too early to ultrasound to all pregnant women on the basis of a justifiable idea: if someone buys such a service, all women must receive this offer – despite the fact that there is no evidence of health gains at early ultrasound. But what is documented is that it will lead to fewer children born with Down's syndrome. The Christian People's Party wants a health service that is used to promote a society where there is room for all of us. Now our new Minister of Health is present in the Chamber, and I hope that our new Minister of Health will share my vision of never a sloping moment. If it's going to be reality, we need politicians who put ethics before technology. I think the clock has given me...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1694	If the representative has more to say, it's...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1697	No, I know I've used my 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1702	Then we agree. The system has clicked a little, but now seems to be in place again. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1708	When the representative Hareide made his statement, he put great emphasis on the word «family», and there is good reason to understand why he, as a representative of the Christian People's Party, is doing so, but I feel that there is a need for clarification. My claim is that the family has never been stronger in Norwegian society than it is now. The main reason for this is that, with political direction, we have strengthened the family's position in Norwegian society. It's about kindergartens, it's about parental leave, it's about SFO, it's about the economic development of Norwegian society that creates security. It provides a basis for education of children and safe health throughout a lifetime. What makes the Christian People's Party think that going into a Right-dominated government is going to make this situation better for families?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1717	I thank you for the question from Kolberg. Yes, my party leader in the Christian People's Party, Hareide, was busy with the family because the family is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox But in our family policy, we have a simple starting point, and that's that we believe in the families. We think it's Mom and Dad who know what's best for their family, or Mom who knows what's best – whether that's how it's at home. That freedom of choice has taken away the red-greens by cutting down on the cash support of the oldest children. Because we think that choice is a good choice that takes place around the kitchen table, and not around the Youngstorget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1724	I notice that in the article was the older job no. 1, and now children are job no. 1, and then I wonder if the world's poor is the job no. 1, because I have a question about that. After all, I have been working with the Christian People's Party in Development Policy for several years and have had a very good cooperation, among other things. by the state budget last year, where we re-prioritized 100 million. kr., e.g. for education, women and agriculture. I have heard the leader of the Christian People's Party today be very clear considering that one has chosen a side, one wants a new government, the Christian People's Party wants to enter and is open to cooperation with the Advance Party. Every year, the Progress Party is strongly involved in the assistance. Last year they cut the 7 billion. kr. – among others to the UN – it was in several areas, not least in the regional allocations to Africa. What I'm wondering about the Christian People's Party is: What do you think of a future collaboration with the Advance Party when you assume that the Advance Party will cut the aid strongly – and so will the Right? Where is it when the Christian People's Party is willing to cut? Is it in health, is it in education, is it in the United Nations, is it in the regional appropriations for Africa? I really want to hear how the Christian People's Party thinks about this, because it worries me a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1735	Thank you for a good question. Yes, the Christian People's Party has, the times we've been in government, and also throughout all our years in the Storting, the work of the world's poor. We've chosen a side, we're, with them, and we're shoulder to shoulder. We have shown that through our budgets here in Stortinget as an opposition party. We've managed to move a few funds under the red-green government. It's not despite this, but it's because of our commitment that we've managed to move a few funds. That's good, because it's about international solidarity, it's about human dignity. That fight is a good one for the Christian People's Party, and we intend to do well even if the voters give us a mandate that gives a majority on the non-socialist side after the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1742	This was an interesting answer, because the representative does not relate to reality. Because if you are going to cooperate with the Progress Party and the Right, you have to assume that you have to cut the aid. I have greatly appreciated the Christian People's Party's commitment to assistance, and as I mentioned in the introduction: I work well with, among other things. Dagfinn Højbråten. We have joined forces to strengthen more areas of aid policy, which has been very good. But I ask the representative to actually answer my question: Where is the Christian People's Party willing to cut? Because you have to assume that it might be about 5 billion. kr. to be cut into any State budget to be submitted — and where shall they be cut? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1749	I hear that the representative Hansen wants an answer, and in the answer I can refer to Britain, which has a government consisting of conservative parties that cut in all areas except one, and that is to the poor of the world. It's about a direction for that country, it's about some politicians showing leadership. That leadership has shown the Christian People's Party through our aid ministers, from Reidun Brusletten and upwards. I can assure the representative Hansen that that leadership will show the Christian People's Party to the poor of the world if the voters give us the confidence to bemoan them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1754	In the nations on 21 August, the Christian People's Party spokesperson said that the Christian People's Party supports the demand for increased import protection – as the government has now agreed. The Christian People's Party also had a joint remark with the government parties in connection with the agricultural settlement in spring, which states that the room for action must be used to ensure the proper functioning of import protection, even in the future – that is. access to either the krona or the percentage of customs duties on the main agricultural products. The Right Party and the Advance Party, with which the Christian People's Party will now cooperate, will weaken import protection. How is the Christian People's Party going to explain to its voters that they are now thinking about a cooperation that will weaken import protection and thus weaken Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1761	As the representative of the Central Party knows, the Christian People's Party's vision is that we should put the whole country into operation. This is why agriculture is important. That's why it's important to have farmers who want to get up today and do some work, but it's just as important that we get some new and young farmers who can stand up tomorrow and join this common cause. They need one input factor, and that's the Earth. That's why we have a strong commitment to taking care of our food soil. But we have faith in the farmers. Yesterday when I passed the Grand and read the menu, I could read about a sandwich with blue mould cheese from Tingvoll. I have faith in the production lines, in what is made of Norwegian raw materials. The Christian People's Party will stand up and fence around it. It's our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1766	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1769	I will agree with the representative Siv Jensen in one of the only things she has said today, namely that Norway is not slimming down. The little country our growth. Norway is a non-matched growing country. We're getting more and more, and fortunately, we're more and more present in life. But it's not just the number of people increasing, it's also the number of possibilities and businesses in this country. Our goal for Norway is that everyone should be allowed to create the lives they want; that everyone should be allowed to reach as far as they will without being stopped by anything other than the roof of their own dreams. Freedom lives on – and grows on – security. And free man, they dare to bet. That's why we're creating more. This is because we better distribute opportunities, freedom and security. Our country is leaning on human beings. Because it is us, not oil, who prays for the future. Growth, growth, business and economics — this depends on human ability to bet and courage to do so. Freedom is to be safe. This is the idea underlying our policy; the policy that has led to us, together with skilled and committed entrepreneurs, since we took over 300 000 new jobs in 2005. That means that every single day there are 125 new jobs, 125 new opportunities, 125 new ways to live a life. One third of these work to make our security. They make our welfare every day. They teach us, they take care of us, they care for us, and they make good days for our kids. It's also those who have made possible the greatest freedom project in recent history: that women can be allowed to decide over their own lives, that we have the opportunity, if family will, to send our kids to a safe place where they can learn and play while we're building and participating in the professional life we want. Therefore, I am darkened when I read and hear about the well-being of the Right Party and the Progress Party. With the reality as a hindrance, it is unlikely that some will suggest making the kindergartens more expensive — several thousand dollars more expensive. Then it helps very little with the freedom of choice that the Christian People's Party talks about, when there are no kindergartens to choose to or from. It's coercion, not choice. When I use the word 'unlucky' about that proposal, we need a new definition of understatement. It doesn't just affect the individual child or family, it affects people's freedom, people's courage, and business's ability to flourish even more. Our country gets less to lean on. It's a threat of peace to all of us. It's simply my friends' participation that is Norway's gold mine. The Community has twice as much emphasis on girls like Anna, Guro, Åshild, Margrethe and Monica as on oil. That's what we're leaning on. Nevertheless, the economy of this is secondary. The most important thing is that Community solutions make us safe to dry. That some dare to suggest cutting it, to me, is totally unimaginable. Then it can't be much of a business or a human being. It is easy the job as, among other things, the childcare facilities, which provide the basis for the other two-thirds of the jobs that have been created – the many thousands of jobs that have been created in the private sector. Only in 2012 have 16 000 new businesses been born in this country. It is now time to ask ourselves how it is possible in our time, in our Europe, where it seems that the only thing that is growing up is debt and unemployment. What makes people dare to bet in Norway? It's that there's knowledge and possibilities that we've made things easier, for example. by lowering the capital requirement, and by so many skilled professionals, who are active and innovative within the areas on which we have special arrangements for closure. But perhaps most important of all: Norway is made up of safe people, who know that when they're at work, there are some there because they're happy about it. That's why they have the ability and the freedom to bet. And they also know that there are some there for themselves, if anything should go wrong. And who are they "some"? "Some" is Ingrid, Maria, Rikke, Arnhild and all the Ragnhild, it's Marta in the cantina. "Some," it's us, it's us. And we're not going anywhere, we're keeping the ladder, we're accepting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1790	I have received comments that I was so gentle when Minister of Culture Tajik at the opening of the Stortinget on Tuesday presented the message about the state of the kingdom. The newspaper chose to bring out the joy I felt over the beautiful sounding newnorse. It was a good reason to be in a good mood. But just as important was the large picture that was drawn, an image that I also think the country's National Assembly should stay a little at the entrance of a new big session. Once again, we hold the debate in a situation where Norway differs from almost all other countries. We see almost daily heartbreaking reports on how ordinary workers in Europe are affected by an economic crisis. Younger generations face hopeless, without permanent work and without fixed income. It will be cut into welfare arrangements. Angry point. Still fewer believe in a light at the end of the tunnel. All this we see, day after day, at the same time as we here in Norway for comparison live what we could almost call the gentleman's happy days. I think everyone in this room should be grateful for the rich possibilities that our country has given us. Then I'll come up with a warning at the same time. I mean to see a gruesome tendency that a believer is not so careful who controls our country – that the arrows will point straight no matter who is at the rudder. But it's when the storm is at its worst around you, that it's important which captain you have on the boat, and which crew you have on board. Whoever's standing at the rudder is sticking out the course, and that means something to the direction the country is going in. We are well aware of one of the areas for which I, the Council of State, am responsible, namely regional policy. And here, too, we're separated from many other countries. In Norway, we can actually choose a life in vibrant, small communities throughout the country, if we want to. It is possible because we have led an active district policy that counteracts the strong gravity of centralisation. We cage and house the resources in all parts of our country. It's amazing. But the fact that we use the whole country, and the fact that we're blessed with high mountains and deep valleys, makes some people experience a distance problem. Transport policy is one of the tools the government uses when we create equal opportunities throughout the country. This reduces distance disadvantages, increases value creation and competitiveness, and expands labour markets in order to ensure growth in labour regions. For the government, this is a value option. We choose to invest in future across the country, not just in the most central strata. It's an important choice, because we know that other political forces want to go in a different direction. As a municipal minister, I've been busy looking at old-age care with new eyes. Grandparents are not as they once were. They are healthier, more active, and live longer than ever. Our elders have been younger, both in body and in mind. But society and politics don't go along. Many politicians are still talking about the elderly as a single, resource-weak group. Loneliness, poor health and a passive existence are images that are glued to seniors in our country today, and of course there are those who have it like that. But good health and an active welfare state make us live longer. Today we become many more older in our country. Is that what I'm calling it? No, no, no. The society has dimmed the "elder wave". Too many people see it as just a challenge, which increases costs in a public budget. I think we'd better see the possibilities. With a new ageing policy, seniors can be healthy longer and have a happier and more meaningful old age. Today’s policy has been a competition in who can build most sick homes. Of course, it's important, but I'd rather compete for who has the best measures to postpone the day you actually have to go to the institution. Everyone has a past. But in the social debate, there is one group that will not be left a future. The elderly have life behind them. We can't have it like that! Of course, our older people should also have a future, and they should be able to enjoy themselves every day. It becomes important to focus on the future. The housing debate has been running high several months now. The government shall contribute to the improvement of housing construction by means of our instruments. But we don't have to repeat tabs from the 1950s and 1960s, because everything was focused on building many buildings quickly, with poor quality. It's important for the families who make their biggest investment in life, that they build forward-looking homes that provide health security, that use little energy, and that are available to everyone. It's important to me in the future, and I'm going to do a lot of work on it. I like to send a big message about that theme over the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1812	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1815	The municipality of Norway, as you know, has had a very strong population growth in recent times. Population growth is now about 70,000 per year. Of course, it makes it much more expensive to operate Norwegian municipalities and provide services in Norwegian municipalities. But what's a problem here is that when the municipal minister and the government present the budget, they don't present the real population figure in the budget year, but one presents the population figure the year before the budget year, and since the growth rate is 70,000 a year, there are 70,000 people for whom the municipalities don't get any income transfers. My question is, how are municipalities supposed to provide services to these, when the government doesn't want to contribute to transferring money corresponding to this population growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1822	This was a new problem. I agree that we have a high population growth, but we also have a well-developed system where the municipalities – at KS – and the state sit together in the technical calculation selection and calculate demography, i.e. population growth, how it will develop, how many older we get, and how many kids we get. In general, the groups of municipalities have expenditure – those who are in working age, perhaps taking a different route with income to municipalities over the tax haven. So it's not like we're creating a budget without having a reasonable understanding of where the population will come from, and what means the municipalities will need. We do that in a good sense with KS. We have a very good and constructive cooperation with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1827	I agree with the government council Navarsete in one thing: it was good to hear a bit of good Western curiosity in the report on the state of the kingdom and not the trouser news that we have heard for many years now. So that was a good change. The council of Navarsete was concerned that she had noticed a tendency that the voters did not think it was so careful who was driving the country. There I must say I disagree. If you look at the evolution of opinion polls, it looks like the voters are very concerned about it, but they want a shift to new solutions and to better ideas. Last year, the Council of State presented to Navarsete a major report on the relationship between the State and the municipality. Just before the Council of State made its contribution, her co-worker Erling Sande was up here and talked about that now we had to gain more power out to local elected and less power to the Oslo elite, or the bureaucracy. Is Navarsete satisfied with the fact that there are still 22 government agencies that can raise objections and review local elected decisions? Does the Council of State think she's achieved a lot in seven years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1836	Yes, the government council thinks she's achieved a great deal in seven years. Firstly, we have given financial freedom to the municipalities, so that they can give priority to themselves. We have a historically low ear mark, which gives freedom of action to local priorities. We listen to the municipalities, at KS, at the constellation meeting. We take up and become involved in some of the issues, such as the phase-in of the new cooperation reform, which we have a great deal of cooperation with the municipalities. Yes, I think we have done a lot in that area and in many, many other areas. So I'm proud of that. We are now working on the follow-up to the Storing Message on the relationship between the state and the municipality. The last time today, I have had a constructive and good meeting with my colleague in the Ministry of the Environment, where we are just discussing what I am saying in the message – how we are going to coordinate the state ‘disclosure institute’, or the counterinstitution, which I would like to say in anew. We're working on that, and we're going to come back to that at some point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1843	I have a question for the Minister of Housing. The Christian People's Party will solve the housing crisis and create cities of high quality of life. If we want more homes, more cyclists and pedestrians, fewer cars and commuters, a short distance from the field, less land degradation and pressure on the ground, more life in the center of parks and green streets, then the answer is higher buildings. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will demand that it be built higher, especially around the central collective node. An example for follow-up is the Bjørvika extension, driven by, among others. by Christian People's Party. Does the Council agree that it should be ensured that more is built at the level of the press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1850	Yes, I am. I agree with the Christian People's Party as a whole for the good purpose that was mentioned – it could have our Center Party's program for the development of good cities – and I agree that we must build both taller and tighter. We also need to build around nodes, and we need to coordinate land and transport policies to achieve this. It is important that Bård Vegar Solhjell, the Minister for the Environment, and I have close and good cooperation. I know that some areas are well under way, e.g. in Sandnes, where one has been given a good co-ordinated development of land and transport, where one builds around a nodal point, and where one of course also assesses how high one should build – I don't have a complete overview of that. But I think that we're going to be closed down giving good housing to the big population that comes especially in the press areas, we're also forced to build higher. So yes, I'm mixed up in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1857	The Navarsete State Council has long announced a major communication on housing policy, as well as today, and there is no doubt that there is a need for a broad approach to address the challenges in major cities. The left means, among others: that it is absolutely necessary to review the current regulations of the Planning and Building Act. It takes time to make building both simpler and cheaper — of course, as long as all safety requirements are met. Then we notice that the Council of State now alerts to the construction industry – perhaps today – that she will consider changing housing requirements. So my question is, what concrete demands will the Council of State consider removing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1864	What I have said in the invitation to actors in the industry – which I am not going to meet today, but very soon – is that I should listen to their proposals, that we should have a constructive debate. Just like when we had a workshop last week, with actors from both the public and the private, from construction, etc., with many good suggestions, I'm going to take the suggestions they come with me. Because it's those people who work on this for the day, who watch every shoe print, and who also see what creative suggestions we can get on the table. So I'm not up to today with the answer to what I'm going to do, because I hope to get some good input, but I have a clear ambition that we're going to get some simplification measures that will make the construction processes go even better than today. I know that the Minister for the Environment, who is responsible for the powers of the Board of Plans, also has the same ambition. It's one of the things that makes it easier for us to get a faster expansion of more – and good – high-quality buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1871	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1874	This is an important debate. Unfortunately, there is a debate in which government parties present few visions, but spend a lot of time making artificial distinctions between what this government achieves and what the opposition did in 2005. So one compares the budget figures from now on to budget figures from six to seven to eight years ago, and it's a completely meaningless comparison when the budget went up by 350 billion. kr – over 50 pst. There is evidence of a lack of confidence in your own goals and results when you are unable to compare with comparable years. In view of this, the criticism is also that some parties on the bourgeois side want tax relief, quite meaningless. When the Progress Party wants tax relief of more than 25 billion. This does not mean that the country net loses money compared to e.g. in 2005. That would just mean that the tax income had not been 350 billion. kr higher, but only 325 billion. kr higher. We know that there is a significant potential for improving the efficiency of the public sector. When even SV's Audun Lightbox goes out and regrets that there are now too many bureaucrats, then there's meat that can be cut away, and that's not meat, it's pork. When Menon makes a report to the Academics that you can save up to 45 billion dollars. to improve the purchasing systems of the State and the municipality, it is then possible to provide tax relief without the need to lay down sick homes, which the Workers' Party always prioritises when cutting. The Progress Party wants a responsible economic policy, but it must have real content, not just banners and slogans. It makes sense to cut taxes to stimulate positive results. If we cut the minimum deduction of income tax, we can stimulate some of the hundreds of thousands of people who, in their pre-employment situation, are still out of the labour market today. We can get several of those who work part-time to contribute to the economy we have. If we give relief to business, for example: Better depreciation rules may involve slightly more wind power projects investing in Norway instead of in Sweden. We have a green certificate that applies to both countries, but Sweden has better tax conditions, and then investments go too far there. We can get people to drive collectively, stimulate them by giving them tax-free collective cards from the employer. The government itself has said that they estimate that 175 000 drivers will then drive buses and trains instead of cars, and the revenue of the public companies will increase much more than the tax relief costs the state. Nevertheless, the government is opposed, on an ideological basis. We need to use tax policy wisely and not say that the level one had in 2004 is sacred. We also need to invest more in building stock, infrastructure and productivity-promoting equipment. It makes no sense when the health service today goes to the purchase of fax machines to communicate with each other. It makes no sense when the police in Asker and Bærum are laughing because they see that Poland is purchasing ICT equipment that is available in the market but that we cannot afford in Norway. Unfortunately, when the State budget does not distinguish consumption from investment, and when one has adopted a rule of action that discriminates against oil money, it goes as it goes. So we have reports that if we repair the main road network in Norway, we get back three and a half heads for each of the heads we invest, compared to a financing model today that goes apart and divided. We had a debate this summer on the positive effects of the intercity triangle around Oslo railway. But today's government adds up to a 30-year term. It should be built over ten years. It doesn't cost more in total, but the utility value will get faster. You'll be doing something about the housing offer in this region and the workforce. Right now it's the buyer's market. The labour force and the entrepreneurship company are available in the EU. When we talk to the industry, they say, "Give us half a year's search time, we'll give you exactly what you need." The advantage of getting foreign entrepreneurs is that they should not talk to patients or students. They're going to talk to a manager who needs to speak the same language. But what they talk about in between, they take care of themselves. Instead, we have said that we should conduct an economic policy – now we are talking about the government. There's a loan out of the oil money surplus cheaply, and then we'll finance the road with tolls. Borrowing money abroad is expensive. This is not a sensible economic policy, and it is not a responsibility. So we have a rule of action that governs our economy today, where the way by definition leads to inflation because the investment takes place within the state budget, while the oil investment Petoro, which is also state-owned, happens outside, and that doesn't lead to inflation. If you build the railroad, it gives inflation, but you build the windmills through State Power, it doesn't. Yes, one actually has the illogical approach that if State power gets extra money to build wind turbines in Norway, it doesn't create inflation, but if the same money is given through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to build wind turbines in Africa, it creates pressure in the Norwegian economy. It suggests that everyone in this room should want to change that rule of action so that we distinguish consumption from investment, ensure that money spent in Norway is counted, and that money spent abroad is not counted in the same way. Then we can build the country in a real way. Now we're wasting our wealth. So we could build the country with capital and rather save the financial capital. It's so important, but we're going to live on our labour force in the future, not just on interest income.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1898	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1901	Let me just start by saying that I think it is nice that the representative Solvik-Olsen finds the debate interesting enough to participate in. So it's nothing new that the Progress Party has more money than any other party. It has been the situation since the establishment of the oil fund. What's new here is you're trying to give it a hint of seriousness through this so-called alternative rule of action. Then, of course, it can be discussed whether it can be called an action rule all the time it's arranged so that everything you have to choose to define as investment goes outside. Please add technical discussions to the page. I want to ask the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen the very basic question: Does he recognize that there is actually a connection between how quickly you phase into the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy, and the warming he sees as a result at the other end? Or does the representative have an alternative view of that too?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1910	It is very good that you reveal that you have not understood what the Advancement Party has argued for for 20 years, because then I can clarify it. The Progress Party has consistently argued that there are, of course, capacities in the Norwegian economy. But you cannot see Norwegian economy isolated from imports/export opportunities. We've earned a lot of money that the Chinese have supplied us with cheap goods. This has meant that inflation in Norway has been low. Now it is also possible to import labour to expand concrete projects. Then we should make use of it. We've told you to separate consumption and investment. We've said that we include everything. Those who cheat here are, of course, the government of the day, as if you were to allow a state company to spend money, it has no impact on the Norwegian economy. So, a government in a state company is responsible for managing oil money outside the budget, but Stortinget does not get the opportunity to spend the same money, because then it suddenly creates inflation. It's tricking the Norwegian population. Thus, today’s government has a rule of action that includes the State budget, but all that is defined as so-called asset redistribution – equity, stock exchange trading – is not included. Then it's the government that cheats.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1919	I think it's important to keep your speaking time and look at the clock along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1922	It is obvious that the representative Solvik-Olsen did not fully follow when the representative Mikalsen gave his little lesson on the activity adjustment of the oil money used earlier. He can go back in the minutes and read. I just record that while all other parties have a consensus on the most important framework for the use of oil money, a consensus that also has broad support in professional economic environments, the Progress Party will erode it. It's going to lead to an increase in the use of oil money. It's a fact. But put aside the discussion of consumption and investment: the rule of action has another important function besides ensuring that you avoid overheating and pressure in the economy. It is a very effective rule that provides for the redistribution of well-being and resources between generations. Can Solvik-Olsen at least acknowledge and admit that the use of money that he stands for will be a redistribution of well-being in the favor of us who stand here, at the expense of those who come after us?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1931	Let me first clarify: you later on as if I didn't understand the relationship in the economy, but I do. So the fact that you didn't get that I understood those relationships is more your problem, not my problem. But let me point out: I followed well with the representative Mikalsen had his comments. What I argue against is that when the SSB adjusts oil investments after the government has completed its budgetary process, this government does not reduce its use of oil money in the state budget. Ergo is such that the oil investments on the Norwegian base are not counted when assessing the pressure it is in the Norwegian economy. Do not give the impression that there will be greater pressure in the Norwegian economy by building a road than if you had spent the same money on a project to extract oil. In the second case, about generations, let's say we had spent 70 million dollars. kr to build 1 km road in 1998. If we had instead saved that money and taken it out today, you would not have gotten 1 km away. You'd got 0.74 kilometers away. Ergo: Postponing profitable investments because you'd rather give money to future generations, makes them less money than more. That's not a good generation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1938	The President will inculcate that all speech should be addressed to the President. That means that the form 'you' is not common to use from Stortingen's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1941	Last week, the Equality Committee, chaired by Professor Hege Scheie, presented NOU 2012: 15 Policies for Gender Equality. The selection is broadly composed. It is a selection of researchers and is fully based on thorough studies, research and documented facts. The committee concluded that we did not get too far with equality here in Norway. We're too short. We need continued efforts for freedom and freedom of choice, for the fair distribution of power and the economy also between women and men. So my question to the Progress Party is: does the Advance Party share this knowledge-based reality description?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1950	The party of progress, with party leader Siv Jensen, promoted in this room for approx. two to three years ago, a proposal that the Storting should have a case to improve the pay situation for women-dominated low-wage workers. That proposal did not receive a majority in this Chamber. So the Progress Party has taken several initiatives to try to improve exactly what you're going to do. So it's obvious that we have a little bit of different tools, but that doesn't mean that the Progress Party is uninterested in the topic. If we had done something about the way we organize the Norwegian health care system, and made sure that more nurses could work full-time instead of part-time, making sure that people can work up in the pay hierarchy instead of having a code that means you don't get full-time jobs, you could have done a lot about the problem you're going to. It's a paradox that while this government is very busy having a clean working life in the private sector, we have a health care system where most doctors go on six months' contracts. It's not worth the Norwegian health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1961	It is always interesting to hear how elegantly the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen claims that the others are wrong. I think that's kind of nice to bring with me. What I'm going to come up with is that tax haven't been a review theme. You've been talking about it, you've been talking about having more money for the most part. Clearly, the government’s ambition is great in the Advancement Party. I want to challenge Solvik-Olsen on how big it really is. There's a lot of things where we feel there's disagreement between the right parties. One of the themes is tolls, where the representative and I last debated Ryfast, where there is disagreement within his home country and in the Progress Party. Then I want to challenge the representative: what should be said that the other right-wing parties turn around and support the Progress Party if the eagerness to cooperate is so great? Is it such that the Progress Party must turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1970	I mean, with authority, I can point out when others are wrong about what position I have. This does not mean that I can thus claim that I am objectively correct in my positions. But I have to be able to point out when others attach myself to positions I don't have. It's something different than what the representative insinuated. In the case of tolls, the Progress Party considers that tolls with the current level of tolls on cars are a poor way to finance further road construction. That's because we have a surplus in the government finances that we lend to Germany for example. 1.8 pst interest. Instead of financing new roads in Norway with oil money, we will finance them. The municipal bank has financed 21 toll projects in Norway. 97 pst. of the capital from the rest of the world. The average interest rate for Norwegian toll projects is 2.9 pst., which is 1.1 pst. higher than what we get when we borrow oil money. It's pointless politics. In any case, whether camouflaged as OPS projects or as state road construction, on which this government operates, it is a poor way to finance the roads. I am sure the blue government will build more roads than today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1978	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e1981	I will begin by praising the thousands who every day go to work in Health-Norway. In the middle of a travel everyday they do their very best for patients and users. It is these people who deserve the greatest recognition when Norway is eligible for the world’s best care country by the OECD. The government works for good quality at all stages, secure services, short waiting times and equal availability of health and care services for all. Our aim is to further develop a strong public health system that has the confidence of the population. Taking care of one’s own health is a great personal responsibility. Taking care of the health of the population is a responsibility for the community. That task should not be privatised or commercialised. But we invite to a broad cooperation to solve problems and challenges. This applies to voluntary, non-profit and private actors. The cooperation agreement between the government and the Freewill of Norway, signed yesterday, opens up new opportunities. We give priority to hospitals, and now we see results. Waiting times and number of timeouts are going down. The number of investigations and treatments has increased by 1.4 million since 2005. We treat more people, and we treat better. Two thirds of the hospitalisations are immediate help, and many patients are in treatment as part of a planned course. These patients are not on the waiting list. But there are challenges. We must not give up on that. My predecessor introduced a clear culture of transparency. We're going to learn from mistakes that have happened, so that patients can feel safe. The paper on patient safety will point forward and launch new initiatives. We work all the time to improve the quality of healthcare. It's about staff, organisation, quality and resources. We're on our way. We now have good control of the hospitals' finances. In three out of four regions, the economy is balanced. This opens up new investments and investments that benefit large patient groups. Hospitals carry out major changes. In particular, it is demanding in the capital area. I will recognise all those who have been in these conversions and have taken responsibility. It was right to build new Ahus, and it was necessary to coordinate the professional environments in Oslo. There's no going back for it. Now we have to move on. So far, there's still a lot of work to do. For this reason, it is now clear to management and employees that the task now is to bring together medical-professional goals, to create good working environments and to use the forces on the most important – the patients. The Ministry of Health and Welfare follows the process closely and has clear expectations as an active owner. I believe that the model that the Stortinget has adopted with state ownership and regional and local anchoring is correct. We need to further develop, adjust and improve this model, and it will be continuously evaluated. But it is a wise device that they know best in the west about local conditions and spaces for interaction in the west – as they know best in Middle Norway about Middle Norway, in the north of North Norway and in the south-east of the south-east. Then we're going to have a national overall governance, anchored in plans in this room. Three-quarters of a year into the cooperation reform, we see good results and great commitment. Many of those who have completed hospital treatment are now returning to the municipality more quickly and receive the follow-up they need there. Local medical centres are established, and there are health centres in 145 municipalities already. I notice that these are also challenges. We need to solve them through learning, contact and dialogue. But we have to stick to the targets, because this is the right course. We have good public health in Norway. But there are big social differences. Lifestyle diseases harm the individual and put heavy pressure on the health care system. This extends beyond the health sector and is about how we share the welfare of society. A good distribution policy is good public health policy. The welfare state and a fair tax system contribute to better public health. A fresher people are also socially profitable. But most importantly, it is good for the people who live in the country. That is why public health work is so important. We are in the process of implementing a national public health strategy across departments. It is important to stress that this is the objective of the Interaction Reform: that we can solve people's health challenges, near where they live, close to the challenges they face, best for people and at the lowest possible cost. So that's how we get more older in the years that come. It's the welfare community's bonus. Most are healthy and an important resource for society. It will inspire us to think again about the health and care service of the future. The map we're going to draw for the future Health Norway, we're going to have to draw now. Then we have to understand the terrain. In a country where the disease picture and population change, there is also a need to change requirements for innovation in solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2002	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2005	In the last few days, TV2 has revealed great weaknesses in the public medical service, and the Minister of Health disapproves of having had a good experience with Oslo. If that experience was so good, you might ask yourself why the Minister of Health himself has chosen to use the private medical officer repeatedly. The serious thing in this situation is that the Minister of Health will not listen to professionals, patients and relatives who so clearly shout a warning, as we have seen on television. Is it the case that the Minister of Health relies more on a single self-experience from the medical officer rather than listening to the reports of doctors, relatives and patients about the unsustainable conditions they experience every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2012	It's not like that. I'm taking this case very seriously. I'm going to underline it very clearly, and I hope it's correctly represented when I underline it. What has come to light in TV2's report, I take it seriously. What is being investigated by the Knowledge Centre on the Medical Watch, I take the utmost seriousness. I'm in dialogue with the games and the municipalities. This is the responsibility of the municipalities. It has to be organized closely. It is not right for me to conclude that medical care throughout Norway is in crisis and poor – I do not want to blackmail it. But there are challenges at this stage of our healthcare. These include: on the regulations and requirements of competence of the medical officer. It's about the possibility of a rear guard for those who are at work. There are a lot of questions we have to deal with. I can confirm to the representative that I am taking it very seriously. I have even today called one of those who have experienced losing their closest in something that may have been mistreatment by the medical officer, to express my compassion for him and to stress that the impression that I did not take this seriously is wrong. I'm taking it seriously and I'm going to take it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2021	The medical watch system includes 1.3 million consultations. It is a very important part of healthcare, but there has been evidence for a long time that there is also an emergency medical service in the backyard in terms of the professional level. This is not new information. This was well documented by the Ministry of Health from the Competant Centre in 2008. Nevertheless, the government chose not to deal with this in the context of the Interaction Reform, which was addressed by the Health and Welfare Committee. A unanimous committee instructed the government to follow this up at national health level. In the national health plan, the government said that this should come back when it promoted regulations in the context of the Interaction Reform. The rules governing the cooperation reform are now ready for consultation. The medical profession is not mentioned in one single word. The Minister of Health cannot transfer this responsibility to the municipalities. It is the responsibility of the government to draw up new regulations for the medical watch system that impose the requirements of competence and the contents of the medical watch so that people can seek medical care in a safe manner to ensure that they will receive medically sound medical treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2026	I still feel that it is my responsibility to say that there is a lot of good work done by the medical officer. A lot of people get good help on the medical team around the country. But there are challenges. I can stress that we are going to look at the competence requirement regulation. But let's go to the core of what's medical care. It's the general practitioners. To a large extent, it's the game. The fact that there are more regulars and a larger group of regulars provides better grounds for recruiting a medical officer. The fact that the decision-maker is more open, that we have opening hours in addition to working hours, solving emergency medical needs. I think it's important, here too, to look at the differences between municipalities. I have checked, at some of the municipalities that TV postings have shown that they have had major problems with the medical service, even if the municipalities see it this way – it is a mixed picture. It underlines that it is not necessarily those who report problems, who make mistakes, but we need to look in and see how each municipality plans its primary health services, its emergency functions. It can be done in different ways. But I confirm again: I'm taking this seriously, and we're going to look at the regulations also in terms of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2033	It is great that the Council of State speaks nicely about the non-profit sector and the cooperation agreement that was concluded yesterday between Works and the government. It is now important to use it for the benefit of patients, whether it is patients who need the non-profit sector for drug treatment or rehabilitation. Governments are busy with the patient. One of the biggest bottlenecks we have in healthcare is communication — or lack of communication — and demanding communication lines. We know that faxes are purchased, taxis are used. Here in Oslo, we have been through one of the biggest reorganisation processes, which the Council of State itself was involved in, without putting in place an ICT system. The opposition proposed this, but was put to a vote. The government announces in the throne that an ICT message should be delivered. My question is then whether this message really becomes the force needed for a better patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2044	I hope that message will be positive. It is quite clear that in our society we want electronic solutions that make all transport stages as minimal as possible, which means that the representative and I may have our patient records – sometime – gathered in one place, in a document that can be transported around to those who need to see it, in a safe way. This shouldn't be a remote vision, it's already possible. But I have respect for the fact that rolling out such a reform throughout Health Norway takes time. That's what this big message is going to look at. So I would like to stress that those who are going to solve problems today, until we have such a system, have to improvise and also use a fax – I understand that it looks unsatisfactory. But I want to commend all those who make these systems work better – on the way to such a goal. So it's that the Storing Message can draw up lines, but already today hospitals will invest a lot in new technology. The representative and I were present when a new hospital got the foundation stone laid down yesterday. It's going to be a state-of-the-art hospital that's probably in the front when it's ready. So yes, this is a bet, and we're going to make it clear in the government budget that comes in the week.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2053	Yesterday we read in the evening post that according to an audit report, there are significant and continuous deficiencies and weaknesses related to internal management and control of the whole of Health South-East. It goes into the sequence of warnings we've been given. Does the Council of State agree that Health South-East has a management problem, and what is the Council of State's reason for this management to sit?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2060	As I said in my post, the Capital Region has challenges that have not yet been solved. I have met with the regional health companies, stressing my clear expectations. Now I have confidence in those who have leadership responsibility until I have no confidence, and I will not see any half-way doubt about it. It is expected that those with executive responsibility today will take this into account. What has become known about these reports is conditions that have existed in this region long before it was about using the resources and seeing the links better in the capital region. So in some ways it's brutal, but it's good that these relationships come up – about patient records, about bureaucracy, about lack of management. I think the whole health and care sector has a big management challenge, because it's a very complicated sector, not just in the metropolitan region. But I want to stress that there have been shifts in management functions in this capital region. It is now important that those responsible take responsibility, and that they deliver on what I said, and focus on the medical-professional, working environment – for the patient's benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2070	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2073	Several red-green representatives have almost made an ironic point that the Right is concerned with implementation. Yeah, that's right. We're concerned about what results and what security and welfare we get out of all the money a government has for distribution, not just telling us that a government spent more last year than last year. We now know that 77 human lives could have been saved if society had been better prepared. It is an order order for the entire political system. The Monitoring Committee of the Grand Duchy will now clarify what has failed and who has failed on 22 July, before 22 July, and what its consequences may be. Government and opposition will play different roles, but we also have to play together, as it is absolutely necessary to regain confidence in our management systems. But in parallel with the work of the Control Committee, we must also look ahead and do things now. In the context of the budget – at least in the field of justice – we must drill even more and deeper, if possible, than ever before, because at all we know what we actually get from security, for the government's description so far we have been told in the past that it is not comprehensive. New ideas, new solutions and not least the ability to implement rather than media sales are needed to create a safer society. It does not seem that this has happened when more police districts report that preparedness is now lower than it was before July 22nd last year. An example of information received from the Stortinget: In 2008, I asked the previous Minister of Justice a question about the number of calls and emergency calls that were not answered by the Oslo Operation Centre, how many and what tasks were not undertaken due to lack of capacity, and what was the number of cars and patrol crews. The answer was as follows: ‘Although attention is largely focused on the police’s resource and manning situation, several recent observations show that the police have the necessary capacity and deal with serious incidents in a very reassuring way.’ So looking up in the media was the answer – and we see how good the answer was. The PST situation has leaked into the media. According to the leaks, it's critical. The description is – to put it a little cautiously – not exactly in line with the information the Stortingen has received in and outside the media. This is at the heart of what the Prime Minister has also pointed out, namely that everything is not necessarily about money, but about cultures, capacity for implementation and, not least, transparency about the real situation. We have to ask ourselves the question of why these cultures have become so, and why one has not been able to use bitter experiences other countries have done before us. One reason might be that quite a number of police officers report threats and pressures when they have tried to point to weaknesses in their own organisation. There may be an important reason for – and enable us to understand – the lack of culture, management and implementation, that it has been allowed to spread. Then we can ask questions about where, when and how the information has stopped. The defense was not put on a real test on July 22nd. What if that, for example? Walked by one or more dirty bombs as well? So a rather limited solo terrorist managed to paralyze large parts of our state apparatus and became the story of resources that didn't find each other. We have to, in parallel with evaluating what actually happened, make sure that human life could have been lost, or could have been lost, in ways other than what we saw last year. It could have gone a lot, a lot worse, and it could also go a lot, a lot worse if we don't realize how vulnerable we are. The worst thing that can happen in the future is that we all say that we want a strengthened readiness, without taking in what it actually means. The right is of the opinion that the police must have fewer goals to manage, that more use should be made of other police professionals, and that the police might have a good deal fewer responsibilities and much better organisation, so that we can concentrate on what we think we need a police officer for. There is a good room for new ideas and new solutions throughout the field of justice, for example: the resolution of the DNA-analysis monopoly, which has passed under red-green control, to the detriment of e.g. the country's victims of rape, a proper strategy for increasing and improving the use of other police professionals, and including the private security industry in the preparedness process. Eight years – seven so far – is enough. New ideas, new solutions and far better implementation are needed. It's right-wing willing and ready to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2107	This year's census invited to freedom and security. This invitation is accepted by the Progress Party. But – when the Progress Party talks about security and freedom, we mean this for everyone, also for those who struggle in everyday life. We know that many children grow up under unsafe conditions, which gives these children very reduced freedom and very little security. We also know that many young people and adults are struggling – finding their place in society, struggling with anxiety, depression or other illnesses. Lack of offers takes away from them the opportunity to feel security and freedom – the freedom to shape their own lives. Older nurses, too, feel this. Their reduced health has first taken away their freedom. As the years go by, the security of a dignified care at the end of life also disappears. Norway has very many good social arrangements and a good health care system. Many people only meet well-being and good treatment, and these are also very grateful for it. They're grateful because they know it's not a matter of course that the system worked just for them. It's a challenge for society that it's the resources, the rich or those with big networks around it that will be easier to get the right help at the right time. Media has been good at pointing out what's going on -- simple stories that are upsetting us, giving us a reminder of a system that doesn't work for everyone. The Progress Party believes it must be our duty as politicians to take on what does not work, without it being about black paint. The government must also be conscious of its responsibility and take the debate on what is not good. When the government consistently just wants to talk about what's good, and at the same time meets any criticism with claims of black paint and exaggerations, you're left with a feeling of having a government that doesn't take individuals seriously. I've met many of these. It's not a good feeling. I see and know that society has failed them, but I can do nothing, except to comfort, promote suggestions and lift the debate. A brief review of previous persuasion debates shows that government representatives always use this opportunity to paint, boast of their own excellence and criticise anyone who had to try to raise problems about faults and shortcomings. Psychiatry is such an example, but was not even mentioned in the throne or by the Minister of Health. We know that mental disorders are responsible for much of the pay-out of disability benefits and sick pay; we know that mental disorders often end up in rushes or – even worse – in suicides, and we know that it is very demanding for those who are affected, for their children, parents, siblings and friends. They all suffer, because the help comes too late, is not adapted or takes too little time. That's why it's bad to witness the degradation of psychiatry that's now happening and that's happened in the last few years. The mental health escalation plan, supported by an overall build-up, gave the psychiatrist an important, correct and well-deserved boost. Unfortunately, we witnessed a confusion of the result, when the government removed the earmarked funds. Security and freedom have swept away too many in recent years. It is unacceptable to witness desperate young people who stand up on the TV route and tell of a lack of help, a lack of follow-up, when they struggle with their energy. The party of progress will therefore also provide those who are struggling with mental health, security and freedom – by demonstrating their power of action. Earmarked means of mental health at all stages must be in place. This is a case of lowthreshold provision in municipalities, which is crucial for the prevention part. Then it's about when the sick person is standing there with a prop to the psychologist in his hand, he can choose the one who's available and not have to choose either to wait six months or to go to the private psychologist and pay for himself. Then it's about using all the available places around the country. We know it's free capacity, but it's not used because of lack of funds and ideology. I think everyone agrees that getting the right help at the right time makes a difference in getting well or getting even sicker. I also think everyone here sees that it is socio-economically profitable to use the available capacity and the knowledge we all possess. But then that means that we have to prioritize it, we have to wish it. The party of progress is a party with power of action. That is why we are still promoting proposals in this Chamber that can solve today’s challenges – now. When the Progress Party talks about security and freedom, we mean it for everyone, and we mean it now. We don't mean it to next year or in two years or in ten years – we mean it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2137	It is interesting to follow the debate today. It waves from the impression that it is certainly not easy to be a citizen in Norway, that it has certainly become much easier to be a citizen in Norway. I guess the truth for most people is somewhere in the middle. It's pretty good to be a citizen in Norway, but we have areas we want to improve. One can get the impression that the opposition will speed up and will do more of what the red-green government does. But that's not right. The big difference lies in how the opposition and position want to finance actions, and how we think about distribution. ‘The devil is in the details’. They do not appear so clearly in a rhetoric about getting warmer and greener or more solidarity – or ‘new solidarity’, as the Left’s parliamentary leader expressed it. What and how is important. It's hard to see the details, but they're important for the result. It goes pretty much so that business here on the mountain sucks. Our management of our natural resources and the values we derive from them has given us priority in a very demanding situation elsewhere in the world – not just in the EU, which is our largest trading partner. There are many of us who are happy that we won the right to maritime tenacity, but we are not at all happy to get right that the establishment of a single currency on the premises on which it was based could be a problem. Norway is a small country in the world and thus has a limited market. Sickness if the Centre Party is against EU membership, we are not against interaction with the outside world. It is necessary for us to create further growth and development. If we are to create further growth and development, there must be some prerequisites. The main premise is about us – we as human beings – and the interaction between us and a still red-green government, seafaring. If we are to create further growth and development, we are completely dependent on good knowledge. We have to be able to do what we have to do, as best we can. We have heard today that Norwegian universities do not reach the ranking list of the best universities in the world. I'm not going to go into the reasons for that now, because I'm going to come back to that on a later occasion. But my point today is to talk up and up knowledge in a broad sense and therefore not just academic knowledge. I am delighted that the government will present a big message that will evaluate the promise of knowledge. It has not been erased freely in all areas. Yes, we've got more focus, and we've remedied the decline trend in grades that we've seen before, but there are several goals that we haven't yet achieved. The centre party has always talked about theory and practice hand in hand. Now if we're going to succeed in some way in the future, we have to take seriously that good knowledge isn't just about good academic knowledge. If we are to reach all young people and use all good heads to create growth and development, we need to get the most out of basic training. Then we have to reach as much as possible, so that everyone can know that they can succeed in school. This means, among other things: more flexibility. Before 2009, the Central Party said that we wanted to work to introduce electoral studies in high school. We have made that clear, we are now in the process of introducing an electoral profession. The choice subjects shall be able to deepen both the practical subject and the theory – as a taste, or as a continuous subject for three years. Prior to the introduction of the electoral profession, work-related experiments were started, which are a pre-favour in the professional fields. This has proved to be a very popular subject. It will be exciting to see if this will lead to an increase in the performance of higher education. I look forward to discussing professional subjects in the coming year, until the bigotry message is presented. I hope we get a good and factual discussion, which will serve the students and School Norway. ‘Everything is related to everything’ said a former Prime Minister. That means when we talk about knowledge, we have to talk about both theory and practice. This is not just a professional subject, it is a matter of creating a better relationship between theory and practice in higher education as well. It doesn't just help with knowledge if we don't manage to apply it to anything productive, which will lead to further growth and development. That is why we need to further develop a broad cooperation with the business community. A few days ago we could read that it was not necessarily those with the longest education that started their own business. It's actually a little paradox. Those who have gone a long time at school should have all the prerequisites for doing just that. The question is whether, in time, we expose young people who are going on an academic path to business. I think we still have a challenge to think about interaction across, across theory and practice, but also in the form of cross-disciplinary cooperation. It's about people and human resources used in the best way possible. The centre party shall continue to work to ensure that theory and practice go hand in hand throughout the training cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2173	This debate of the throne has been marked by the fact that we have a government that goes on empty when it comes to innovation and visions. It's not that weird. Seven years in government offices and years of internal fission are good for innovation. It is obvious that the government party has lost the risk of creating new ideas and better solutions. For the right, it's the opposite. We are constantly looking for new ideas and better solutions. We follow what's happening in the research community, in the business world – yes, in the real world. It does not at least show the broad and offensive work that has been done with the new roll-out program, and all the offensive things that have been going on in this Chamber for the last seven years. Norway is a country with great and varied possibilities. Not least, we have large natural resources that we have managed in a good way for decades after cross-political settlement. We have a basis for further growth and progress that perhaps no other country has, because the Nordics are an active race with creativity and work. Just because we have so many possibilities, it becomes absolutely decisive that these possibilities are managed in a forward-looking and resilient way. Right has new ideas and better solutions to highlight Norway's possibilities. To develop and continue a well-being society for all, Norway becomes value creation and better infrastructure important keywords. The action rule states that oil money should be used for research, education, growth-promoting taxation and investment in infrastructure. During the Bondevik II administration, nine out of ten dollars went for these purposes. Under this government, buttons two out of ten dollars go for the same purpose. Right will reverse the use of oil money to trade, knowledge, research and growth-promoting tax havens. We will create security through knowledge and competitiveness, and we will facilitate creativity through new ideas and better solutions. Great values are created throughout Norway. A lot of this happens in the districts. The West Coast is rightly referred to as the Gold Coast. In the north there are exciting things happening before oil and gas. Fisheries and agriculture are also important industries in the district of Norway. Right wants to facilitate greater value creation in all parts of the country, and investment in transport is one of the most important tools we politicians have to achieve this important goal. Right wants to use new ideas and better solutions to speed up road and rail development than is the case today. Right will also have a significant increase in the path to new railway and bus solutions in and around the big cities and priority development of intercity and commuter trains to the big cities. In order to achieve this, there has to be a sharp increase in the licensing of transport, an infrastructure fund for the road and the railways must be established that can stop the large maintenance run, and, not least, it must be through cooperation with private developers through Public Private Cooperation. Right, see OPS as a very important means of achieving the objectives of a strong commitment to the development of transport infrastructure. The many advantages are outweighed by the few disadvantages. The main arguments for OPS are: OPS provides a significantly shorter extension period, often almost halved. It provides optimal project progress and adapts the project to a life-cycle perspective. It gives a coherent expansion of long distances. The OPS provides for the completion of the project in due time and at the agreed price. Development costs are guaranteed, there will be no budgetary burden for the state and taxpayers. OPS presents the competence and flexibility of private developers. One can take greater care and adapt to user requirements. OPS provides incentives for innovation, smart road construction and value maintenance. Operation and maintenance of the road capital is included in the contract. Annual payments to builders for 25 years make the road of high quality throughout the entire period. When, towards the end of the OPS period, the State has to take over the road, we know that it will be in good condition. This is a forward-looking solution. It's common to say that when a social democrat is running out of money, a social democrat is also running out of ideas. We know that Norway never has our richer. Last year's state budget was over 1 000 billion. kr. Nevertheless, we can see that the social democrats and the entire government are lacking in implementing power and vision. I have opted for the Right because we have new ideas and better solutions in many areas of society – including value creation, district policy and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2227	The representative Lødemel called for visions, while the representative Siv Jensen spoke about freedom. Freedom is to be able to choose Spanish cheese, she said. That's how we can have different visions for our political function, because she didn't even talk about what I think is the most important thing: freedom to live in a safe society that's not destroyed by climate change, a society in which we can still experience pristine nature, where we can reap from nature, have the freedom to let the kids go to school without fear of being hit by cars, could breathe in clean air and not get life shortened by emissions from cars. We are now going to start work on implementing the climate communication. Many good political decisions are in place, but the job is not done. Norway is going to start on the road to carbon-neutral society, and we are going to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. within eight years. The transport sector is the main source of emissions. If we are to reduce these, we need a large shift from fossil-fueled cars to more fuel-efficient cars, to zero-emission cars like electric cars, but above all a large shift from car to public transport, especially in urban areas. We've said that before, but now it's absolutely true: the sale of electric cars is taking off. Now they're taking up competition with fossil car models. Norway is the world’s leading electric car country thanks to tax advantages and other benefits that were an important part of the climate agreement. Now people see that an electric car pays off, but unfortunately it's not enough if you're afraid to stand on the road with an empty battery. What is now missing is an infrastructure for charging, so that the electric car can become a fully-fledged alternative even for longer trips. We need a national charging plan to remove the reach of electric cars and all potential electric car buyers. During the session, the size shall deal with the national transport plan. After having been overlooked and failed by varying governments over several years, the railway has now arrived on the agenda and the railway operation has more than doubled. That's something SV is proud of. But it's not enough if we're going to be able to make the railway the preferred option. One thing is to expand capacity for population growth in the East, but, as climate action, the railway only has effect if it also takes shares from those who are travelling by car today. It is necessary to rapidly expand the intercity triangle in the East as a first paragraph of a lightning effort between the regions. If we are to achieve this, we must not just give priority to rail, but we must give priority to rail at the expense of expensive motorways in the Central East. The petroleum sector is the second largest emission sector. In the future, we need to use less fossil fuel. That means that we have to face a future where we are less dependent on oil drilling than today. The tree we see today in oil investments must be managed and dampened, and the growth force must be directed towards sustainable industries. In August this year, the oil directorate presented the report Electrification assessments for the middle North Sea. The report concludes that the use of clean electricity from countries pays off at the CO2 cost agreed in the Climate Change Communication. The Oil Directorate assumes that electricity is available for the 2017 Utsira Height, which in turn requires an investment decision in 2013. This is a decision for the future, because the Johan Sverdrup oil field will have production by 2060. Nevertheless, the work on electrification is in progress. The rights holders Lundin, the Norwegian and Statoil were to provide a study on area electricalisation, but the work was stopped. The companies imagine that the fields Dagny and Ivar Aasen are approved with gas turbines and that a study of power from land comes first in connection with the Johan Sverdrup oil field. We in SV assume that the work with these PUDs adds electricity from start-up. The situation requires political leadership. Oil companies must be clearly informed that the solution to the Utsira Height is a clean flow from land. These are measures that can help cut Norway’s climate emissions up to 2 pst. We heard on the radio today that lifestyle diseases are the main cause of death. We get sick of a society of great differences, where money counts more than pure nature. When we facilitate cycling and walking, it's good for folks. The low-carbon society is a good society for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2253	The speakers of the Right today say that the government does not have the capacity for implementation, last repeated by the representatives Dahl and Lødemel. Although it is repeated in every single post from representatives from the Right the rest of the day and tomorrow, it becomes no more true for that reason. This government has reformed and improved Norway for the better for ordinary people every day since we took over. It is not about – as the representative Dahl claimed – that we have only spent more money for good purposes than the Bondevik government did. It's not just that there's never been so much money spent on the road and the track, on culture or on the municipalities. It's not just about it. It is about major social reforms, it is about the Nav reform, the pension reform, the disability reform, the Cooperation reform, a new and strengthened IA agreement and business simplification. Isn't it the ability to implement? Never before have so many been working in Norway. That's our most important result. After almost eight years of deliberate political and economic governance, active labour market policies and reforms to strengthen the working line, there is a record of work in progress. More people go to work in Norway than anywhere else, and the job we go to is always a good place to be, because this government has also, in addition to getting more people to work, strengthened the professional rights and working environment of people. That's the hop that the right-hand side thinks can't fly, but that we prove flies better than ever. Security for work and security creates freedom. Safe and free people are the key to value creation and growth, creating even more work for more people. The labour force is our most important resource. Managing it wisely is the main task of the government. That is why we will continue to do so, because there are great things to tackle in the Norwegian labour market – obviously. But we're on the right track. The big reforms to get more of them are starting to work. Illness is the lowest now since we started measuring it. We want four new years to keep getting more. The fact that we succeed so well in Norway is not obvious, nor is it, as the representative Solberg said earlier today, the result of a happy situation. No, it's a result of conscious political choices and a long political struggle, and it's due to the Norwegian model of society more than it's caused by oil. The Norwegian model is not – as it sounds on the right-hand side – a menu where you can only pick the dishes you want. No, it's the composition that makes up the cake, and if you take away one or more of the ingredients in the Norwegian model, it doesn't taste that cake as well, and the result is different. Our working life, for example, is characterized by cooperation and mutual respect. Strong work environment laws, trade unions and good tripartite cooperation are a prerequisite for this. There are ingredients that the Right will weaken. We would never have had record jobs if we had not deliberately used the welfare schemes funded by taxes, such as kindergartens, father's allowances and other measures to get women out of work. There are ingredients that the Right will weaken. All this that constitutes the Norwegian model has been conscious and controversial political choices. There have been choices that the right-hand side has contested and continues to attack, somewhat more subtle lately, but behind the rhetoric, the policy is the same, and they're going to pick the elements apart. It has not been given for the future that one of the floor planks in the Norwegian model, the quality of Norwegian employment, will be preserved. No, it still requires political struggle and elections, not just to preserve what we have achieved, but to improve working life in response to new challenges. The Labour Party is looking ahead, and we want to move on to get more of those who are outside today, and that those who want and can do so will contribute further. We'll do more of what we see works. We are committed to ensuring flexibility on the premises of ordinary people, not just for employers, but so that families with children, who have very common jobs and who are struggling to get the cabal of homes and homes and jobs and children and leisure activities to go together, can have flexibility combined with security. They do not ask for solutions on the right side, they do not ask for more temporary employment, more power on the employer's hands, a weakened professional movement and having to negotiate wages alone. They do not ask for fewer measures to combat social dumping; they do not ask for lower sick pay. A working life policy at the intersection Progress Party, Right and Left is bad news for most people. It's not forward-looking, it's backward-looking. The Labour Party will continue. We are the guarantor of a working life policy that combines flexibility with security and that people can recognize.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2272	There has been a recent debate on the establishment of beans in Oslo School. To this end, the Progress Party has today made a proposal inviting the Stortinget to address this issue by saying that there should be no separate room for the exercise of organized religious activity in public schools. I am somewhat surprised at the resistance it has encountered, knowing that when the Progress Party took up the very same issue in Oslo, it received broad support from the Christian People's Party, from the Left, from the Right and not least from the Workers' Party. It is that the school should be primarily a learning and knowledge dissemination arena, but it is also the most important integration arena in Norway. Then I and the Progress Party believe that it is not very beneficial to establish our own rooms for us and other rooms for the others. It does not contribute to the integration, cohesion and building of universal rights in society. It must be an objective that everyone, regardless of social and religious backgrounds, should thrive and experience the security and freedom of religious pressure when going to public school. It is such that the environments that expect prayer or that organize prayer in the field of school may be marked by a lack of respect for some of the values of freedom under which the school has as a social mandate to build up. Thus, they will also be able to exert pressure on their fellow students, fellow students who may be identity-seeking and vulnerable to hunting for their role in Norwegian society. If the Stortinget took a stand, it would also release individual school management against pressure from students and parents to establish their own spaces for one or the other religion. The Vice-President of the Labour Party Libe Rieber-Mohn is wonderfully principled when she among other things. to VG says that Kristin Halvorsen has an unprincipled attitude towards beanrooms in school that can lead to increased differences among Norwegian students. ‘It seems a little thoughtful of Kristin Halvorsen to say that it is the Vice-Chancellors who are responsible for deciding whether or not to be asked in the schools’, says the Vice-President of the Workers’ Party, and I fully agree. But it is not just politicians who have called for a national ban. There have also been several moderate Muslims, including Tina Shagufta Kornmo in the Network for Gender Equality, Integration and Diversity. To the newspaper on September 28th, she says: ‘It’s a paradox if, after working 20-30 years to get Christianity out of the classroom, we were to start making special arrangements for religious groups.’ And she goes on to say, «The environments expected to be quiet or bean are the same as those with a strong internal pressure. It may make it particularly difficult for children in these settings to choose differently from those expected by leaders in these groups. I think this is something that should be clearer at national level." Then I think that when moderate Muslims ask us to do this, the national authorities should deliver on that. Then there's been a lot of fun budget leaks. One of them is that the big investment in school that comes into the budget is investment in cultural schools. One of the five boys out of the tenth grade doesn't read well enough to get through high school – to acquire knowledge on their own after ten years at school. So the answer from the Labour Party and the Red-Green Government is that yes, more people will learn to play the violin. I wish that as many children as possible played the violin. But it's a bigger social problem when one in five boys leaves school without being able to read. I hope that we will give priority to continuing education for teachers and principals rather than cultural schools when we are going to bet on school the next year. Finally, I would like to point out that it has just been published that the best Norwegian university is at 202nd place internationally. One way has passed after the red-greens took over – downhill. The press release from Kristin Halvorsen and the Ministry of Knowledge is that now it is going very well. I can guarantee that a blue government in October 2013 will have higher ambitions for higher education and research than coming to 202nd place, turned off by Finland, Denmark and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2300	To the previous speaker, I can say that there is a great distance between the Christian People's Party's understanding of the place of faith in society, including the Oslo Christian People's Party, and the attitude expressed in his articles. I will come back to that in a later article. There are many themes that are involved in today's debate so far. It's time to ask the question: Who needs our attention most? Most people in Norway are doing well. The most important task of policy is to safeguard the interests of those who need it the most. Ensuring young people’s interest and rights and opportunities for safe growth is therefore one of our main tasks. A link is not stronger than its weakest link. What's good for the kids is good for the community. We have health centres, schools and kindergartens. We have child protection, police and the state of law. Nevertheless, no young person manages with only public agencies and services. Without the parents who take responsibility and care, kids actually get permanent injuries and can't live a safe and healthy life. Therefore, it is to facilitate that parents can do their job as parents, a cornerstone in the construction of a warmer society. I want to take the opportunity to give a tribute to Norwegian parents. They do a fantastic job in a busy everyday life, with follow-up and pick-up in kindergarten, follow-up lessons and parents' meetings, volunteering as leaders and trainers in sports, choirs and other offers for the kids. We have a government that is constantly expressing distrust to the parents, and is tightening up on the parents' terms. We need a government that gives parents more trust, freedom of choice and more time to do the most important job that exists. Sometimes the parents don't do the task, and the kids suffer from care failure. A good family policy means a good child protection where young people who need a new home do not have to be put in line. Modern family life is lived in many ways. Some couples don't have the power to live together, and many also live in a everyday life with mine, yours, and our kids. I want to take the opportunity to give a tribute to all the thousands of parents who in new family patterns do their best to give the kids a good and safe everyday life. One of the most important developments in the modern family and one of the most important contributions to a warmer society is that men are increasingly addressing their young, whether they live with the young or not. Once upon a time, if mother and father separated layers, father disappeared from the picture. Today we take responsibility in any case, in our lives and outside our lives. The responsibility follows us in any case. Those who put kids into the world are responsible. In modern family life, therefore, biology is more important to parents. Liability follows the ovary and sperm. That's exactly why it's called mine, yours, and our kids. This is the modern family, and it's good for the kids. It provides safety and predictability in an sometimes unstable everyday life. That's why it's not true when the Workers' Party claims that the biological parent means less than before. That's why it's turning the clock back – an old-fashioned thinking – when the Workers' Party's big group advises the government to introduce assisted fertilization for lonely, because in 2012 we know that the kids need dad. That's why it's a deception to claim that the kids don't need to know, and then I mean knowing, their biological origin, and that's why it's an expression of the fight for the strongest right when you claim that egg donation, and thus a ambiguous mother concept, is a question of non-discrimination for adults and does not challenge the interests and needs of kids. These proposals are in the interest of some selected adults, not young people. They are contrary to the new family patterns and the way parents think in 2012. It means turning the clock back ten years in the view of men and fatherly responsibility. It's immature, and it's a step towards a colder society. A link is not stronger than its weakest link. Most of us are doing our own thing. The policy is to secure these weakest links. It's putting the kids first, and it's putting the community in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2326	The working party can look back with satisfaction on the results achieved in the municipal sector over the last seven years. The sector has been allocated about 60 billion. kr. That's an amazing amount of money. This sum has given many new kindergartens, many new nursing or nursing places, more teachers, nurses and preschool teachers, to mention something. The red-green government has provided a formidable growth in employment in the municipal sector from 2005 to 2011 of 14.3 p.m. – from 446 000 to 510000 persons. This means that welfare is increasingly produced in Norwegian municipalities. This has been possible precisely because the government has prioritised the local economy. The aim of the Workers' Party for the municipal sector is to enable all municipalities to provide modern and safe, good-quality welfare services to their inhabitants and to offer the most comparable services throughout the country, both in large and small municipalities. It will create security and freedom, and it will give all municipalities further development opportunities. We have carried out major reforms over these seven years. Full child care coverage and cooperation reform are examples of the major and important interventions taken. No one should claim that this government has not had visions and implemented changes. But we also have goals for the future. Good municipal services must be ensured through a sound and secure local economy. There is a need for more sick homes and lucky day care places in municipalities to meet the older part of the population’s needs. As far as possible, the elderly shall be provided with the assistance they need as much as possible where they live. We have adopted a guarantee of dignity for the elderly, but the implementation of it requires accessible spaces and good offers. These are the tasks of the municipalities, but they must, in close cooperation with the government, secure and predictable financing of this important offer. Municipal Norway should provide better service to its citizens by being even more accessible online. The government will be committed to developing digital services, so that, for example, applications can be submitted online and subject to rapid procedure. We need to improve, strengthen and renew public administration – this is in order to improve the provision of services to citizens in the country, to carry out tasks even better, and to improve the quality of services. There is a relatively broad political consensus on the use of money in the municipal sector. The right-hand framework for the local economy is the same as that of the government parties and governments. Nevertheless, there is a big difference between how the Right Party and the Government Party want to distribute the funds. On the right, the tax revenue will be redistributed to high-tax municipalities. That means that those who have little get even less, and those who have much, get to keep more of their own tax revenue. Nine out of ten municipalities in the country will lose sight of the proposal that has been repeated by the Right in the treatment of three municipalities. In my own state of Finnmark, 19 out of 19 municipalities will lose. It would hardly be fun to be the Right-Rapporteur in Finnmark and defend the loss of 62 million. kr to municipal welfare in the county. One of the sure prospects is that Norway will grow in terms of population. It's extremely positive, but that means that we have to take into account growth, especially in the largest cities. The working party will focus on following growth by means, so that we can maintain quality good services. We will continue to increase employment, both in the public and private sectors. We will pursue a red-green policy that creates activity and new annual work in schools, kindergartens, care for the elderly and other welfare areas. We want the most equivalent society where differences are balanced, not increasing. That means we have to look at public offers. We need to integrate new countrymen, and we need to use the entire country's resources. That's how we're going to build the country. The Honorary Word has been effective today. We have completed, we must continue to implement – with force.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2348	In 2005, according to Arne Strand de red-green “came to the deck table”. Since then, the government has had 257 billion. kr more to walk with. We still have major unresolved problems, with long-term health cows, mediocre school results and too little road construction. In today's debate, I have tried to get answers to how these problems should be solved by the current government, but I hear none of the Labour Party representatives who are once trying to answer. We have to take Norway away from the problems we have known for too long. That's why we believe in a spread of power in the Right. Power has to be moved from directorates and county municipalities to the municipalities where people live. The family and the individual will gain more power and meet a more open and simpler society. Right will create safe jobs by facilitating the back pocket of enterprises operating from Norway, better roads, lower taxes and less bureaucracy, more research and innovation. Right-wing people want quality and diversity in health services. For us, it is more important that patients receive a good offer quickly than that only public employees should do the job, and that the wallet should decide when and where to get help. When the Labour Party says that school policy will decide the elections in 2013, it's good news for us in the Right, because the voters don't measure what we're talking about in a election fight, but what we're doing between elections. For many years, the right has systematically prioritised school investment, because we know that knowledge is a prerequisite for solving the problems facing Norway. For my 6-year-old and all the other 60,000 expectant kids who started school in the fall, the coincidences should not determine whether they get a good or a bad teacher. Fortunately, we have many great teachers, but we need even more. The best teachers are going back to the classroom, because we know what's most important to create a school with opportunities for everyone: it's the teacher. If all students are to be met by a highly professional teacher, we need to strengthen the competence of the teachers. Right is concerned about the very most vulnerable kids in our society — the kids who don't go on a torch, the kids who are subjected to violence and abuse. All kids have the right to a safe and healthy upbringing. Unfortunately, our safety net still has too many and too many holes. Right will strengthen the legal certainty of young people. This is why we propose to strengthen skills, among other things. in nursery workers, so that exposed children are caught earlier. In child protection, ideology has to be sidelined, so that the closure of institutions is halted when foster home provision is not sufficient, and that the help to the young people who need it most is based on quality and competence rather than ideology, as it is today. After almost eight years of red-green rule, Norway is on top of the outside. 600,000 receive health-related benefits and are out of work in Norway. We see a strong increase in the number of young disabled people. Only in one year, from March last year to March this year, the number of people under 30 increased by a total of 10 pst. From a government that says it will protect the most vulnerable among us, this is not something it can be particularly proud of. There is a long way between life and learning in the Workers' Party these days. While the government and Trond Giske have repeatedly been hard on top management wages in state companies going down, they're doing the opposite in real life. Because when the Minister of Industry's long-term, close friend and new Entra Director gets about 4 million. kr in salary – 4 million. kr paid by taxpayers – do not sound the concepts of community and solidarity as well. The working party is itself equal. Private operators shall be taken and suspected, while close friends in state companies shall be protected. I would like the government to spend time talking about why people are going to give them new trust for four new years, rather than double communication and predictable attacks on the opposition. In the Right we have new ideas, and we have better solutions for the future. We have a policy that will change Norway and make everyday life easier for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2369	The core of the government's political project is to support a society of small differences, where people experience security, participation and belonging in small and large communities. This requires a well-functioning justice policy. Individuals, businesses, volunteering and the public are dependent on good legal framework conditions. Legal certainty is essential for security. An accessible and visible police force, working in a targeted and strategic way to prevent crime and cooperating well with other relevant actors, contributes to increasing the security of society. Good investigation and criminal proceedings characterise our country of law. Punishment that both emphasises social protection and seeks to bring convictions into a crime-free life also contributes to increased security. This big session will also be marked by the terrorist acts of 22 July 2011. The government continues its efforts to strengthen social security and preparedness, based on the societal risk and threat picture. We will strengthen the analytical work to provide the best possible basis for action. We will strengthen cross-sectoral cooperation. Improved planning, more practice and increased supervision and control will enable us to better prevent and strengthen our crisis management capability. In order to achieve the objective of a safer society for all, social security needs to be integrated into all parts of society. We will follow up the report of the 22nd July Commission by submitting a notification to the Stortinget. It is planned to be promoted during the first quarter of 2013. The notification will provide a review and assessment of all Commission recommendations. It shall also be seen in the context of the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the presentations held in Stortinget on 28 August, and shall build on the position of the Special Committee, adopted at Stortinget on 8 March. The Social Security Communication presented in June of this year is also central to strengthening social security and preparedness. The government is placing targeted and long-term emphasis on new capacities. A 24-hour situation centre has already been established in the Ministry of Justice and Defence to help strengthen the government’s crisis management capacity. New life-saving helicopters are scheduled to be ordered next year. We're developing a new security center for the police in Oslo. The establishment of a new emergency network follows the plan Stortinget has laid down, until the country is covered in 2015. The government will renew criminal justice systems and invest continuously in new ICT. As the July 22 Commission points out, however, we cannot allow ourselves out of all the challenges their report has revealed. The lesson — as the Commission sees it — is ‘more about management, interaction, culture and attitudes’. That is why we have launched a change programme in the Ministry of Justice and Defence to strengthen our competence and functioning and thus our crisis management capacity and driving role. This is why police management has also established a wide-ranging change programme. The Police Director has strengthened his leadership team. A new preparedness department has been set up, and he has also decided to set up his own ICT department. The change programme will be closely followed up by the Ministry. The budget management of the Police Directorate will be put at a strategic and overall level, with a focus on clear targets and performance requirements. A good governance dialogue requires good management data and analyses. We will focus on efficient resource use, non-compliance reporting and corrective actions. Good preparedness requires good communication. It requires new ICT solutions and better use of the investment already made in new technologies. We therefore strengthen the building of police competence. There is no ICT in itself if it will provide a better police force. It is the will and ability to use ICT to become better that is crucial. The government will improve the knowledge base on societal threats and vulnerability. Good management and clear control signals are important keywords of increased risk awareness. With experience-based plans for better preparedness, the Ministry of Justice and Defence will respond broadly to the challenges facing us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2397	Then it is opened for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2400	We have heard these words from the Minister of Justice in a number of contexts, and there is no problem in joining the objectives set in the words. But the question is how to get where you want to go. It seems to me that this government is very concerned about preserving, that everything is small and powdered. It seems almost like this government thinks we have such good advice that we don't have to be rational and innovative. Then I think not least that we have 69 alarm centres. Then the Minister of Justice points out that communication and cooperation are important. Then my question is, how does this government intend to get better communication through 69 agencies – 19 on health, 23 on fire and 27 on police? It's time to talk about structure gradually, and I expect that to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2405	We need to talk about structure in time, but the focus on management and communication, as pointed out by the July 22 Commission, is also important for this government. That is why we have launched clear change management programmes to ensure that we both improve preparedness and get a good comprehensive, forward-looking solution for the police in place. As far as communication is concerned, of course, it is not just for good police work, but for good work in the entire justice sector, and we are also proposing a long-term plan, while laying down a good communication and competence development plan to ensure that we also make the best use of today's systems. Good police as close to their audience as possible will be the aim of the work we do, while also being able to effectively address forms of more serious organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2412	From several police districts, I am told that the bet is on standby, a little short, still consists of two things: that it is sent from the POD and the department that the framework is as they are, and it is up to each police officer to find out for himself what kind of preparedness to have. There are simply clear leads on where you want to go, and what you want, and you don't want you to sit on your own and think about what a strengthened readiness means. I'll take an example of this. Yesterday, the Justice Committee visited Vestfold. There you get distributed iPads that are to be used to transfer images and text, and that's good. Three weeks ago, I was in another police district. There, the iPad system has been terminated because it was not safe enough. Then my question is, what could be the reason for having two widely differing privacy considerations in two different police districts that are in the same country? Does the Council have any idea whether this is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2419	It is not at all satisfactory that we do not have a long-term, good plan to invest in ICT in the police. It is also not satisfactory that today we have to find that we do not have the competence to use the equipment we have, in a good enough way. The importance of privacy needs to be very central, but we need to improve the use of technology in terms of efficient working processes and thus better use of the resources that we have already allocated to this sector. At the same time, it is important for the government also to invest in new capacities to ensure better preparedness, and I note that today's police management emphasises both that preparedness has been improved and that they took immediate action when the report of the 22nd July Commission was on the table. Many measures have therefore already been taken locally to improve local preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2424	On 28 August in this Chamber, Minister of Justice Grete Faremo held a very good report after the 22nd of July Commission. Among other things, he said: the Council of State that they will follow up the Commission's report and that it would ensure that all relevant departments would follow up with clear priorities and clear objectives in their own report which would be ready on 1 October. Now we're over October 1st, and my question is, are these reports from the different departments in place? And how do the Councils assess the different follow-up from the different departments? What we have seen is that the government has shown the ability to see the seriousness of the situation, but does it also intend to follow up with its own actions, which are absolutely necessary in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2429	It is quite right, as the representative Hareide points out, that each department had an obligation, even on the instructions of the Prime Minister, to report to the Ministry of Justice and Defence by this deadline, and it is therefore important that we now prepare the reports that have been received. As part of our driving role, we also took our own meeting to ensure a good basis for these reports, and we will follow up on both how the totality looks and measures it triggers need, in the forthcoming communication to be submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2434	Yesterday, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Defence and the police director were at the opening of the study on national preparedness and crisis management. Then the Minister of Justice said in his opening: «... July 22nd was the story of the resources that did not find each other. That story cannot repeat itself, and we must learn from what has not worked well enough." The target group for this course is, according to the Police College's websites, heads of defence and police. But according to Dagsrevyen, only one of 27 police officers was registered. Does the Council of State think that it harmonizes with drawing lessons from what did not work well enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2444	As I said yesterday, I think this course is very important, and we have got a good start. There were some of today's leaders in charge of crisis management in their police districts present. It was also a set of tomorrow's leaders. There were more people who wanted to participate than those who got space. I think we have got a good start that we should still work hard to ensure that we also get better in the future. And I expect those who are now participating will also be able to be good ambassadors in their district. The participation of police officer Aas from Finnmark may well be explained by the fact that in a small police district with large geography and fewer employees, the police officer is quite central. In other, larger districts that are organised differently, it may be right that it was the head of staff or the head of other units that participated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2450	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2453	When we presented the position of the 22nd of July committee at the end of February this year, we from all parties praised each other for having developed a good and real cooperation. We listened carefully to each other, went thoroughly into each other's proposals and then put a much overall attitude. We lived up to the situation and the country demanded of us and avoided anyone trying to knock political coins on the cruel act of terror. There were 14 important, unanimous decision-making points and many other things in the position that we agreed on. Some of the points here will be followed up in the government budget on Monday. Many of them have to be followed up in the Gjørv Commission’s report and the police performance reform. Some of them will become their own legal acts, such as: is about the prevention of solo terrorism, which was sent out at the hearing this summer. Some of the points of the 22 July Stortinget Committee have been implemented or are in the process of being implemented, such as: improved helicopter preparedness with large military helicopters on standby in Back in order to be able to transport the emergency response force around the country in case of emergency. There's a new police helicopter in Oslo with the crew in place from 1 September. The instructions for rescue helicopters around the country have been changed to give priority to transporting police emergency services in the event of sharp emergency situations. We have received a better assistance guide for the interaction between police and defence, and we have also implemented what the Stortinget asked for: an external evaluation of resources and competences in the PST. The PST has also been given new resources to work online in order to follow up on violent extremists there. The national alarm system has been tested and monitored in a completely new way so that it works, and the capacity of 112 numbers and the ability of the operating centres to receive telephones has been upgraded. This is just a small selection of things that have already been made from the 22nd of July committee. Then we agreed that the most important thing to do had to be based on the report from the Gjørv Commission, which came just two months ago. In that case, it is not going to be constructive to establish with a broad pen that nothing has happened to the preparedness in Norway since 22 July, as it was said earlier this week and as has also been pointed out in the debate today. We're not saying it's all right, and we have a big job to do in the future. But when the government finally – after eleven years of numerous investigations of land selections, after much criticism of indecision and after the July 22 Committee had asked for progress on the matter – decides on where to build the new national emergency centre, it will be especially important to hear representatives from the party that today is calling for implementation, asking for new investigations of several alternatives further from Oslo. It also reveals that they have not come to realize that the rescue team must keep to the nearest possible central Oslo where it is used 24 hours a day, and where the seconds count when it moves out in sharp situations. One should at all be more reluctant to take it for an adequate proof of truth when PF officers in 21 police districts say that preparedness has not improved since July 22 and refers to different resource and allocation issues. For what is at the heart of the Gjørv Commission, to which all parties here on the Stortinget say that they join, is that it is not primarily about resources that we also need more gradually, but about other and more fundamental changes in attitudes, leadership and cultures. In this case, we should support all the police officers who, as the justice department also heard during yesterday's visit to the Vestfold police district, take their lead responsibility, study the Gjørv Commission and implement concrete local measures, such as: improved alert procedures for all crews, improved operational centres with greater capacity and enhanced procedures to avoid fatal errors such as on 22 July. They provide better training facilities for crews to be used in the most acute situations, and better interaction procedures and coordination with emergency facilities, HV, defence and civil defence. Fortunately, there are very many positive forces in the police that take on board the Gjørv Commission's criticism of the weak management and enforcement of the deepest seriousness and that precisely look at what they themselves can do – and must do – without simply asking for increased appropriations and resources. Then it also makes it easier for us here at Stortinget to solve this last, when we know that we have a management and a culture in the police where you want to use new resources well. That is what the reform of results must be about. I look forward to a good and broad cooperation between all parties on the Stortinget – in the spirit of the July 22 Committee – also when we discuss in this session how to build better preparedness, security and security in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2466	Today, we are discussing the throne and the government's goal in the coming year. In the field of transport, there were not many sentences about what the government will be investing in the coming year – only two lines and four numbers: one year. I record that the government of its throne in the last year of the period has chosen to take out a whole sentence that the government, through the follow-up to the National Transport Plan, will work to achieve the goal of a safe and environmentally friendly transport system that is accessible to all. So it was taken out of the throne. It is impossible to understand it in any other way than that the government has reduced the ambitions of its transport policy in 2013. Earlier today, we heard the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, boast of the government's executive capacity. It was interesting today to see in the VG and a number of other media that the railway works will spend eight years planning and building a 10 km long route from the Bay of Sand north of Moss to Såstad in Rygge. A little comfort is that the distance gets double tracks all the way. At least this may not be a good example of implementation. But it may be in the world of the red-green government. For the Progress Party, it is important to ensure that people have the freedom to choose where they want to live — or to set up businesses in our country. If we are to ensure that, it is absolutely essential that the Storting adopts a far more ambitious transport policy than the government stands for. The development of the rail network and the provision of collective services in and around the major cities is important. Because the growth is happening at such a fast pace, we can't afford to wait many years before we build an intercity triangle between the Ski and Oslo, Halden and Lillehammer or around the big cities of Bergen and Stavanger. We have to get started immediately, and that means we have to show action now. For this reason, the Progress Party today proposes that we establish a state-owned railway undertaking which is given capital and which can ensure that the development of the railway system is phased out at a much greater pace than is currently being done. The Progress Party also believes that roads need to be developed and upgraded at a much greater pace than what is being done today. There are still sections on the E18 between the Swedish border and Kristiansand in the south that are not built with proper standards. The E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger and on to Trondheim screams to be upgraded and built up. Furthermore, there is a great need for investment in E6 from Eastfold and beyond across the country. With today's appropriations it will take decades before these roads are built to a real standard – despite the fact that we know that many of these routes are very dangerous to traffic, and there are huge accidents. In addition, we know that not building roads and railways costs society billions of dollars every year in accidents, queues and other challenges to business. It is money that we in the Progress Party believe should have been used to secure the offer to the residents rather than to pay this other. The Progress Party therefore proposes that we establish a state-owned company, the Riksvei SF, which is given capital and which can ensure that roads are built up at a much higher pace than the government is doing today. We need to ensure that the development of a safe and sound road network with real capacity is rapidly developed between all the major cities in Norway, while road networks throughout the country need to be upgraded much faster than is the case today. Now, when we repeatedly get evidence that bad roads cost society billions every year in terms of accident costs and cows, it's almost incredible that the parties Labour Party, SV and the Center Party don't see that building infrastructure is the best thing we can do now. When the government all the time claims that it is doing so much on transportation, at least it is not the feedback I received when I asked for input into things I should be taking up in this persuasion debate. On the contrary, there has been an intervention on roads and challenges across the country, taxes and tolls, which people are concerned about and hope we can do something about. No one boasts about the government's efforts. Finally, I just want to point out that instead of losing money on not upgrading the road and rail networks, the Progress Party will use the money to expand the infrastructure now, and use the savings that this brings in the future, to provide people with proper education, health care and other important services. It is to conduct economically sound policies. I would also like to say that the Progress Party is going to support the Left's proposal to get a proper supply of the intercity triangle between Halden, Skien and Lillehammer, which is very important – because the population growth is already here. We don't have time to wait to get started with the large-scale expansion of the intercity triangle. But we also have to do the same on the road network, and that is why we are proposing two state-owned companies that are given power and are being invested in capital, just to make a proper infrastructure development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2483	Today's students are Norway's future, and Audun Lysbakken's great representative is obviously a substitute for the Minister of Knowledge in today's debate. He spoke hotly about red-green results in school policy. But what Lysbakken cannot have read is the research report on the reproduction of social differences in Norwegian school, on large gender differences, on boys falling away. Nor did the light box comment that one third of the 10th grade of the year went out of school with the grade 1 or 2 in the math exam. Nor is it explained in Lightbakken's post that even though the girls read a little better on the last PISA report, one in five boys still leave the school without being able to read properly. Thousands of young people will also judge this fall after all to lack a course with the consequences it can have for what they would have liked. There is still much that can and needs to be improved in Norwegian school, and the Right has both new ideas and better solutions in school policy. What many voters are now obviously asking is what the majority government is going to do in the 12-year education policy, which it has not been able to implement in eight years. A good education system that puts the student and the student at the centre is the best investment Norway can make in order for generations after us to be able to fulfill their dreams. The right goal is to create a world-class school and build university environments at the top of the world, because this will be the best assurance that we will manage to get the skills and innovation we need as a nation. The choice in a few years is about still red-green control or new ideas and better solutions with the Right. In education policy, we can actually now talk about seven lost years after four Swedish government councils in the Ministry of Knowledge, because the government has not put enough effort into the most important thing, namely the teacher. The drop-out rates in secondary education are a serious social problem, and the Right calls for more binding measures by the Government. In the winter of 2010, the Right promoted a number of proposals for a professional lift without the support of the government. When thousands of young people fail to complete their vocational letters, it is a great downfall for each of them, and very serious for society that is thus missing out on valuable labour. Today, the Right Government challenges and presents new proposals for action to provide more young people with more relevant and committed vocational training and motivates them to complete secondary education. When old solutions don't work well enough, Right will bet on new ideas and better solutions. A few weeks ago, I visited Stangnes 8-13, a new secondary school in Harstad, where struggling students can get more adapted training without a simple decision on special education with the stigmatisation that often comes with it. I met students who were flourishing and who had been given new school motivation. The right is concerned that all students need better adapted training and have in several contexts proposed attempts to move the PP service closer to the class, but without receiving a response from the government. The right considers that the delegation of powers to schools can make more early efforts and a better adapted school. And the Right wants to divert resources from the PP service to early work in the classroom with guidance from specialist educators. This way, the Right will reduce the need for special education, maintain large resources in the classroom and create a win-win situation for all students. The good teacher is the way to increased quality in school. It is then discouraging to record that the government has not been able to give priority to the first priority; a reform for the country's teacher's corps. The government's efforts are out of proportion to the need and the significance of research so clearly determines that teachers have competence. The right is on a collision course with the government that will not impose competence requirements on current teachers, but only for the teachers who are trained below. The consequence of this will be that it will take between 30 and 40 years for all Norwegian students to be assured to meet a teacher with the necessary professional immersion in their education. It's unacceptable. Norway has the prerequisites for investing in education and research in other countries that can only envy us. It is not a good thing when Norwegian universities fall below 200th place in international rankings, and when our research efforts are far below the statistics and behind European countries in crisis. The right, therefore, wonders how the government can explain and defend such efforts in the field of knowledge and research policy. The truth is that research efforts are disproportionate to neither financial capacity nor the need for innovation and innovation. No, the government lacks implementation in one of the most central areas for building and security of well-being in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2518	One of the things that I think is very important, and that I think a lot of schoolchildren seem to be very important, is of course getting good education at school. But it's also to be able to get the opportunity to go to school in a new school building, which is modern, where it's possible to breathe without having to be afraid of having rock lung or other diseases. In Trondheim, the Workers' Party took over in 2003. That's 1 million. kr every day to rust up the schools. In the right, you've clearly seen that lowvo is the solution. The right-wing van in Bergen is clearly what is to be highlighted, and was highlighted as a success by the Right-wing leader here earlier in the debate today. Isn't it time that the Right also takes responsibility where you are responsible, and does something for the indoor climate, and does something about the health situation of Norwegian schoolchildren?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2527	The right recognizes the importance of a good climate and good school construction. This is why the Right in many municipalities – as in Oslo – has invested billions in rehabilitating building mass. Today, in Norway, we may have more modern schools and newly built schools than we have ever had. In this case, Bergen and this low-level team, I have actually checked it out a little bit during the day, since it has become a big topic. Because it is the parents and the students themselves who have chosen a low - paying solution rather than a busing to a school that was a long way away. If I'm going to interpret the representative Wickholm right here, I might have to ask the question back: does he think that you should start busing to a school further away, when it's the parents and the students who have found out that such an outdoor school solution to Christmas can be acceptable until you move into a new school building?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2534	The representative of Wickholm probably believes that one should never put oneself in that situation in the first place, and that one should have been a leader, instead of being quick-witted, to be brilliantly satisfied with low feed under the pretext that it would be the students and the parents themselves, rather than to be busied far. Right here explains faster than they can think, I think. It is very frightening for me to see the Right rapporteur in Bergen bowls in champagne because the property tax is buried and culled with it, while the school buildings fall down and the walls fall down. The government has produced results - the government has made sure that the PISA results go up for the first time. We have made sure that we no longer argue with Norwegian teachers as Kristin Clement and Elisabeth Aspaker did, and we have given several hours in math, Norwegian and English. Not only do we take knowledge seriously, we also take the buildings seriously. It might seem that the right doesn't do any of the parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2546	Now I think the representative of Wickholm is going to take it easy, and then he's going to look at what kind of reactions Norwegian teachers have made in recent times with regard to the liftings that the government is now serving in terms of teaching standards and continuing education, which are out of proportion to the need that is absolutely with Norwegian teachers. In fact, even though the municipality of Bergen has not done a good job in terms of the school buildings, last year the government was actually elected to the silver plaza in the Norwegian Championship in order to achieve good results and to be a good school owner. So I can agree that the job of being a good school owner is not done until all the buildings are good, but the truth is that Bergen delivers very good results, and was actually the best of the big cities of primary school results this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2553	It is very nice to be in the silver field in terms of results, but it is that it is TV 2, it is Bergen Arbeiderparti and it is Focus that has done a digging job to find out that the Bergen schools are too bad, which the councils should have known for themselves and should have taken care of without the media putting the search light on it. So, of course, it's nice to hear that the Right now recognizes that it's important, but you also have the same situation in Oslo. At Årvoll at the bottom of the Grorud Valley they have a wreck that they have used for over 50 years, with terrible indoor climate. Right here has a lot of old sins to deal with. For once, you can go a little by yourself and admit that this was not good enough, and stop pointing at the government – because we actually depend on having responsible politicians out there, who make sure that the kids get a respectable learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2561	Let there be no doubt that for the Right, school is one of the most important policy areas. It is also one of the most important policy areas for Right-wing School Policymakers across the country. Therefore, maximum effort is made in municipalities and counties. You get to the department, you make applications for trials and you try to get rid of the dropout in higher education, etc. So there is no doubt that right-wing local politicians around do a sovereign job to raise the performance of students in Norwegian primary schools where they are responsible. But I want to challenge Truls Wickholm to go home and see that in that quite country he will certainly also find workers' party municipalities that do not have a 100 percent path clean. I'm actually going to challenge him to say that it's also a responsibility for the government to provide supervision, and make sure that all students in Norway are guaranteed an equivalent and good school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2568	Then the challenge is given.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2571	Elisabeth Aspaker is very good at black paint. It shall have Aspacer – none above, hardly anyone next to it. To continue perhaps ironically: if the concern is the reproduction of social differences, it is mildly an original solution to go in order for us to separate the student group in private schools and public schools, and an even more original solution that we should take out the so-called nicest possible early and give them their own education, and then the rest should be left in their own classes. At least it's not professionals who support that way of doing it. But my question goes to an article that has previously been made by Tord Lien from the Progress Party, i.e. The most important cooperation party in the right, where he almost rallied over the community's commitment to cultural schools. Because art, culture and aesthetics are a disturbing element into school day, we got to know. Schools shall only be used for reading, writing and calculating. Share that right-hand view? In that case, it's pretty original relative to the input we get from, for example. business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2580	The right is concerned that we're going to have a school that develops the whole human being, as it says in the general part of the curriculum of the Knowledge Lift. That means we're going to have a variety of subjects, and we're going to have a variety of skills that we're going to train. But when Aksel Hagen now makes it a point that the Right wants a segregated school, we've never said that. On the contrary, this government has made sure that we have a segregated school with 5,000 students who are left in other measures for which the government and the Minister of Knowledge will not now answer, either where they are, what kind of offers they are given or who are actually responsible for the training of these students. I think that's very worrying. With regard to ensuring good pupils: the right is concerned that all pupils attending public schools will meet a customized education. But Aksel Hagen and the Minister of Knowledge are also concerned that students who have the prerequisites for it will have the opportunity to take a course in step over the stage they themselves are going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2589	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2592	For the Workers' Party, housing is one of the main pillars of welfare policy, Work for everyone, the right to education, help when you need it together with the possibility of a good housing, is the platform on which we build and develop the welfare society. Let me say first of all: Norwegian housing policy has been essentially successful. Most people live well in Norway. Let me mention two key characteristics of the Norwegian housing policy. Firstly, it is a political objective that as much as possible should be able to own their own housing – what we choose to call the ownership line. The advantages of the ownership line are several – they are both social and economic benefits. And we did that. Nearly eight out of ten households in Norway own their own dwelling. Secondly, we have very high housing standards in Norway. We have both liberal dwellings and high standards of living. In 1985, the area of residence per person was about 40 square feet [40 sq m], rising to 54 square feet [54 sq m], an increase of nearly 40 p.c., in 2006. The proportion of dwellings with at least two bathrooms has increased – a clear indicator of a standard lift. However, while much is good, there is no reason to suggest that there are also enough challenges in the Norwegian housing market. Population growth, purchasing power, good access to credit and reduced construction have given rise to higher housing prices. It has become more difficult to establish and reason to fear that more people may have an unacceptable housing situation. In addition, many have taken on large mortgages. The OECD has pointed out that Norwegian households are vulnerable to small interest rate fluctuations. The home bank is today the most important housing policy tool we have. The government has increased the housing support so that 50,000 new households may be eligible for support. Starting loans are granted to more young people and disadvantaged people than before, so it is also announced that the framework for the House Bank will be increased by 5 billion. kr for 2012. The Labour Party believes that the start-up loan is important for very many people – it is a help to get into the owner-occupancy. The main political challenge is as simple as it is: building more dwellings. Neither tax cuts nor tax cuts give more people a place to live. There are no shortcuts. The most important thing about housing policy is that it ensures the provision of housing. The annual demand for new dwellings is estimated to be approximately 38 000. In 2010, it was built at 21 000, and in 2011 the figure was 28 000. Building more is good. But not enough homes are built. While Norwegian industry has otherwise become more and more productive, the curves for the construction industry point downwards. Falling productivity creates unnecessarily high construction costs. For industry and housing buyers, there is a trend that needs to be reversed. Giving everything to the market is a prescription that does not work, even in this sector. In addition, housing policy has not received the necessary attention, either here at Stortinget or in the municipalities. I heard the representative Erna Solberg asking for new and effective methods of building in the future, but I have not heard any concrete proposals from the Right. What we hear from proposals from the Right is more of the same medicine that does not work – more liberalisation and less regulation. The most concrete measures are even less tax for those who have the most — and who can save the most. In addition, we hear about the reduction of the right of objection. But the right has not said anything about what reasons you should not be able to object to. Is it the road safety that the big community is not going to be able to object to, is it the cultural memories that are going to go away or are there other things? The right has run Oslo for many years and is responsible for a faulty housing policy in the capital. In the residential area, the Right is not an opposition party. The party is responsible for municipal housing, regulation plans, building management and land policy in many of the municipalities where the challenges are greatest. On Fornebu, Bærum Right has prevented the expansion of several thousand dwellings. The state can do a lot, but the municipalities have to take their share of the responsibility. In Oslo, the Right shows its true housing policy – a policy that does not work. There are no new ideas and solutions, as the representative Solberg and others from the Right have promised today. It's just recycling old-fashioned, civil policy. Housing policy is part of the broad welfare policy, and housing is a political responsibility. The government has notified a housing report, and in this we will clarify how we take political responsibility. In Norway, everyone should be able to live well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2620	Last year at this time, the Siv Jensen debate of the Progress Party summed up saying that I got it to be heard as if the fish in the sea were better off with a red-green government. I'm not hiding that I was tempted to believe it, because the future looks very bright for this industry. Demand for Norwegian seafood is high, while new research will form the basis for new products and the development of new industries. According to a recent report, the Norwegian maritime food industry can have a turnover value of 550 billion. NOK in 2050. It's a six-fold from 2010. If we continue to manage our seas sustainably, the seafood industry will be crucial for the Norwegian economy in the future. But to achieve this goal, I am sure that the fishing industry is best served with red-green policy. For three years, the Right has traveled around and twice communicated its policy on fisheries and agriculture, pretending to be engaged in employment and settlement along the coast and in the districts. This has now changed. In its programme proposal, the right has really set the direction for the Party's fisheries policy. And let there be no doubt: in the fisheries policy there is now a clear distinction between the Labour Party and the right. The right-hand proposal will involve a dramatic change, which is not good for the coast. Firstly, the Right wishes to amend the Raw Fish Act in order to ensure the right to individual contracts for the supply of fish between the buyer and the seller. I know that there are today such agreements, but they are within the framework of the Raw Fish Act, with a minimum price at the bottom. There is every reason to believe that the Right does not want such security. The Raw Fish Act has been a decisive factor in the construction of the Norwegian fishing industry until today. In addition, it has been essential to maintain a decentralised settlement along the coast. I am afraid that we are with the Right proposal back to the time when the fisherman has to hold the hat in his hand and negotiate the price and delivery conditions on the kaikant. Secondly, the Right will also amend the Act of Participation, from fishing-riding fishing fleets to anyone who can become the owner and partner of a vessel. This means that the right will depart from the main principle of fisheries policy in Norway: as a general rule, the fishing fleet shall be owned and operated by active fishermen. For the Workers' Party, these two laws are important pillars of fisheries policy and the cornerstone of Norwegian fisheries legislation. The Raw Fish Act guarantees fishermen participation, which contributes to healthy competition, market-right price and equal treatment of fishermen and purchasers. Thirdly, the Right wants to remove the ownership restrictions in the aquaculture industry. No one can currently own more than 25 pst. in this industry. The proposal from the Right will most likely contribute to the fact that in the future we will no longer have a diversity of ownership in this industry that is locally anchored along the coast. The working party will not have such a development. With sustainable management, our marine resources are eternal. The working party is fully aware that the fishing resources belong to the community. We want this industry not only to contribute to high incomes for Norway as a nation, but also to employment and activity along the coast. It is worth noting that it does not appear in one word in the Right’s proposal that the party is concerned that the fishing industry should have an impact on employment and settlement along our coast. Norway is on the threshold of a new garden adventure. The working party shall contribute to this growth with safe economic governance, long-term and sustainable resource management, and we shall continue to pursue an active industrial policy aimed at marine research, aquaculture and bio-prospecting. The changes proposed by the Right will lead to a radical change in Norwegian fisheries policy. The proposal opens up too much of capital and power to control the fishing industry in Norway. The coastal people have no reason to enjoy the proposal. The only people who can be happy are the Progress Party, which has programmed that the liberalisation of Norwegian fisheries policy is too slow.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2643	I intend to raise my eyes a little and actually also talk a little about our own policy – as opposed to the previous speaker. The use of fossil energy sources in machinery, transport and heating represents one of the greatest breakthroughs in human history. Few other factors have contributed more to our development, prosperity and growth. A modern society cannot function without a predictable energy supply. I will go so far as to say that our freedom and security in this way are actually inextricably linked to our access to energy. The Party assumes that Norway is and will continue to be a major producer and exporter of energy — primarily oil and gas. Norway, according to Russia, has Europe’s largest oil and gas resources. In addition, we have large resources in renewable energy, for example. hydropower. The Progress Party will strengthen the Norwegian energy sector. We want to ensure a high activity and a further development of the petroleum industry. In order to ensure continued value creation on the continental shelf from a multi-generation perspective, an active policy must be put in place to prevent production declines and to provide opportunities for making new findings. If new areas of importance are not opened in the coming years, there is a danger that important technology clusters in Norway will become confused, either by being closed down or by being moved to other parts of the world. Once the clusters have weathered, it may be difficult to rebuild them. In that case, technology must be taken from elsewhere in the world. For the Progress Party, job security and continued technological development are important. The North and Arctic regions are also important, and it is estimated that these areas may have as much as one third of the undiscovered resources of oil and gas in the world. The petroleum industry has identified the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja as the most prospective areas on Norwegian soil – where the likelihood of major findings is highest. The resources are so large that they can provide the basis for a field development of a size we haven't seen in Norway in many years and industrial projects in the world-class. Unfortunately, the government has shown little action when it comes to realising the potential of the population in this region. We're still waiting for an impact assessment. In the Progress Party, we believe that the areas that have so far not been available for petroleum activities should be opened gradually and continuously, because it takes a long time from licence allocation to start-up production. The government says that the petroleum policy will facilitate new activity in the north, but at the same time we see paralysis when they are unable to decide on the impact assessment for areas outside the Lofoten, the West and the Senja. Norway has not served, and now that the owners of the Snow White licence have decided to stop work on possible capacity increase in Melkoya, it is even more important to focus on these areas. In the Progress Party, we are calling for a more effective government. We want to open up petroleum activities in all the promising areas outside North Norway, with, of course, strict environmental, safety and preparedness requirements and co-existence with other industries. An impact study on oil and gas activity should be started as soon as possible in the areas of Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II. Large parts of the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja are areas that today face challenges in terms of depopulation and population decline. Reduction in activity and decline in the proportion of economically active is a challenge for wealth development. At the same time, the population of most municipalities in this area is getting older. To reverse this trend, the Progress Party will provide security for new growth and jobs in this region. Norway has built up a welfare country that is completely dependent on the large incomes we have generated through ownership and taxation of the activities on the continental shelf and the ring-fence on land. But it doesn't come of itself. In order for Norway to continue to be a major producer of energy and exporter of the same, we need to further develop and strengthen the Norwegian energy sector. We need a powerful government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2669	The opposition's illiteracy description of the Norwegian health care system characterizes the media image. Either it's too little that happens, or too much, or it's too late or too early. When the Progress Party now proposes to put down a Commission in response to the challenges we know in the Norwegian health service, one can wonder. Our answer is action. We will build on all the good that is happening both in the hospital sector and in the care of the elderly. Then we're going to change what's not working. And we have an answer to how we're going to do it: patients need to feel safe and have confidence in health care. Where necessary, health information shall be available. We want more transparency and better quality and strengthen our efforts to increase patient safety. ICT will make an important difference in ensuring both patient safety and privacy in the health sector. We will continue the renewal of the public sector and continue the innovation initiative on health and care, inter alia. with a focus on competence development, housing policies, facilities, welfare technologies and research. All of this shows that we want to change, we want to improve and we want to renew – now and into the future. Clearly political commitment with three key messages will highlight themes that provide new, better and forward-looking solutions. Again, the key strings are patient safety and quality, ICT and innovation. We have a lot to be proud of. We know that although there is still a lot to deal with, many thousands of health workers do their best every day to heal, care and care and provide a better everyday life for patients and relatives. When the opposition talks down the healthcare system, they also talk down all the employees out there. Errors can happen, and errors happen every day. Being sick is not risk-free. And some mistakes have serious consequences. This is not just about systems, it's about people who are going to perform actions – and people can fail – and it's about disease. Our task is to make sure that the patient is put in the centre, and that we have systems and frameworks that build on the transparency and security that characterize our health care. Our responsibility is to learn from mistakes and avoid damage happening, and always with this in mind: for the benefit of the patient. Therefore, patient safety campaigns, the level of competence, good vocational training and good practices where you know what to do are so important. Every patient injury or unnecessary death is a tragedy, especially for the patient involved or the relative, but it is also a tragedy for the person who makes the mistake. Several studies show that our healthcare system is working well, and it is still improving. In a Lancet study, where 10 hospitals in Norway were involved, we score well on the risk of death during the last 60 days after intervention, from one week in 2011. 28 countries were present, and Norway got the third best result. Although this is a small study, it indicates that we are well placed in this area. OECD figures also show that we are the fourth best on survival in stroke and score the second best on survival in myocardial infarction. Norway also scores well for survival in cervical cancer and is well placed in both colon cancer, endometrial cancer and breast cancer. We have built good and strong environments of competence in Norway that contribute to this. We have a lot to be proud of in the Norwegian health care system. The fact that the waiting time for many treatments is now falling is also a sign that we are on the right track. That's why I think we have good reason to praise our health care system, but that we should still be concerned about all that doesn't work. We show that by taking the responsibility we do, by providing all the big messages that are now coming. That is the responsibility of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2688	Let me start by quoting the introduction to the languages of the throne, where it says: ‘The government’s aim is to give people in Norway freedom and security, freedom to live meaningful lives and security of work [[...]] It also states that Norway has low leave. With respect to reporting, I don't think everyone is familiar with that description. When we look at the situation of people with disabilities in the workplace, over the last two years, we've had 37,000 fewer people with disabilities in the workplace. The decline in employment is greatest for disabled women over 40 years of age. There's been a decline of 7 pst. The government has created a so-called job strategy that should focus more on getting more people with disabilities into work, but since that action plan was put on the table and until today, there have been 16 000 fewer people with disabilities in the workplace. You can then ask questions about the correctness of the measures. However, I would like to commend the government in one area, namely that a new grant will now be introduced to bring disabled people into the labour market. The promotion party already proposed a flexible wage subsidy last year. That this year the government sees that our policy is the right way to get more people with disabilities into working life, I think it's positive, and we want to cooperate with the government about it. But I would also like to make several measures to the government, which can be implemented, and where action can be demonstrated, because the Progress Party is concerned that action is also being taken to get more people into the labour market. Then you have to play more on the team with the reintroduction companies. Then it doesn't matter to build down the number of places, you have to build them up so that you get qualified even more into the workplace. Then you might also have to present a new big message that shows how we're going to use re-introduction in a modern, forward-looking and good way. This is what the government could have started with instead of pushing the problems in front of it. Another central element of this job strategy was to get more young people into the labour market rather than to be dissatisfied. I'm recording that the last figures show that for them under 30 years, the last year has become an increase in the number of disabled persons at 10.7 p.m. For them between 30 and 40 years, the increase has been 12,2 pst. Never before has the increase been greater. For the Progress Party, it is also about taking these young people seriously. It's about realising young people's wishes and a dream of a life full of work, and not labeling them permanently out of work. When we know that 62 pst. Of these young people we are talking about, they suffer from mental illness, and as mental disorders are mild, they should also be met with a stronger and better supply of mental health. I was back in Northern Ireland for a short time, in Salten, and I visited RIBO, who is the only one in the country who is doing that kind of work, with great success. Furthermore, I have visited Rosenborg Ballklub in Trondheim and the project RBK – young at work. There, too, new methods are being used to realize young people's dreams of a life filled with job satisfaction rather than sending them on disability benefits. The Progress Party has also proposed measures such as Tuna. These are simple and clear measures that I hope the government will be able to follow up, as this will give Norwegian youth and disabled people freedom and security to live a meaningful life and security of work. Finally, I note that the government does not say anything about the poverty we have in Norway, but only talks about ‘Norway is at the forefront of the fight against global poverty’, as it says in the census. What about poverty in our own country? What about the 6,000 more children living in poverty? Why is it that there is no greater emphasis on the voluntary nature of the fight against poverty, such as: a greater cooperation with the Marita Foundation, with the Church's City Mission and the Red Cross? No, instead you increase the price of food, which makes it more expensive for the poor. I just register in the end, and note what I said a few years ago: the food chain Kiwi has done more for poverty in this country than the government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2712	After listening to the debate today, it is tempting to ask the opposition to take a tour of Norway rather than travel to Albania to look at the infrastructure. Then they might want to discover how high the activity is across the country. But it obviously requires them to have taken care of some skyscrapers. The opposition has today tried to draw an image of nothing happening. That's wrong. The red-green government is on the way and spends 15 billion. kr more this year on the Road Administration of the State than the previous government. We've tripled the investment on track. We're actually the Nordic country that spends the most money on transportation. Former NHO director John G. Bernander says that this government is the first to meet the assumptions of NTP, an NTP that represents a historical investment. Recently opened the Kviv road, which is an important section along the E39. The journey time between Indre Nordfjord and Sunnmøre is shortened by 50 minutes. On 19 September, the Minister of Transport launched the first dynamite ointment in the construction of a new double track between the Farriseidet and Porsgrund. The 25-year match is over, and the travel time between Larvik and Porsgrund is shortened to 12 minutes. Under the red-green government, the four-field highway is opened from Svinesund to Minnesund, and we build further towards Hamar. There are four-field motorways entering Porsground for the first time, and the construction of E18 in Westfold to four-field roads has so far led to a reduction in the number of fatalities and heavy injuries of over 85 pst. Now the rest of Telemark and East-Agder are on their way. We build the E6 above the Gudbrand valley, and we rust up northwards. The construction of Hålogalandsbrua starts in the new year and gives 20 minutes less travel time between Narvik and Bjerkvik and benefits the whole of North Norway. Yes, we still have major transportation challenges. The maintenance phase and the need for initial investment require a high level of activity in the transport sector for many years to come. But the quick fix of the opposition is not the answer. Last week the Transport Committee visited Spain and Portugal, two countries with excellent infrastructure performance. But the bet has a dark back. The high rate of expansion on the road, rail and airfields is an essential part of the economic failure of these two countries. A combination of public and private loan financial solutions has created a situation in which Portugal has now stopped all transport projects. In Spain, floating new airports in the billions class are unused because there is no passenger base. Both countries bear a huge debt burden, a debt burden for which the population must suffer through cuts in wages, social benefits, through a recession — an unemployment that leads to the release of half of all young people. The opposition, and in particular the Right, is trying to present it as if the Workers' Party had ideological counter-representations against the use of private actors. That's wrong. It's private that maintains so to speak, it's private that builds most of the roads. There are tenders and market-based maintenance and road development in Norway. Public Private Cooperation is the rule for infrastructure development in Norway. Today, the Right has presented a proposal for a representative to address so-called modern solutions in the transport sector. At all, calling OPS modern is itself a paradox, all the time more and more countries in Europe, among others. Right-wing party colleagues in the United Kingdom and Sweden, now abandon this solution. Right claims that OPS provides for faster deployment and often refers to the Kristiansand-Grimstad route. But neither does this give the Right to be dogmatic. E6 north of the Gardermoen was built about 800 meters per month, but in addition we built 400 meters of railway along the E6. So this is the fastest expansion ever when we see this together. However, the most serious appeal point to OPS is the economic consequences. The right OPS proposal in the current NTP had a rough estimate of at least 110 billion years ago. kr. The list provided by the Right will include annual payments from the State of more than 10 billion. kr from 2020 onwards. Gradually, the entire Right Road Budget will be charged to OPS deductions. Towards the end of the planning period, the commitments will be so large that there is simply no money left to build new roads or to implement a maintenance promise. The debt burden will also have an impact on other areas of society if Norway is to be in a financial crisis. Right quick fix solutions can quickly hit the weakest, even in Norway, and there is too high a price. The Workers' Party is an implementing party. We need to continue the massive investment in transport, we need to shorten the planning time, we need to continue to strengthen competitiveness. We're going to take Norway on!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2736	First of all, I would like to start by saying that despite the misery description that we have been served by the opposition so far in this debate, I am proud to live in Norway. There are several reasons for that, but what I want to focus on today is how far we have come on the gender front and how much it means for the further development of our welfare society. Because it's not that we live primarily on oil in this country. We live by each other's work, and therefore it is vital for us and for our social model that as many of our citizens as possible have their feet in the labour market. In order to achieve a high level of participation in the labour market, equality has remained central. The initiative on kindergartens and parental leave has broken down barriers and made it easier to combine family life with a professional career. Norway has actually become the country with the most active women in the world, next to Iceland, and we shall be proud of that. Another important measure of equality is whether fathers are given the opportunity to spend time with their children. Also there we have taken many important steps, not least during today's government. In Norway, a federal quota was introduced for the first time in 1993. At the time it was very controversial, some said that the Norwegian industry would go down. Fortunately, the world has gone further since then, and now even the NHO people say that the Norwegian business community is not yet mature to eliminate this feather quota. Then I'm a little surprised that the right side of the ongoing public debate is about it. They want to remove the feather quota. The reasons for this proposal are freedom of choice. Erna Solberg said earlier today in one of his lines that policies that are about reality are better than policies that are about rhetoric. I'm 100 pst. agree, but how it relates to their position in this matter, I have very big problems to understand, because it's also the fact that reality in many contexts is highly subjective. It's like... is the reality of a well-furnished home on the west side, is not always the reality of other social layers. When I do not walk around the halls of this house and meet as a wholesaler, I have a quite different working day. In my profession as a truck driver, I am part of a very human-dominated industry, an industry in which the attitude towards responsibilities in the home is often – in the absence of a better word – very old-fashioned. There are still employers who think it is wrong for fathers to take out their legitimate share of parental leave. There are jobs with a macho culture so ingrained that men who want to take advantage of this opportunity to be with their own kids are regularly bullied because of their choice. When I sat yesterday thinking about what to say in this debate, I contacted an old colleague of mine to turn off a chat. He is one of the relatively few in our industry who have chosen to take out their entire share of the parental leave. For him it went quite painfully to arrange this leave in conversation with the management, even though they raised a couple of eyebrows, but when he came back again, he was constantly asked if he had finished playing housewife, whether it was good to finish this forced carnage work, as the colleagues mentioned it. For his part, this went smoothly, but it is not all who are equally well equipped to resist this kind of ridicule. For some men in that situation, the removal of the spring quota would in practice be to be deprived of a right. For many, the threshold for using the parental leave will then be so high that they will not be able to cope with that load. That's where we find the heart of the matter, for the whole point of this type of quota – whether it's about women's right to participate in the professional life, about ensuring representation in the Norwegian boardroom, or about the father's right to care for their own children – is that quotaing is an effective tool for accelerating changes in society. It's worked before, and there's no reason to think it won't work again. Therefore, we cannot stop using the instrument when the citizens of society have not come far enough. My claim, therefore, is that dropping the parental quota will not lead to more freedom of choice, but to the very opposite. In the past, the debate has used terms such as ‘princesial freedom of choice’ and ‘real freedom of choice’. For me, this is a matter that is just about it. On the right hand side, it's obviously the most important thing to offer people a principle of freedom of choice. I think it's far better to offer people an actual, real freedom of choice. My wish is that we in this room continue to make choices that make fathers in the future take out even more leave to be with their children. Not least, I want us to continue to contribute to the fact that men who have chosen a traditional human-dominated profession can also do so without being ridiculed because of their choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2757	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2760	This throne debate is the last one I'm in, and then it's natural for me to talk about the northern regions. Not under any government before has so much positive happened in the northern areas. We who live in the northern part of the country see with all clarity what this has meant for both future faith, housing, establishment and value creation. Here, there has been action on the part of the government. I hope that everyone sees this, and not for electoral reasons ‘talking down’ this important fact for this part of the country. I'm glad that the government in the throne signals that the focus on the northern regions will continue. Northern Norway is the part of the country of opportunity. We have very large access to natural resources that the world needs, which can provide value creation in the country and in the rest of the country. This concerns both food, energy and mineral resources. We must have good opportunities to exploit these resources. In plain text, this means that the part of the country must not remain as a protected area, as some would, but could develop in a way that gives citizens confidence in the future and security of work, homes and homes, while safeguarding nature and the environment. We see with all clarity what the speed of the start of the petroleum age in the north has meant for the whole part of the country. See, for example: on the very positive development of Hammerfest in Finnmark, Harstad in Troms and Sandnesjøen in Nordland. What's happening here has created optimism across the country. Therefore, the predictability that the government has so far provided in the petroleum industry must continue, and it must therefore be clarified so that new areas for exploration are available in the north. The fishing industry is also of the greatest importance in the north, and here value creation could further increase in our important coastal communities. Arctic agriculture should also have great opportunities for development both for food production, for value creation and for living areas. I also welcome the government's new strategy for the mineral industry. I have no doubt that this will be an increasingly important industry in the northern regions and in the rest of the country. The North Region bet is a national bet which clearly benefits the whole country. We are many who hope that the government will have the opportunity to continue this important and active work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2777	This is the eighth throne of the Red-Green Government. More and more voters seem to think it should be the last. In relation to the political platform of this government, lack of content and lack of vision are evident. Expressed willingness and ability to renew is lacking. At the same time, such a defect is a demonstration of a lack of power. The eighth census from the Red-Green Government and from Prime Minister Stoltenberg is a passive message from a government-led government, satisfied with managing while waiting to leave government offices. It will be good to have a government that sees the shortcomings of today's Norwegian society and that, through innovation, improves and further develops Norwegian society, with increased security and freedom for its citizens. And let me stress: the Progress Party believes that innovation, improvement and development can and must of course be done within the framework of a responsible economic policy. The political platform of this government focuses on improving, strengthening and renewing public welfare systems. One of these arrangements is public hospitals. Hospitals have become worse, not better, with the management of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Patients have received fewer hospitals and poorer hospital services. Ahus is a scandal. There is a need for money and action to clean up and correct. The census says nothing about the resource situation in Norwegian hospitals. The progress party will have a clean-up operation. Patients have no time and no life to lose. If transportation, the number of thrones has never said so little. Everyone knows that a new national transport plan will be adopted before the summer of 2013. But the transport sector will also work in 2013 – that is, the year we enter. In its policy platform, the Government says that increased investment in transport will mean increased investment in the maintenance of the road network. It hasn't been like that. The decline in road network in Norway has increased during this government — it is larger than ever. The county councils, which are forced to take over the state's worst roads, are calling for help. Regardless of the political colour of the county administration's management, the message is the same: we are unable to resume detention in maintenance on county roads without the help of the state. The party of progress will help. We believe that the state must also finance upgrading the county road network – the very basis of value creation and settlement. There is also a need to increase maintenance on European roads and national roads. The Progress Party will do that. In its red-green analysis of the situation in Portugal and Spain, the representative forgot to tell the Bjornface that there are now conservative governments clearing up after socialist misrule. I'm going to finish with the following: The Trontal affirms that the people need a new government. This government should not take Norway further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2796	Map: The census of the year will hardly fit in the history books as surprising and innovative. In particular, we in the Right are concerned that the policy of raising the building of competences in our country is not announced this time either. The red-green government doesn't bet in the colleges, nor has it had a clear plan for what they want and where they want with higher education. It's strange that after seven years there's still so much distance between the parties and the government's policy for the Storting. In several disciplines, especially in the oil and gas industry and new exciting industries, Norwegian enterprises have shown that high skills give them a position at the top of the world. The combination of the practical knowledge and experience of professionals and top trained engineers has given this position. Their competence and solutions have given Norway a competitive strength that makes a strong contribution to the well-being we can now offer. If we are to maintain this position, even in new industries, we need to establish educational institutions that recruit the best minds both nationally and internationally. Then we need to stimulate the best environments of competence to become even better, and help to give them a position that attracts top international employees. I'm really worried when State Council Halvorsen on the government's website now determines that we're going to be satisfied with Norwegian universities and their position internationally. She says this at the same time as the last rankings show that our educational institutions are also going down on the fresh rankings this year. Not only do we lose terrain on the world scale, but we're about to end up in the Nordic region! We can't beat ourselves to the chest when evolution goes wrong, when we lose position and reputation internationally. Then we have to admit that it has to change again. State Council opinions underline the need for a shift, and the Right is well prepared with new ideas and better solutions to raise Norwegian educational institutions to a much higher international level. Yes, the right is clear that we will give the best institutes marshy soils to position themselves at the top of Europe. There are such goals that we and a bourgeois government will develop the policies around us. It needs Norwegian business, and such competitiveness needs the Norwegian welfare community. So a little comment on the proposal for a ban on special spaces for organized religious activity in public schools. The right is clear that education is the primary task of Norwegian school and that resources are to be invested in learning. We also believe that this is a priority for each municipality. It is therefore unnatural for the Right to make national bans on matters that definitely belong to local politicians. We believe that local politicians know best how to avoid school becoming a part of religious activity, while at the same time taking on the serious task of facilitating the individual's right to exercise their faith. The right will therefore not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2809	Norwegian food production is unique. Norway is a steep country, it is a cold country, and it is a wet country, but we produce food all over the country, and agriculture is a significant industry. There are 50,000 people, farmers, who grow the soil – producing food all around Norway. That's about. 40000 who work in the land-based food industry, it is about 47 500 who work in the whole food industry. 40,000 people work in processing food around large and small places in all the counties of the country. Norwegian states and Norway would have been a completely different country if we hadn't had agriculture, if we hadn't had the food industry. As we have an agricultural sector all over the country, and we have a food industry all over the country, we see an increasing food shortage. We see that we are able to secure employment and that we have jobs in large and small places. The government's aim is to build up Norwegian food production. In order to achieve agriculture throughout the country and to increase Norwegian food production, we are totally dependent on having tools. There are a few main instruments that I will raise: Point 1. A strong customs protection. Norwegian agriculture and food production depend entirely on strong and robust customs protection. Point 2. An agricultural agreement in which the state and industry form a strategy and are willing to use budgetary resources to develop the industry throughout Norway. Point 3. Taking care of the cultivated land, for the land is the basic resource for all agriculture and agriculture, and there is a scarce resource in Norway. Point 4. The role of cooperation – ensuring that we have the marketing and marketing of products around the country. These supports are under attack. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party will weaken customs protection and are very clear that they will weaken customs protection. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party have been very critical of the budgetary resources put in place at the last reading of the Agriculture Agreement and want a completely different device. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party have been very critical of soil protection, and that the government has tightened in order for less cultivated land to be built down. Both the Right and the Advance Party are critical of the co-operation's important role in Norwegian agricultural policy. The year we enter is a year of destiny for Norwegian agriculture. The Red-Green Government and the Center Party will build up food production, but the Right and Advance Party will build down. That's the political choice people are facing, whether we want more Norwegian food on Norwegian table, or whether we want less Norwegian food. There's no doubt about what this government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2830	Between 20,000 and 35,000 people die every day of sult or sult-related suffering. A billion people starve. By 2050, food production must increase by 70 pst. to provide the world's population with enough food, according to the SN. So we almost have to double the world's food production in 35 years to feed the population. In a situation where large parts of the world suffer because of the global food crisis, Norway has a moral obligation to use agricultural land for food production. At the same time, increased trade with the most poor countries is important, so that these countries too can build up and further develop their agricultural land. The last 50 years have more than 1 million. dekar productive agricultural area has been redispatched in Norway. The grain area has been reduced by 640000 pieces in 20 years, and developments are likely to continue. Food soils that have been degraded cannot be re-used for food production. Most of the food soil is lost due to housing construction and industrial expansion. Only 3 pst. our land area is considered to be arable or arable land. If we maintain the same consumption pattern as today, the cereals area in Norway must increase by 300,000 deches by 2020. If our diet is changed, so that we have more pigs, eggs and chicken, the area needs are even greater. This need is in stark contrast to the degradation we see and have seen in recent years. There are few countries in the world that have less land cultivated per person than Norway has. Norway today has a decline in the use of both grass and cereals. At the same time, the need for food is increasing more strongly than the growth of production. Today, Norway is importing co-feed equivalent to 2.5 million. cover grain soils abroad. This means that we base much of our agricultural production on other countries' resource base. Rapid economic growth in people-rich countries such as China and India is increasing the demand for food. The demand for food is increasing dramatically, and we are increasingly relying on other people's resources. Financial crisis, environmental disaster, trade barriers or other unincorporated events can paralyze much of Norway’s food production. It is therefore more important than ever to protect the food soil in our country. The Christian People's Party believes that we must have strict soil protection, so that we will also have national food supplies in the future. It's our job to secure the dining room for our descendants as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2847	For us in the Workers' Party it is that a good education should be the best door opener of work. The Norwegian education system’s greatest advantage is that it is based on the common-sole’s solid advantage. On the right-hand side, and last but not least the intelligent representative Svein Harberg, use a lot of energy to blacken the Norwegian school and education policy, especially in two areas: it is in research policy and at the level of knowledge in our school. Today there is peace in the school – he is not an ideological battleground. The sphere is characterized by constructive cooperation, and therefore the school is also much more attractive than the workplace. The number of qualified applicants who had the first choice of a teacher has increased by 54 pst. since 2008. Today's ball is characterized by the fact that more and more people are learning more. The PISA results show that Norwegian elephants are progressing in all areas. In the last seven years, higher education and research have been strengthened in many areas. We have established 23 000 new study places, built almost three new student housing every two days. Under the Stoltenberg government, the public research budget has increased by approx. 28 pst. real growth, corrected for all possible price and salary increases. I would like to point out that hardly any other budget area has had such growth as research. When Right now tries to unmeasure education policy by pointing to the research effort – of all things – they have to be sad in terms of arguments. The representative of Solberg was in his intervention on a similar political tour when she bombastically concluded that Norwegian innovation power is now on the level of European crisis countries. I would like to refer to the annual indicator report for the research and innovation system, which shows that Norwegian research publications before, for example, clinical medicine, agricultural science, zoology, molecular science, genetics, geoscience, ecology and the environment are quoted more than 40 pst. more than the world average. I will also briefly mention that NTNU last year was arranged as the fourth best university in the world in cooperation with business. So it's probably not a unique image. Last year, the theme from the Right was that in a time of economic crisis, Europe as a whole is investing in higher education and research, except Norway. No, once again, this is not true. It's hard cuts ashore by country in this area. A new educational class distinction is being introduced in many countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2864	In East Agder, we're still waiting to build the entire E18. We have two parcels where nothing has been done. This concerns the Arendal-Tvedestrand route, which has two footpaths and lots of drive-offs and on-roads. And it's about the Tvedestrand-Vinterkjær stretch, which has a very dangerous intersection at the Risør driveway. When the E18 from Brokelandsheia against Arendal was built, money disappeared miraculously, so that the route ends abruptly in a roundabout, before it goes over to a normal two-field road. The ceasefire at Winterkjær is called Skogsholmen, after the state council that provided for the given appropriations and spent the money on other things, so that the road project was not completed. The Progress Party will build a safe four-field E18 throughout East Agder, and we will show action. When I'm in the business force, I don't think the government has shown any action, either in the case of hospitals, police or other security. Activity means that you should be able to see the results of what you are talking about. It is not useful to say that more money has been allocated to infrastructure than ever for roads to be more safe and safe, when the result of the construction is 11 km by motorway per year. It's no use for the government to say that they've spent a lot of money training new policemen when you can't afford to hire them as policemen, that's for what they've been trained to do. We have e.g. not noticed that there is more visible police in the streets of Arendal and Aust-Agder, and we should have noticed something about the government's bet, even though we are a bit from Oslo. There is no greater security in East-Agder when the population in the summer increases to the multiple, and it turns out that there are even fewer police officers on duty per 1,000 people than during the rest of the year. Then the uncertainty increases, and the security goes down to the minimum. Security in hospitals is something we have recently seen that we cannot take for granted, and where is the government's action here? The progress party will do something about this. We want people to feel safe, both at home, when they're traveling in town, when they're driving on the roads and when they're hospitalized. Then we need a powerful government that shows a responsible economic policy, and that is what we get at a government shift in the autumn of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2877	Norway is in many ways a modern and good country to live in. But when we come to transport infrastructure, we are in a bad position. Norway needs infrastructure adapted to future safety, comfort, quality, predictability and accessibility requirements. More and better roads connect the country, provide a better basis for economic growth and provide viable communities. A modern and efficient railway makes the train more attractive to business and travellers and leads to reduced car use. Self-employed truck drivers, commuters, school students and families with young children are all dependent on good performance. Effective communication opportunities are good industrial policy, good district policy and good urban policy. Mobility is the most important condition for growth. Norway is far behind this. The Transport and Communications Committee was on its way in Portugal and Spain the other day. It was like coming to another world in terms of infrastructure. Yes, an infrastructure that might have been beyond what they can afford, but they have a big debt, and we have a lot of money. The road standard in Norway is much worse than in countries where comparison is natural. While Sweden has about 4,500 km of non-conversation road, we only have 500 km. In addition, we have a maintenance kit estimated at 400-500 billion. kr. In 2011, 168 people died on Norwegian roads. Over 8,500 were injured. Driving must be safer and there must be a need to invest in road safety. We need to be able to get a stronger priority for pitfalls and multi-field roads. On several occasions, the right has provided for a faster and shorter planning process and alternative funding options. Every time, the proposals have been rejected by the government. In May 2012, the report Alternative forms of funding and organisation for transport infrastructure was provided by Vista Analysis on request from the Ministry of Transport. The report states that the current system of public investment in infrastructure in road and rail provides unforeseeable framework conditions. The report recommends the use of Public Private Cooperation (OPS) on road projects. Right is not surprised at that, for OPS has certain advantages: significantly shorter extension time – almost halved, optimal project progress and adaptation of the project to a life perspective, timely completion and agreed price, probably more reasonable implementation than by traditional expansion, premiums the competence and flexibility of private developers, and takes greater account of adaptability to user requirements. The right has new ideas, will implement new solutions and will increase the use of money on infrastructure in line with the action rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2894	Since 2005, we have been working with people throughout the country, businesses, trade unions and organisations to improve Norway. We're one of the world's best countries to live in. Good framework conditions for Norwegian business, not least foreseeable framework conditions, are important. I'm going to take a couple of examples that are of great importance to the industry, business and not least the employees, especially maybe from the part of the country I come from. CO2 compensation for industry was an important issue, and the aim is to prevent Norwegian industry from moving out to land with a less active climate policy. We will continue to facilitate the good development of Norwegian industry and business. This was incredibly well received by the companies around, and this is an important matter for keeping the companies in the country. It is also important in this context with the cooperation of the Parties, and this is vital in order to achieve such arrangements. I was visiting Finnfjord Smelteverk at Finnsnes a while ago. The Director of the company stated that tripartite cooperation is vital. But he said one more thing, and you should notice that in this room. He said that we in Norway have good framework conditions, and that we are probably the best place to run Norwegian industry, and that was not bad said by an industrial leader. You should listen to that. Another example is the new approval scheme for clean-up holdings set up from 1 September. All cleaning establishments wishing to operate in Norway shall be approved by the Labour Inspectorate. Failure to comply can penalise both the company and the purchaser of services. Nor can we ever accept a policy that weakens job protection and collective agreements. We're on the workers' team. Oil and gas policy has helped to strengthen a sector that is currently developing. It's an engine for growth and it's very important to the nation. It is therefore important that what happens in the north should also happen in the future – that we get development and that we get regional ring-effects. It has already begun to produce results, for example: in Lake Sandness, in the North, in Hammerfest, in Finnmark, and in Kristiansund, in More and Romesdal. We are also concerned that further development is taking place in these areas. So a little visit to infrastructure and transportation. I think Anne Marit Bjørnfacen has a good list of what is happening on the transport side. I drove a late summer car from Fauske to Oslo. If you haven't driven that route, you have to be nice and take a trip. I was delayed for two hours to Oslo because of a lot of road work. It rolls out asphalt, bridges are built, and a lot of things happen on the roadside. Burd Hoksrud, you don't stick to the truth; you must travel a ride outside the Oslo pot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2913	I'm going into a slightly different topic than roadwork. The July 22 report was submitted not long ago. The report revealed a fundamental system failure in what should be the primary task of the country, namely to provide security and protection for its own citizens. I think we can say that since 9 April 1940 the emergency systems have not failed as fundamentally as they did this time. We were simply not prepared for anything like this to happen. Before 22 July, it was also given the impression that the standby was good, everything was under control. When the crisis occurred, it turned out that it was in no way. It lacks equipment, coordination and communication. There was a lack of practice and some failure in basic skills. Now the police are through a thorough process to improve preparedness. But when such things happen, you're left with some questions in the extension of it. One question, at least I've asked myself, is, when it came to the inner readiness as we experienced on 22 July, what about the outer security, the outer preparedness, in our country? Do we have a security policy that is good enough? Do we have a security policy that is geared towards the changes that are likely to happen in the future, where we will have to take a greater share of responsibility for our own security? The US is focusing on Asia, Russia is building up in the north, while the NATO countries in Europe have more than enough to deal with the financial crisis and are likely to have to cut their defence and security budgets. Are we prepared? Do we have sufficient preparedness and security policy to meet such a situation in the future? Is that the defence we have today, with the military preparedness we have, good enough if there is a surprising and unexpected situation? On paper, we have a good defense. On paper we have fighter planes, 57 pieces. But how many of these are operational? On paper we have submarines. But how many of these are operational? In 2001, 14 new fighter helicopters were ordered for the Coast Guard and the frigates. Today only one of these is received. I have a certain concern that we have a situation in which we have good plans on the paper, as in the case of internal preparedness, but in practice the situation may be different from that of public documents. The Prime Minister acknowledges that the plans were in place, but not the recognition of the need for security. I believe that it is necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness and effectiveness of external security, as well as the necessary preparedness in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2928	The last persuasion debate in a growing period is often an indicator of what we are waiting for in the coming election campaign. Today's debate gives some answers. The red-green boasts of what they've done. They'll keep going, but they don't present any new ideas, just ideas about new flashing messages. It's going to be our trip – it's going to be cleared in red-green government offices. On the non-social side, the situation is different: four offensive party leaders, agreement that government change is necessary, impatience after putting their own ideas into life, and agreement that the Right should be a central part of an alternative to today's worn-out, visionless government. A typical example of red-green Idea was given in the posts of the representative Sivertsen. Yes, he even complained on Facebook about housing policy. Interesting, did I think – has the government come up with a housing policy? But after hearing the article, I understood what he was going to talk about, namely, the Right Housing Policy, which was, of course, shattered. What about focusing on your own policies? Former Labour Party leader, Prime Minister and Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland said in Dagbladet last December: ‘There is no country in the world that has such a total lack of housing policy as we have in Norway.’ It's a little bit of a certificate to its own. One year has passed, and in the census, once again, there is a big message about housing policy. The right has proposed a number of measures to improve the situation in the housing market. More needs to be built, and municipalities need to have greater freedom to launch major development projects. Lier municipality will build several thousand dwellings on Lierstranda. The municipality has now been waiting 18 months for the treatment of the regulation plan. It is located in the Ministry of the Environment. It's clearly good there. The Ministry was on an inspection last July, and still the plan is at the bottom of the Minister for the Environment's table. On the right, the treatment of the Planning and Building Act in the Ministry of Local Affairs will be brought together. We will reduce the country's opportunities for objections and strengthen the link between collective development and housing development. I heard that the representative Tor-Arne Stroem had been delayed two hours from Fauske to Oslo. I checked it on the map now, it's 1,170 km. I can say that we who live in the Drammen – if we were to be so stupid to drive a car – are delayed one hour every day at 40 km because of lack of road development and due to poor bets on roads in central roads. Right has new ideas and better solutions. The Labour Party has been running for seven years. Next year they shall provide a notification of accommodation. They are calling for housing policy. They've had seven years. After a long experience with red-green groceries messages, I ask myself, what can the Workers' Party get for 12 years that they haven't got for eight?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2950	More housing, not so surprising maybe: this is a theme that goes back in many newspapers, and we have a lot of debates and debates for the time being. We all agree that more dwellings need to be built. From the far left to the far right, we're fighting to want the most. That's good, because we need more housing, and e.g. has SV said that we may have to reach 40,000 if the offer page will be good enough. But there's also reason to call a little warning here, because the housing debate shows a trend that goes back in many other debates: it's primarily the middle class we're talking to, and too few talk about the weak groups. We have to take that into account when making the housing announcement this year. There are two things first and foremost that I would like to draw up here, which I believe the message must stand up for. It is a social and equitable housing policy, which helps young people and the disadvantaged to get a good place to live, and it is important that we stand firm that the construction industry has a responsibility to ensure that the housing being built is adapted to the needs of the future in relation to the environment and availability. These are social, green and fair goals that we are convinced that the red-green will stand on. I hope there's going to be a total amount of stuff that sticks to this. One of the proposals to SV is to build several cheap rental properties on the outside of the ordinary market, so that some, not least students and disadvantaged ones, can enter that type of rental market, perhaps while saving money to enter the more ordinary own market. It is to hope that the Right can reclining here a little bit and join such an arrangement and not reject it a little too much on autoreflex. A little bit more about students: building more student homes is also important for two reasons. We've said we should get up to 2,000. First of all, we help the students in isolation, second, we facilitate the pressure on the rental market, which makes it easier for everyone else who wants to enter the rental market. Here it is important to stimulate both municipalities, housing teams and other actors to build a more professional rental market. It is a crossroads of thought that Norway does not have it today, as opposed to what you have in comparable countries. So a little bit about this with new demands for new buildings. In our opinion, we have a somewhat unfair debate on both environmental and energy demand and on requirements for availability. We see that the right hand side uses Selvaag's numbers, which are very high, for an extra 600,000 kroner on a two-room apartment. We also recommend listening to SINTEF Building Research, which comes with much more muffled calculations here. The SSB does the same thing. Because it has to be a point, not least for the construction industry, that we are operating with demands and expectations for future dwellings that make this a modern industry, among other things. can compete on the global market, instead of standing firm in old ways of building.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2963	In the last year, national security and preparedness have marked the Norwegian political debate. In this context, attention is drawn to a number of areas, and not least to the interaction between all departments to contribute to the disaster. The concept of ‘safety and preparedness’ also includes food safety. That is why the government in the agricultural notification has determined that every nation has the right and duty to feed its own population. Catastrophes hit hard when they occur, and it is important that we, as a large-scale society, meet these challenges. Last summer, natural disasters struck Troms and Buskerud, and large agricultural areas were affected by flood damage. In the Kirkesdalen in Målselv in Troms, the population experienced the enormous forces of nature when the great flood hit the valley. This is described as a 200-year-old flood, and the population of the valley has never experienced such a thing before. When the water was gone, we saw the great destructions that the flood had created, with ruined roads, but above all, ruined the earth. Sludges and gravel covered large agricultural areas, and the river had regularly washed away the food soil in many places. This is a great disaster for those who are affected. The compensation schemes for such events are not well adapted to extreme situations experienced by the Goal Self-beneficiaries on this July day, and the farmers affected are left with large excesses and heavy losses as a result of what has happened. In the future, we will have to face more extreme weather, and that is why I have called for changes in the legislation on compensation schemes, in order to meet the challenges we are going to face in the coming years. I therefore hope that the parties to the agricultural negotiations, the agricultural organisations and the state can reach agreement on a change in the compensation arrangements. Another theme the Centre Party is very concerned about is the fisheries and aquaculture industry. We know that we are going to meet a challenging winter, and we are very busy being ready to take action if necessary. Work is in progress on the new maritime food notification and we are engaged in a forward-looking fishing industry with profitability both in the fleet and in industry. This will create viable fishing communities in the years to come, and we will not least look at Senja, in Lofoten and in the West Pole, and we want more of these viable societies in the future. We are engaged in local ownership, and in the Center Party we are very clear that the raw fish law and the participant law should be firm – unlike the Right and Advance Party, which will rock the fisherman's foundation law. The centre party is concerned with sustainable and accurate growth in the aquaculture industry. We are engaged in increased production, and we are concerned that future concessions are to be awarded to small and medium-sized local owned enterprises. Seafood has a bright future ahead of it, and the Centre Party will help to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e2982	This week we could read in the Evening Post that last year was a jubilee for Norwegian businesses – contrary to the opposition's black paint and pessimism on behalf of Norwegian industry. We have the investment of time in industry: long-term power contracts new investment fund under Enova CO2 compensation scheme industrial incubators historically high frameworks within the GIEK establishment of Export Credit Norway action packages for the woodworking industry and yard and supplier industry bet on SIVA. This and more have been delivered. Nevertheless, the Right is talking about the lack of implementing power, and in today's speeches, Solberg's representative is talking about important industrial skills that can be confused. Yes, this is a new and touching concern for the industry from the Right side. When Elkem was sold to China, Right Svein Fletten said that he saw a future without a major industry on Norwegian soil, and that in the city we should bet on establishing Norwegian-owned companies abroad. The sunset industry, they call it the aluminium industry. And when we were dealing with ownership messages here in Stortinget last year, Right was most busy selling heavily into state-owned companies and thus letting foreign investors in. Because that would have been the result. This volume divides them by the Progress Party. Yes, the progress party usually goes a little bit further. And then it's strange to hear the representative Jensen answer the representative Sande in the line exchange here today that the Progress Party does not want to sell out the power resources. Yes, the Progress Party has voted in favour of a sharp reduction in the ownership of both Statkraft and Statoil. And what happened in Trondheim, then, when the Progress Party and Right ruled the ground there? Well, they sold out Trondheim energy, and the municipality lost millions of dollars, which could go to better schools and more hospitals. In last year's debate on the throne there was a low competitiveness, this year there is a lack of implementing power that is Right and the Progress Party's mantra. The criticism of low competitiveness was silenced when we received measurements that showed that Norway was at the top ten in the world above the best competitive power. Is it true about business that the Minister of Industry is lacking in implementation? What is the Right really looking for in business policy? Is the problem of creating too many private sector enterprises? Or is the problem that simplification is too fast? Or is it bothersome with the smell of newly created asphalt all over the country? Or is that the view of agriculture across the whole country? Europe bleeds with high unemployment and needs to cut welfare services, while in Norway we have more people working than ever before, creating 320,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3029	We all live in a good country. Many things are good, but the jam can be much better, and the Progress Party wants to contribute to the next choice. In the Common Era, it was claimed that one must facilitate the individual, that one must take care of the individual in different contexts. It's good to say, but it's far from action to do it in reality. We can all be a few in that work is important – important for society and important for individuals. We need to make it possible for more people to be involved in this world of work. In particular, there are several groups that are constantly unable to manage themselves or who do not get the right help from the public to open their work door – a work door that provides opportunities for individuals in the form of a secure economy, which increases self-satisfaction and increases health. The progress party will continue its work for these as well. We want to look at opportunities where each individual will get help based on their qualities and challenges. It's not useful to create systems and schemes where the base arrow has a starting point where everyone is the same – a starting point that the Progress Party is strongly opposed to. It also turns out that no matter how many reports a law has, with or without action, it is not always possible that they have found the right measures – a figure from Nav and the SSB shows clearly when it comes to the disabled who want to work. Here the arrows go in the wrong direction. Clearly, they tell us that the job strategy is still just a paper. Therefore, there is a lack that when one sees that action or absence of action is not useful, one must enter and adjust, and quickly — of course, under the assumption that one really wants it. The Progress Party has a job to do to create security and freedom for the individual. We want to use our power of action. Another group that is kept stable at the red-greens are older or well-adult unemployed people who have been unemployed for a long time. Yes, I have recorded that the number has fallen slightly, but is this good enough from what the government has said in its political platform? If you look at those who are over 50 years old and unemployed, they make up over 11,000 people. These are people who have important skills and knowledge, and many of these are long-term unemployed — long-term unemployed who, after all, have not been given the right help from Nav to get into work. Then you have to look at the measures and their effects. Society needs a lot of workers in the future, and long-term seniors should be a group that had also got its focus. The Progress Party has a job to do to create security and freedom for the individual. We want to use our power of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3053	We see increasing political polarisation in several countries in Europe. The debt crisis in many countries has led to unrest and demonstrations. Political movements that represent extreme positions seem provocative with their simple solutions. These parts of the wing, both to the left and to the right, do not represent permanent solutions. These developments give rise to a horrific echo from Europe’s recent history. We therefore need to focus both attention and efforts on this development. Of course, there needs to be international cooperation on a way out of the debt crisis. Several of the speeches in this persuasion debate have had a decreasing tone for the EU and European cooperation. My question about this is: What would the situation be like without the EU? I mean, it would have been a lot worse. But my post is not about foreign policy. I would like to point out the attitude mobilization against extremism, because we are meeting this at home as well. July 22nd last year was the result of extremism. In its open threat assessments, PST gives a clear signal that Muslim extremism represents the greatest threat to terrorist acts. But also the right- and left-radical environments are described by PST. It is well and good that the government presented an action plan to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism in December 2010. We saw a status report for this action plan last December. It shows that a lot is going on, but also that a lot remains. These are measures at local level, within the police and with the municipalities as an important partner. However, many of the measures are not measurable. The right-hand side is worried that this is going to be inefficient and targeted. We hope we're wrong. But how is it possible to measure and assess e.g. ‘Police work for dialogue and freedom of expression’, which is one of the measures? The measures are important, I would like to stress that. But the Right believes that the challenges are bigger and more complex today. Work on tolerance, respect and mutual responsibility must continue. At the same time, however, we will highlight in particular the role, capacity and competence of the PST. We cannot escape the acute part of the struggle against extremism. With democracy and the rule of law as a framework, there is still room to strengthen this means of action. Here too, new ideas and better solutions will be sought by the Right. The fight against extremism will be important, and then we must dare to think again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3072	We are still reminded of the financial crisis in Europe. In the analyses carried out, there are terms such as ‘indebtedness’, ‘borrowing conditions’, ‘interest level’, ‘euro crisis’, ‘rating’, etc. Dominant. We see that unemployment is now sky high. There are 25 million unemployed in the euro zone, and we know that youth unemployment hiding behind these figures is much higher than this. We know that there are great differences between Northern Europe and Southern Europe in this picture. Nevertheless, we are just going to cross the border with Sweden to find alarmingly high unemployment rates and even higher youth unemployment rates. But behind these facts, these cool and now almost everyday concepts are individuals and individual creatures. When we experience that we can no longer use our acquired knowledge and creativity through work, we lose faith, not just in work and society. You also lose hope for the future. That's what's real. It's this that's the facts. This is the daily routine of many, including young children — children who are at risk of having parents who are unemployed throughout their childhood. Both the unemployed in Spain and Greece and young people in Sweden know that the longer they are away from work, the harder it is to get back to work. That is why a lost generation in southern Europe is now being talked about more and more. I want to go back to the starting point. Several Europeans are now experiencing painfully the strong and brutal link between income and expenditure, simply because countries and regions have had more expenditure than income over a long period of time. Thus, the real possibility of getting out of this situation is weakened, but confidence is also weakened. In order to maintain and develop a safe and secure welfare country, there must be confidence in the economy, a confidence that creates predictability. Banks must have the same confidence, and people must have confidence that the elected people will be able to solve the problem. Here are major challenges today. We see that because unemployment is so high, social unrest is also increasing. In several comments after the census this year, it was said that this was only an estimation of what the government is working on, and that it was even a little boring. It says that in this country we are able to create more than 300,000 new jobs, that there have never been more employed, that unemployment is low, that interest rates are low, etc. – maybe boring, but incredibly important for those involved, and also important for the country and the community. We've had a huge kindergarten expansion to get more people to work because they're needed. We are building up and constantly improving the education sector. It is even free from kindergarten to research because we will prepare for tomorrow's needs. We see that much still needs to be done to continue the good welfare structure and make sure that even more people get better than today. But it must be done in safety so that we do not lose confidence in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3091	The right wants a strong shift in the pace of transport policy. It means a new political course in which more money to go and the path is followed by a new policy, which provides better long-termity, holistic solutions and more ways and opportunities for the money we put in. Many districts in Uppland – and Uppland can serve as an example for other areas – have experienced negative population economic development, while increasingly seeing growth pains hit the Oslo region with rising housing prices and distressing congestion, with negative environmental impacts. Hadeland and the Gjøvik region are well-developed, residential and commercial areas. The bottleneck, even though the distance is not great, is the transport possibilities, the communication years to Oslo. Rv. 4 has an infinite history of regulatory problems and clandestine expansion. Even though the expansion is now slipping further, it is a reality that the standard will be out of date before the road is finished. Among other things, the plans for parcels through Nittedal appear to be little satisfactory for a capital that we are talking about here. The Gjøvik track also needs to be updated. The Gjøvik track must be seen as part of the intercity area around Oslo and upgraded accordingly. From an environmental point of view, it is obvious that we should want a path that is competitive with the car in time and comfort. It's not like that today. So the needs are clear enough. The questions are just how we cover them. More money – everyone seems to agree on that. However, investment needs are so robust that we also need to make new efforts to increase the rate of expansion drastically. It's time to think about something new. We need a policy of will for new ideas and implementation. Right launched pilot projects for OPS. Maybe it's time to use the experience we've acquired to actually put new projects into practice? The right also launched the Gjøvik track for competition. It gave immediate, positive results. Nor is it a work that has been followed up by this government. Government Parties claim that OPS on competitive outsourcing will not work. What are the options? We can't exactly see that the ideas are there. The poverty of ideas and the lack of political solutions are striking. We're not going to land in this way. Norway needs a new government that will take new political action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3110	The government says that it will ensure good health care for people, that it will follow the interaction reform, and that it will focus on education. But they say little or nothing concrete about how they're going to do this. The challenges in today's health sector are high, and there is nothing to suggest that they are getting smaller. Although we've got a new Minister of Health who's very satisfied with his meeting with the private health sector, and therefore prefers to talk about how well it works, that doesn't mean that everything is in the care of the health sector. Several people find different chronic diseases, and we live longer. In many cases, this leads to a major complex need for assistance. In addition, projections show that if we do not make changes in the way we solve the sector's tasks, every fourth youth will have to take health education in 2025. If we go another ten years ahead, the figure is that every third youth on a national basis has to take that kind of education. Of course, this is no sustainable development. But we have to recruit and educate more anyway. It has to change to how we solve the problems. The Party considers that, in order to ensure adequate, safe and good health care, substantial efforts must also be made in the education sector. In May, Stortinget Meld. St. 13 for 2011–2012 Welfare Education, Interaction in practice. The Communication contains many good concrete solutions to health and social challenges, which were both feasible and important to implement as soon as possible. The Progress Party had high expectations that the government would really want to take good action to strengthen the health sector. The Progress Party and the other opposition parties promoted a number of good proposals in the case. The parties did not vote in favour of a single concrete proposal. They only voted for the matter to be annexed to the Minutes. The proposals would have made us more skilled and better health care faster. Today, the iron percentage is at some points as high as 50 pst. in nursing training. The majority did not even support the solution of the Progress Party to reduce the drop-out, namely to offer pre-school courses in Norwegian, math and English to applicants for nurse training, when the characteristics of the applicants made it necessary. This would probably cost a few dollars, but would give far better qualified applicants for the education. Message No 13 is probably an example of the government’s paralysis of action. Today we have heard a lot of self-confidence from the representatives of the government parties. There's no way everything's going well in this country. But the Progress Party has good solutions, and we have the will to implement it – not least.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3126	Norway is named the world’s best country to live in for several years. Recently, Redd Barna named us the world's best motherland. That means we're doing a lot right in our country. In the Workers' Party, we are committed to combating unwanted part-time. Figures from the Labour Force Survey show that since the takeover of Stoltenberg by the government and until today the proportion of involuntary part-time is actually halved. The debate today has been special. The right has been working all day with the black paint of how things stand here in the country. But black paint is no new activity from the Right. I remember very well what the Right tried to do in the drive-up to the election campaign in front of the big elections in 2005. Former Minister of Industry Børge Brende from the Right announced a doomsday if the red-greens were to win the election. But doomsday prophecies didn't come to pass. Work for everyone has always been the main issue of the Workers' Party. Since 2005, more than 300,000 new jobs have been created. When the Right had the Minister of Industry, they could refer to a few tens of thousands of new jobs. In my home country, More and Romesdal, more than 10,000 new jobs have been created since 2005, a total of 7,569 new jobs in the private sector. The last figures for unemployment in my home country are 1.8 pst. During today's throne debate, I have not heard that a single right-wing representative has said anything positive about how well things are going in our country. I don't think people recognize themselves in the description of misery. In the course of the day, the right has also said many times that they have new ideas and new and better solutions. It's not like the more times you say something, the more true it is. The right policy is still tax relief and the desire to privatise welfare services. The only new thing is that they have stopped talking about tax relief and privatisation. Finally, a heart attack: I remember well how frustrating it was to be a municipal government representative when Erna Solberg was a municipal minister. In fact, I decided to stop as a local government representative. Fortunately, the situation was completely different when we took over. The municipalities have been strengthened by 60 billion. kr since 2005. It has, among other things, As a result, we have received a total of 22,000 new employees in the municipal health service. That's the result I don't see any reason to blackpaint.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3141	Several representatives have already described the situation in Europe and the challenges facing our neighbouring countries in terms of economic and high unemployment. With this as a hindrance, we should be grateful that Norway is in a completely different position, thanks to our petroleum resources and our ability to combine the resource base with competence to ensure the country a good economic foundation. This means that we have a high level of employment and demand for goods and services in industry, or at least that part of the Norwegian oil-related industry, whether it is aimed at Norwegian capital or for exports. However, the challenges ahead are in line because we are already on the right track to have a two-part business life, where the part that is petroleum-related goes high, while the other part of Norwegian industry and services are struggling because there is a decline in important export markets. This situation is reflected, inter alia, in: the willingness to invest in the various sectors. The SSB expects investment in non-oil-related industries to be approx. 9.5 pst. of the total this year. Unfortunately, the expectations of what happens next year are quite gloomy, and the SSB expects that only about 7 pst. the investment in industry will come to the part which does not depend on the petroleum activity. This is a serious situation, and we are at risk of a weathering of industrial competence in Norway if this division continues in the same direction. Lack of investment will be a danger signal. It is dangerous to rely too much on one factor, and we need to strengthen other types of industry in Norway. Which policy course will best ensure industrial development and jobs in Norway in the future? What policies are to be pursued to stimulate and facilitate growth opportunities for non-petroleum industries in Norway? Over the course of his seven years, this government has had about 270 billion. kr more at the disposal of the former government. It's interesting to see how this extended space of action has been used. Well, at least it could not have been used to enhance the quality of Norwegian universities. Unfortunately, none of our universities were among the world's 200 best on a ranking mentioned in Today's Business Today. Betting on increased knowledge is actually one of the most important things we can do to build the future, and it seems like the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have overlooked this fact. Right sees the need for us to have a governance government that is capable of investing in the future. We don't need four new years with a government that hasn't managed to meet this challenge in the seven years they've already had. We need a new policy, new ideas and better solutions for society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3154	We in the Center Party are as well-knownly engaged in using the whole country. That is why we are also concerned with the best possible transport system, both for people and goods. The red-green government has done a lot these seven years, and the appropriations for transportation have increased a lot. In the future, the big challenge will be to get even more back for the money we invest. These are also many people on the right-hand side talking about, and many solutions are being launched to some extent easily. But it's actually not that there are lightweight solutions to the major challenges we have in the transport sector. We in the Center Party recognize that the shortcuts do not exist. We've done a lot, and we'll take it further, especially in three areas: We need to increase the rate of expansion by building longer distances in one, and planning must also be done for longer distances. Sometimes projects stop for different reasons. It may be soil protection and soil protection is important to ensure the production of Norwegian food — and food safety. I believe that at a very early stage of planning, we have to close the pathways that conflict with larger areas of cultivated land, just to ensure rapid progress. We in the Center Party believe that the local space for action must be maintained, but it must speed up government governance where there is no local agreement on important transport projects. The other important area is getting even more for the money, and then we need more predictable funding. There is demand for these modes of transport, and there is a need for large-scale transport projects to ensure optimal progress. OPS is not necessarily the answer, but the most important thing is that projects are ensured progress and funding in a longer perspective. The last area we want to focus on in the future is total expansion. To avoid the population growth that has been announced, we need a strong collective effort in and around cities. The development of intercity provision and other train services will be essential for the dissemination of population growth, so that even the regions such as Hedmark can take part in the growth and, not least, relieve the central Oslo area. I am also engaged in connecting parts of the country with robust transport corridors, both by rail, road and aircraft. One of the projects I'm most concerned with is electrifying the Røros and Solørbahnen. It is a reasonable response — and with high socio-economic profitability. It is important for passenger traffic, of course, but most importantly it is to ensure a fast and robust way of sending goods between north and south in this country. There is something that, not least, the fishing industry in the north will benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3173	When you follow the debate here today, it is clear that the self-confidence of the representatives from the Right is increasing in line with the polls. The main message is that they will change Norway. If they come into government together with the Progress Party, Norway will be changed – and I believe them in that. One of the areas where the Right runs on with reasonable confidence is the nursery area. It surprises me, especially when we know what they stood for when they were in government. I don't want to use an unparliamentary expression as a ‘bluff’ about the Right Kindergarten policy, but it must be allowed to say that there is a lot of ‘Caesar’s new clothes’ about the policy they have pursued – and run. We know that the party was allowed to build kindergartens when they were in government, they were against the kindergarten agreement, and every time the Right promotes new proposals in the kindergarten sector, it follows with a little greeting to the country's grandchildren' parents about an increase in the maximum price. It should have the right – when they propose a billion-dollar tax cut, someone has to pay the bill. For parents with children in kindergarten, many proposals will cost thousands of dollars more per year per child than with the policy of today's government. The government is therefore very clear that it is not in favour of tax cuts. We are promised that the level of taxation will remain at the level of 2004. That's why we can say to all young children's parents: a children's playground should cost a maximum of NOK 2 330 per month. The government is criticized by figures for the dark blue because we've focused more on quantity than on quality in our kindergarten bet. Our answer to them is: there will be no more quality in the kindergartens because private, commercial companies can make large dividends, as the Right and Advance Party uncritically advocate. We have imposed a dividend limit on private kindergartens just to ensure that the money will benefit the children by keeping the money in kindergarten and not getting into the pockets of kindergarten bars. Implementation has been key here today — the promise of full childcare is one of many examples of government action in this area. My undisclosed claim is that the baby hail is one of the greatest welfare reform of the time, a reform in which the Right has played a modest role. Finally, I am proud to belong to a party that has focused on family and equality. The decisions to extend the parental leave and the parental quota are good examples of such a commitment — decisions that have been well endorsed by both the NHO and the LO. But unfortunately, the Right Party and the Advance Party match this with saying that the parental leave and the spring quota are the first to be removed if they come into government position. As a father who experienced only four hours of unpaid paper schooling, I am horrified by the way the parties choose to demonstrate their capacity for implementation. I know that the right to parental leave is important to Norwegian fathers. It's naive to think that more men will take leave if you remove this right for father. Through its family and gender policy, the government has continued Norway. It will be a disaster about the Right, with the support of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Progress Party being given the opportunity to put the emphasis on this policy as well. Such a decision changes Norway, but it does not continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3194	In Norway, we have had stable and good employment figures in the population for many years, with therefore low unemployment. We're very pleased with that. But these numbers don't show the whole reality picture. There are 600 000 people in working life who are totally or partly out of work because they are on health-related social security schemes, and they are not long-term unemployed and those in social assistance in the figures. The proportion of unsatisfied persons is increasing, especially those with mental health problems. Six out of ten disabled people under 40 years of age are insured because of a mental disorder according to fresh Nav figures. The central statistical agency reports that the participation of people with disabilities has had a clear negative trend since 2008, and is now lower than it was in 2006. The government's job strategy for the disabled, which was presented last year, seems to have had no effect on the participation of this group, rather on the contrary. The strong fall seen in 2010 and 20l1 has continued. The SSB figures show that the fall in participation in employment has been particularly marked for the youngest age group. We've had the I.A. for almost nine years. The inclusion of disabled people has been one of three main objectives of this agreement. It is an important and fine objective, but it does not meet good objectives if it does not lead to results. Unfortunately, it is not uplifting figures to point out when it comes to getting more people with disabilities into work, and that’s gross. Many talk about arduous meetings with the auxiliaries and about time-consuming search processes for different arrangements, which are often little known to permanent practitioners and employers. And it's simply sad to hear stories about young people with disabilities who are offered disability benefits in 18-year-old Nav. When a young person contacts Nav for assistance and assistance in the workplace, assistance should be targeted, accurate and effective. The right is a society with opportunities for everyone, where everyone should be given the opportunity to be as self-employed as possible, to participate in employment and to participate in the development of wealth. The right has taken those who are struggling to enter the labour market seriously and have listened to what they think are the obstacles. Therefore, in 2010, the right developed an employment strategy for people with disabilities, which refers to several good measures that can help those who need some organisation to work. I feel that the government parties are self-satisfied and satisfied with the state of things. They relate to their reality, with good figures of employment and seemingly low unemployment. But when we know that more than 600,000 people are totally or partially out of work, and that almost 80,000 people with disabilities are waiting for assistance and organisation to get to work, we cannot be satisfied. We must use all good forces. Norway simply cannot afford to leave so many people out of the labour market involuntarily. The right, therefore, calls for a more offensive government policy to facilitate the entry of disabled people into normal working life. It is a good social economy, and it will also bring benefits from a public health perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3213	Security and freedom for all – that is our project. Equal opportunities for everyone and work for everyone are what it's all about. Work is the most important thing you can have in order to achieve security and freedom, as well as a welfare country that provides if you get sick, have children or become old and need help. Thus, work for all always has our case no. One for us in the Working Party. It is then a pleasure to note that since we took over in 2005, more than 300 000 new jobs have been created – two out of three in private enterprises. By comparison, 25 000 were created in the Bondevik II government. Never before have so many people worked here in the country. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. But that doesn't mean we're done. We are forced to continue to invest in the world of work; primarily by keeping order in the Norwegian economy, so that we secure jobs. If we see interest rates and interest rates on stakes, it may go against our export rights companies. That's why we stick to the rule of action. For this reason, a dark blue economic experiment poses questions about the rule of action, which is tax havens rather than welfare. We shall continue to invest in jobs by facilitating, simplifying and strengthening research and innovation. It is important that we build bridges into the working life for everyone. The new unpreform reform should facilitate the combination of work and social security. Then it has to be made possible for more people to be involved. Both public and private must contribute. The government has announced that the public will be able to contribute to enterprises that have reduced their working capacity. Many make a good effort. The football team in my hometown has created an own project called "Yes, I Can". Follo football club has engaged people with special challenges in the club for years. Important tasks are carried out by people with e.g. Asperger syndrome, people who have had drug problems in the past, people with mental retardation, etc. This has given many people opportunities in work that they might never have otherwise – and participation in an inclusive environment. It has been important for the individual, but perhaps even more important for the club. The club itself says that he has been better, and there is a place where it is pleasant to be. Young players have acquired important experiences in meeting people who are different from themselves. The project is now to be continued with Nav, Follo Futura and companies in Follo. The government is supposed to create policies and facilitate them, but we also depend on volunteers, businesses and positive people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3228	Many who have spoken here today have pointed out that things are going well in Norwegian working life and in Norwegian economy. But the right-wing party is talking about us being in a lucky situation, and they're trying to suggest that success is a result of conscious, political choices. I want to spend my time here today pointing to the central political choices that have brought us into the situation we are today, and how we can use the experience we have made to move on. Two important policy strategies have provided the basis for a modern and competitive business. We have invested in a well-developed welfare state and an offensive environmental and climate policy – it is the two basic pillars that have created the competitive business we have seen in the past. It's often said that we have to create to divide, and that's right, but we also have to divide to create. We need a tax system and a tax level that can maintain the welfare model on which a modern business life depends. Well-qualified employees at all levels of the organisation may be the most important competitive advantage in Norwegian business, and it is the well-developed welfare state that provides the skilled workforce needed by industry. When I'm out at work and talking to company managers and club leaders, the first thing they often do is worry about is that they don't get enough skilled labour. Another important element that is the result of a well-developed welfare model is that we have a large number of women out in work. It's also the result that we have full child care coverage, and that we have good leave arrangements here in the country. Last, but not least – having good social security systems in the public domain, means that we have flexibility and a adaptability in Norwegian business that many countries in southern Europe envy us. The second key element that has made Norwegian business competitive is an offensive environmental policy. Good environmental policy is good business policy, and good industrial policy is good environmental policy – it cannot repeat too often. I work in the process industry in the 1980s, when the industry received many new environmental requirements. Many claimed these demands would break the industry, and the protests were extensive. But business took the challenge, and with the support of the state, they were able to modernise technology and make adjustments that make them much more competitive today than they would otherwise have been. Without that transition, without the environmental requirements, we might not have had a process industry in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3245	In Norway we live on the green branch. People in other parts of the world and in Europe have completely different conditions for their everyday lives than for us. We are getting fresher, more are getting educated, everyone has kindergarten, we have good equality policies, and not least we have kept the most important promise of this government – that we should get through the crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment. The Labour Party will take Norway further in this direction. We will work hard and systematically to improve technology and to provide people with help and treatment without unnecessary waiting because the computer system is too old, or because we don't interact enough. Not least, we have to work hard and hard for everyone to have a job. On the right, the government believes that there is a lack of action and implementation. If we're going to measure by the Right goal – yes, we haven't succeeded. This government hasn't reduced the number of employees, we haven't increased the unemployment rate, we don't have a school that separates children from parents' wallet, we don't have commercial schools or commercial care for the old. In the right-hand-steered Bergen, the schools fall due; in Kristiansand, Hørres, the rapporteur, invites city ball under prize chandeliers to give profits to municipal measures for drug addicts. Fortunately, such action does not have this government or our party. In the shadow of the prism crowns, the increased class differences close. Our policies have a different direction – the power of action is nourished in the Community's thinking, in a policy that re-distributes, in actions and services that ensure that no one stands alone on tasks that they cannot solve themselves or that they cannot afford, and we have a safe economic policy. The representative, Solberg, seems to think that economic upswings do the same in a well-known Christmas song: they descend — if not in hiding, so as some sort of automatic rushing over us, just here in Norway. It's not like that. Giving work to everyone is hard, daily work and requires good tripartite cooperation. Here, too, the Working Party and the right-hand side go in different directions. The representative of Solvik-Olsen says the government lacks vision. Yes, we lack the vision of the Progress Party on non-reduced climate emissions, on more driving, on alcohol freeing, and not least on an unsafe economic policy. The policy of the Progress Party must give everyone security, they say. I wonder if those who depend on social security benefits would be very safe if the Progress Party had been ruled in 2012. That's when the Progress Party cut 2 billion. in social security benefits from one day to the next. According to my concepts, there is a rather insecure situation to be in. The right-hand side will have a different basic policy – that is the difference – and with the Progress Party as a partner, the fundamental political direction becomes dramatically different from ours. This government will continue to take Norway, and we will fight to the last minute to get voters to trust for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3260	Now I have heard a lot of speakers from the Workers' Party stress that the government has executive power. It strikes me as a little strange, because the accusation from the opposition is not that the government is not talking about its executive power often enough – it is that the government is talking, but not implementing. Well, implementation is in many ways a little bit like charm. If you have to repeatedly stress how much charm you have, there is a certain chance that not everyone will agree. In the area of work and social – which I work with – we see very clearly both the lack of implementation and the need for new solutions and better ideas. Every single day, more people fall out of work in Norway. Here in the day we reached a darkest record: the majority of young people who fall out of work have mental disorders, not just muscle and skeletal disorders. This means that when they fall out of work, the offer they get is, often, to stand in a queue and wait for an hour with a psychologist. Many people also experience that once they get an hour from a psychologist, there's nothing to fill the seven days between the psychologists. We have a system that gives up people too fast. We know that for many years there has been an increase in the number of people who are the youngest. It increases most among them under 30 years of age. Nevertheless, most of the 50 plus is out of work, but the increase is highest among the youngest. So there are more and more young generations who are falling out of work. A quarter of all social clients in Norway are under 30 years of age and men. There is a lot that is good in Norway, but the shadows are also quite clear. We in Norway are not discussing whether a political election should lead us to heaven or to hell, which is certainly parliamentary language. According to the United Nations, Norway has been the best country to live in since 2000 and it has been in all years during the Bondevik government. What we are discussing is: Do we have enough power to act? Do we have new ideas and better solutions to meet the challenges facing Norway? Are we able to give people the opportunity to come back to work more quickly? Can we improve the follow-up of young people who fall out of the labour market? Are we able to make demands on those who meet in the Nav office, and say that part of the social contract that we are all covered by, is that if you demand anything, will you also provide something? We've been so lucky in the field of employment and social affairs that we've got a new Minister of Labour. It's starting to be two weeks ago – tomorrow. She's been handing out some money. That's good. I also see that our new Minister of Labour is active on Twitter. That's funny. I'm glad she's coming to Stortinget and saying more about what she's going to do with politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3275	I am sure that Norwegian parents choose to invest in our children rather than choose the right-hand side tax cuts. That's what this big shot is all about. The most important investment, in addition to setting up parents, with a secure framework and love, is to provide good kindergartens and a day-to-day school where children meet a teacher with security, competence, ability and ability to see them. We risk making the choice to invest less in our children. Most vulnerable are the children who grow up in municipalities with a lower tax base than the average. The Eastfold municipalities and my own home town, Sarpsborg, are among them. Should the Right win the election, the cohesion we have between tax-rich and less tax-rich municipalities will change. This means that the Right takes money from the communities with the greatest living conditions challenges and sends them to its own nuclear electors – with huge revenues – in Asker and Bærum. Only in Sarpsborg will it mean nearly 46 million. kr less. That's approximately equal to that. Eighty fewer teachers. Locally, the Right also attacks property taxes and wants to remove them, which means new 120 million. kr. Both centrally and locally, the Right says that you want to bet on knowledge and education. It's talking to two tongues. This shows some of the back of the medal, which neither the Ingerd Schou nor the local Right-Tops will tell the voters about. The cuts will mean that all the talents in the Norwegian school will not develop properly. Cutting the number of teachers in Sarpsborg and in Eastfold is not investing in the future. This means that fewer children are seen, and there will be less continuing training to get more competent teachers. Where the Right sees expenditure, the Workers' Party and the Parents' opportunity to invest more in our children. The most vulnerable children are especially prioritised by the government when we are in a proper escalation of child protection. Giving children and young people tools to master life is building a stronger society, where more people get the chance to succeed in their own lives. This is individual freedom for those who don't have the best odds of creating a good life. Policy is to choose, and the government chooses the children over tax cuts. Then we build both the people and the country. It's an ambitious goal when we say everyone's going, but that's what social democrats are all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3290	The President will ask the representative to avoid the term ‘to speak with two tongues’ next time he is in the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3294	The languages of the throne shall be forward-looking and shall provide solutions. The future we see before us is years of economic crisis in the world. This could have consequences for Norway. We've done so far better than most people. It's low leave. New jobs are being created. The welfare state is being expanded. Treatment capacity in the health sector is increasing. We strengthen the school sector with more teachers, more places of study and more student homes. We have established 22,000 more annual works in the care sector. The transport sector has been given a boost, with several billion dollars for public transport and road transport. Railway investments are close to double those of the last Bondevik government. I don't know about many countries that spend more money building up the welfare state than Norway does. And I don't know if any countries that convert into business, keep unemployment low, while at the same time boosting redistribution – have an active policy to reduce differences. I don't know any country that gets into this. At the same time, I would like to stress that we wanted to do even more in health, school and the environment. The treatment capacity of drugs and psychiatry should have been even better. It's school buildings that are in too bad a constitution, and it's roads and railroads that should have been started, and preferably done. But we're on the right track. We strengthen well-being in all areas, while creating record new jobs – 300,000 – most in the private sector. The opposition's solution to the major challenges we face in the years to come is to change this policy, turn the course to the right. The taxes are to be reduced by 25 to 100 billion. kr, according to the programmes of the Right and Advance Party. At the same time, it must be privatised, not as a complement to the public, but instead. It is produced as if this were modernising Norway, but it has nothing to do with modernisation. There are old-fashioned, classic right-wing policies for increased differences and for centralisation. Only the formidable challenges we will face in the care and care sector as a result of our very many older age should have canceled all the promises of tax havens. Appropriations for the care sector will have to increase by billions in the years ahead. We will need 160,000 new annual works only in the care and care sector over the next 10–15 years, as well as strengthening schools, hospitals, research and the environment. The opposition has not provided an option for renewal and improvement. That shows the debate today. They have presented old-fashioned, classic right-wing policies – tax relief and privatisation. Many countries have tried, not least in southern Europe, and they have found that it does not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3313	The labour input of ordinary people is Norway’s main economic resource. Oil investment in the North Sea creates great values, but ordinary men and women in ordinary jobs with normal wages create even more. These people keep the wheels going. The country must be directed in the right direction for them. We believe that growth and prosperity are best promoted when ordinary people feel safe, because poverty, differences and insecurity limit growth. When people have security for work, income, health and old age, they dare to contribute more to their neighbors as well as to the community. The right-hand side believes that less tax is a prerequisite for growth. But is the growth higher in right-hand countries, the unemployment lower, the surpluses larger, the debt less? I think it's the other way around. What we know is that those who make the most of government change are those with the highest income, and that there will be less investment in growth and in welfare when more money is spent on taxation. Two plus two is still four. Are we getting better with the Labour Party in government than with the Right? Yes, we do. The government managed the financial crisis well. Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and 300,000 new jobs have been created. Now we have to secure the economy for new generations. The rule of action allows us to use oil revenues wisely, while taking into account future generations and managing fluctuations in the economy. Let us support a safe and long-term economic policy with responsible budgets. Right they say they want to remove the property and property tax, but they prevent people from becoming zero-taxors. How? They'd be happy to respond – after the election. Our tax policy takes the most account of ordinary people with normal jobs and income. Let's continue like this and prevent the richest from becoming zero valuers again. We invest in the future through more to the road and the track, to education and research. But we also invest in security, by providing municipalities with a better economy, so that over 20,000 new year-olds in care and care have been able to get in place. We need more years' work. Let's take care of it, and for full hospital coverage, in the years to come. The part-line agreement with Russia is in port, Norway has contributed to the Class Arms Convention, and we are helping to vaccinate more children in poor countries. Compared to our size, Norway is strong in the world. Let's use the influence to work for new global climate action, for disarmament and for diplomacy. Providing people with equal opportunities is both good policy and good economics. Let's continue the effort for value creation and justice, and always think about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3336	Right is a strong defender of local democracy and private ownership. One of the biggest harms of seven years with red-green rule, is the hard participation of local democracy and private ownership by the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Despite the beautiful words of the government party, practical policies have shown that both local democracy and private ownership have had far worse conditions than that of former bourgeois governments. A good example of state overmanagement is in the municipality of Flora in Sogn and Fjordane, where a private developer wanted to build three cabins at Endestadvatnet. The regulatory plan was drawn up in accordance with the municipal guidelines for this area. There were no neighboring protests against the plan. The planning and development selection in the municipality of Flora has, in several respects, been reconciled with the supported regulatory plan, and the municipality adopted its plan on 16 June 2009. Due to correspondence from the County of Sogn and Fjordane and comments from the Directorate for Nature Management, the regulatory plan was sent to the Ministry of Environment for final approval. The Ministry of the Environment supports the opposition of the State and rejects the plan in its Decision of 29 June 2011. On the right, local authorities in the municipality of Flora and in other municipalities will decide on such matters. Greater local councils will lead to greater legitimacy for the decisions that will be taken, it will facilitate greater local participation, and, not least, bureaucratic duplication of work can be rationalised. Right has new ideas and better solutions to strengthen local democracy and to manage administrative matters effectively: Right wants to limit the County Council’s ability to review municipal decisions for the sole purpose of law enforcement and complaint management, so that the County Council’s ability to review municipalities based on judgement is removed. Right wants to transfer responsibility for the planning part of the Planning and Building Act from the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for a holistic approach. Right wants to place the administrative authority over areas protected by the laws of nature, to local authorities. Right also wants to make demands on the State Supervisory Body and the Directorate to coordinate their statements with local authorities in local matters. This is a case in the Right's way of strengthening local democracy, and it also shows the Right's confidence in local populace.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3368	For the Workers' Party, transportation is important. I noticed earlier in the debate that the head of the Transport and Communications Committee, the representative Hareide, spent two minutes of his post on the RLE subject, but without sacrificing a word on the road. It could mean one of two things: Despite Hareide's high media profile on transportation, this is not a priority matter for the Christian People's Party, or it could mean that the Christian People's Party is pleased with the Workers' Party and the government's transport policy. The last one isn't hard to understand. One thing is that we build more and spend a lot more money than previous governments, but we also increase the traffic budgets year after year. The railway finally got a new spring. Under red-green rule, we have built complete and opened double tracks between Asker and Lysaker and between Sandnes and Stavanger. The Gevingåsen tunnel is built and opened in Trøndelag and has cut the journey time between Trondheim and Nord-Trøndelag significantly. It has been built and built double tracks in Westfold and between Larvik and Porsgrund. We've started working with Follobanen. It will start for double tracks Bergen-Arna and new Ulriken tunnel next year. A clear signal is given for the detailed planning of new Mosse Tunnel on the Eastfold Railway with continuous double tracks from Rygge to Oslo and a marked reduction in travel time from the Eastfold cities. This is not bragging, but realities. The government doesn't deliver results, says Right. The list I just went through is just a little bit of results. All policies are about priorities. I can agree that this government has more money to spend, but let's look at the priorities of a government period. Rightly, I mean, and a lot of the Norwegian people, that things went bad in Norway the last right-wing government, but it wasn't that bad that they got less money to go with during the period. But what happened to the follow-up of NTP? The appropriations stood approximately on the spot resting from right at the base of 10 billion. kr to right over 10 billion. DKK in four budgets – rest on site. In the last four budgets, the Labour Party and the Government have increased the follow-up of NTP by over 2 billion. kr to close to 16 br. kr. Next year we will increase further. It becomes too easy to worry that we have more money to spend. It’s also about how to give priority when you’re in a position to do it. When the man and the woman in the street show impatience and expectation of transportation, then I listen and take it seriously. When the Right complains about everything that is wrong with roads and tracks, I cannot take it seriously. The working party will continue to build the country closer together, and we will do it faster and smarter than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3377	The government has expressed great satisfaction through the speech of the throne, and continues a shocking political course towards unknown goals. We are on our way, but not in terms of goals is a common response from the state councils when they are confronted with the fact that health cows are getting longer, that high school dropouts are increasing, that the number of young people with mental illness is increasing, that violent crime is increasing and that people with disabilities are not entering the workplace. But the red-green government will never get to the finish as long as they choose the wrong path and as long as they don't translate words into action. The fight against a classed society is also a struggle for an inclusive society, a society where everyone is given the opportunity to participate on their own premises. I noticed that the Audun Lighthouse said different people should have equal opportunities – I agree with that. The Storting is going to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the autumn, as the last country in the Nordic region. One of the Convention's objectives is to give people with disabilities an independent life and to be able to participate fully in all areas of life. This commits us as politicians in a rich country, and we have greater opportunities than others to achieve the objectives of the Convention quickly. In this respect, I would like to highlight some of the proposals already made by the Progress Party. We expect the government to present an obliging escalation plan to a universally designed society in which the financial obligations are included. We expect that there will be a TT system that will become a state responsibility and that the social security system will be improved. The organisation of housing and means of working in everyday life cannot depend on municipal conditions and priorities. The government must also soon establish a rights-based BPA scheme and approve the service dog scheme. The 26-year rule, which prevents adults from getting training and leisure aids, is also over-mature to be removed. These are issues the Progress Party and other parties have alternately addressed. Now it has to take action. The HVPU reform has not been followed up, either in terms of the right to housing or the right to participate in work and activity. We now also hear about municipalities that refuse to approve the construction of dwellings for those with developmental disabilities, as they fear increased expenditure. Developmentally disabled people are not allowed to adapt their jobs even if they want to. This is pure discrimination and it cannot be accepted. The size will also be discussed in the autumn by a representative of the Progress Party on how to ensure that the rights of education and jobs of the developing population are met. I expect that proposal to be supported by all the parties. Then I will end by mentioning the need to adapt the care allowance scheme. The Progress Party also has a proposal for a better treatment regime in the autumn. I would also like to ask for a more flexible sick pay scheme for those who have chronically ill children. We need to facilitate everyone's participation on their own premises, but then political action is required. The Progress Party will continue to show its way and promote good proposals that can be realised after the next elections, if we are given the opportunity to show action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3394	The government says they're still going to bet on the north. I think it's great that the government continues this commitment. But the government is in debt to the previous bourgeois government. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen put the northern areas on the agenda through the 2005 Northern Territory Communication. The red-green government came to the table and covered the table. Nor is it news that the government has a focus on the northern regions. Already in the Soria Moria declaration it was defined that the northern regions would be one of the most important areas of activity in the coming years. This is now seven years ago, and if one ignores the agreement on the Barents Sea divider line and border crossings, it is basically not concrete that has come out of the government's Northern Territory bet. There is no lack of abstract ambitions, big words and good wishes from the government. In my view, there is a greater lack of will and capacity for implementation with regard to adopted policies and a lack of capacity for innovation. The right believes that a good North-Area bet can represent one of the largest growth and competence impulses that North Norway has stood at the forefront in decades. The main challenge is to make sure that as many people as possible can and will live and bet in the north. The continent needs more legs to stand on. There needs to be an offensive focus on knowledge and competence development in order to increase value creation. Today's government is not involved in the education and construction of infrastructure in the north. In order to make use of natural resources, this is a clear prerequisite. Knowledge schools and research communities in North Norway need to be strengthened, and efforts must be made in knowledge-based industries. Marine nutrition is becoming increasingly dependent on competence, and this is a development where North Norway cannot slow down. The right solutions are to ensure strong Norwegian presence and sovereignty in the northern regions and Svalbard, and to ensure good framework conditions for the development of clusters of nutrients in the north. This must be done with the existing research communities in the country. The government has announced a mineral strategy, and that's good. But it was the Right that suggested in 2011 that a mineral strategy had to be developed. The values we have must be taken care of. A comprehensive management and development plan must be established for the sustainable exploitation of natural resources. There must be strict environmental requirements and, where necessary, strengthened ones. On the right, cooperation between Norwegian and Russian organisations, institutions and people-to-people cooperation will continue, to name a few. For the coast of North Norway, fish have at all times been the main nerve and a condition for settlement. In 2011, the marine food industry in Norway exported NOK 53 billion, making it one of our largest and most important export industries. I see with concern what happens when the red-green government increases the customs duties on groceries. They push ahead of the Norwegian fishing industry in order to secure the votes of the Centre Party. Today, there is great optimism also in industries such as the marine sector, farming, wind power, minerals and travel. And finally, it looks like the decline in population has turned into a lot of municipalities. Right will be the guarantor of new ideas and better solutions in the North Region policy. We want to make it possible for the people of North Norway and local authorities to take the lead in shaping our own future. The authorities need to talk more to those involved — with those who know where the shoe is printing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3411	I've heard the Right today talk a little about that they're so imaginative. But I wonder who got the idea of blackpainting the amazing efforts of universities and colleges, by being a little concerned that we have dropped some places on an index called The Times Higher Education. This is an index of a research methodology that Professor Bjørn Stensaker, who is researching exactly this index, says almost is a scandal. It's a little random where you end up on the index. He is supported by the principal of the University of Oslo, who believes that it does not say that UiO is anything worse than before, maybe just that the others are a little bit better. Student organisations are also critical of the rankings. The index simply doesn't have a goal. It doesn't say anything about the state of higher education. We have to relate to real numbers. It's investing in research, it's investing in education. Research and innovation are important for how we, as a society, are equipped to meet the major challenges we face – the climate challenges, funding the welfare state and integration. We're going in front of these areas. Since the takeover of the Stoltenberg II government, research budgets have increased by almost 50 pst. – more money, which gives more research. Many individual results can be highlighted – that we are in the grip of renewable energy. In 2009, we opened the world's first floating windmill outside Karmøy. Finnfjord melting plants aim to become the world's most energy efficient melting plants using environmentally friendly technology. They depend on us continuing to bet. Leading engineers in Norwegian shipyards build ships with a unique competence for Norway, because we learn to think innovatively, creatively, climate-friendly and mathematically, while learning about new technology. Aldous Huxley, the novelist, said: ‘The progress of medical research has been so enormous that there is virtually no one healthy anymore.’ The hospital sector currently has 1.5 million more investigations and treatments than in 2005. The technological reforms in the health system allow all those who take care of other people every day to escape the heaviest promises. We can simplify their everyday life through GPS usage and robotic mechanisms when we're betting on research. It's a saying, where everyone thinks the same thing, it's not much. It's a summary of onefold or absence of diversity. Norway has become a more diverse society. That's good. It also requires us to learn how to research the integration of minorities. Research is about the country's mental capital. We're going to manage it wisely for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3429	The focus on the mining industry in Norway has been low for decades, and the industry has largely come under the shadow of the oil and gas industry. Few talk about Norwegian-based minerals and metals for 1 500 billion. kr. Therefore, it is time for the government to take the initiative to map mineral deposits in the land and on the Norwegian continental shelf. Minerals and metals can be our new oil. At the end of last year, the mapping rate was 21 pst. In Sweden and Finland, the mapping rate is 90 and 100 pst respectively. The Progress Party has on several occasions called for an overall strategy for the mineral industry to provide the industry with long-term and predictable framework conditions, including: in the identification of resources, the increased possibility of recruiting skilled labour from Norwegian educational institutions and the framework conditions for obtaining capital for investment in the discovery and extraction of mineral resources. Nav's business survey in the autumn of 2011 revealed a shortage of about 200 geologists and geophysicists and a shortage of about 200. 1450 civil engineers in the geodisciplinary, petroleum, metallurgy and the like. The planned study places for 2011 were only 181. The government signaled that a strategy would come in spring 2012 at the latest. Now it's exposed. The party believes that this training is only contributing to the uncertainty as to whether it would be profitable to invest in the mining industry in Norway both as an industry and as a career path. The party is concerned that the mining industry is given the status it deserves and needs to assert itself both nationally and internationally. In order to avoid contributing to negative environmental and other economic impacts, it is also important to clarify the possibilities for, inter alia, the environment and other industries. the establishment of landfill of mining waste on land or at sea. The promotion party is determined that the Norwegian mining industry will have a future in Norway, but the framework conditions will have to be put in place as soon as possible to enable the industry to market the mineral industry as an attractive job and an industry in growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3446	Right-wing fisheries policy has been the subject of debate in the Chamber today. It's really very positive. I therefore seize the opportunity to clear up a little misunderstood red-green interpretation from representatives Lillian Hansen and Irene Lange Nordahl. The right has a fisheries policy that has proved to work well. Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen from the Right sat behind the rudder in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast when pessimism in the industry was turned to optimism. In 2005, even the largest fisheries organisations supported the work of the civil government and asked for the continuation of the forward-looking and predictable fisheries policy that the Right led to the government. If Hansen and Lange Nordahl are in doubt, I can reassure them that the Right believes that the Raw Fish Act is the cornerstone of the fishing industry and that the law must remain. We believe that the law provides a good basis for an efficient and well-organised market place and good resource control, but that it is mature for a review. More specifically, we believe that individual agreements between the purchaser and the seller on the supply of fish should be allowed, and that this should be incorporated into the business rules of all sales laws. It must also be possible for the sales teams to determine the selling method. Local solutions know we often work better than the dictates of a department. It should be clarified in the ownership provisions of the participant law and its practice, in order to ensure consistent and predictable practice. We need to better facilitate the implementation of generational shifts in family companies, and as much as possible we need to be able to become fishermen. On a principle basis, we think it is worrying that today we have a special percentage adjustment of ownership in the aquaculture industry, but not in other industries, and we wonder why it should be so. Changes in ownership rules have been made in the past without the industry being destroyed. On the contrary, we feel that we now have an industry that exports more fish than ever before. I believe that coastal Norway should rather be anxious about the red-green policy, given that customs duties on a number of agricultural products will now increase. But there is something that I will come back to in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3469	There was a communication from the LLO Brussels Office during the day, saying that only three countries in the EEA region have had an increase in real wages in 2011. It's Norway with 3 pst., Czech Republic with 0.8 pst. and Sweden with 0.3 pst. All other countries experienced a real wage drop. It is probably a picture of the special position of Norwegian working life in the European context. While the average unemployment rate in the EU area is now approaching 12pst. and other young people in Greece and Spain are not employed, unemployment in Norway is below 3pst. In neighbouring Sweden, where young people are now applying for employment in Norway, youth unemployment is 25pst. It is this situation that the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, today described as a short-term inconvenience to the workers in Europe. It can also be experienced by someone who obviously believes that unemployment in Europe is a theoretical figure. The leader of the Progress Party believes that we should be more concerned that Norway is doing so well, because it weakens our competitiveness. It would probably have been better if we had been in the same class as the majority of European countries, with increasing unemployment and real wages falling, for competitiveness reasons. I don't doubt for a moment that she will be able to reverse this development if the next fall gives bourgeois majority and a government with the Right and the Advance Party. Since the government change in 2005, 330,000 new jobs have been created in this country, two thirds in the private sector, and forecasts continue to point up. In 2013, too, the workforce will grow, which is also the basis for our common well-being. At the same time, the growth of the labour force is a good picture of a successful industrial policy. Now, of course, I may be moving in circles other than the Right Party and Advance Party people, but to the extent that I meet business people, it is not primarily the tax they complain about. They're much more concerned with good communications, road and rail, i.e. increased public consumption, not less. Our well-being is based on high employment, safe jobs and a well-functioning and good working life. We've developed it in Norway. I am afraid the situation can quickly become uncomfortable for Norwegian workers if we let Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen go into government offices. This is what they will attack: workers' rights, employment security and working conditions. This is how they will reverse developments in Norwegian working life, and it will not be on the will of implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3480	This government has turned a negative curve on the PISA results to become a positive curve. Norwegian schoolchildren read and write better. We have been committed to recognising the important job that Norwegian schools and teachers do, and there has also been an increase in the number of applicants with teacher education as first choice — over 50 pst. We've put on ice experiments that privatization is what gives better education, and it's been well received by teachers, parents, and students. Right hammers loose with the slogan for new ideas and new solutions. I've been thinking a little about what this is going to be. Are there even more tests for the sake of the tests? Is there more arguing with the teacher's organizations, as we remember from Kristin Clemet and what we see with the Right in Oslo? No, this would, as you can see, be old news, as it is often from the Right. We've seen your solutions before, and we're not very interested. But then I heard a new proposal today during the slogan on new solutions and new ideas – the Right-luggage, the option for you who won't go to health-threatening school or are not happy on the bus. Because as Elisabeth Aspaker said, she had checked this out a little bit closer, and it was after all something parents and kids wanted. I'm pretty sure that if we had taken a new talk with them, we could establish that what they wanted was new and safe school buildings. It won't last. They're probably pretty confused that the government seems to be bringing School Norway in the right direction. Our government has targeted the job, and it has produced results. The time is also not this time to open the door for right-wing worn-out experiments. We don't need schools with AS behind their name. Norwegian local government does not want freedom of establishment for private schools. They also do not want the municipal economy of Erna Solberg, which the last time she was in government, gave a drop in the number of teachers. The moderates in Sweden have shown us what can happen to a school policy from a right-wing party. This has led to increased differences, lack of confidence in the rating system, and wrong-looking school results. I believe that is all the reason why we should continue the job. We have shown a willingness to prioritize school. We've increased the number of teaching hours in the core subjects of Norwegian, math and English with a total of five hours of childhood. We have introduced three hours of physical activity, which gives better health and better concentration. We've introduced electoral science. And we have established practice as a method of learning theory. Just like school itself, there are no easy solutions in school policy, just hard work and priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3496	Future road development and good infrastructure are alpha and omega for the inhabitants and for the business community of our country. The main road network in Norway is miserable compared to all countries it is natural to compare with. We can't go backwards into the future. It is high time we built modern roads with good prosperity. Above all, we need to ensure that no new roads are out of date until the drivers use them. Several places in the country are built the two-field tribal road, despite the fact that all reason suggests that four fields would be the only right one. Road development is piece by piece and divided, and planning takes an infinitely long time. It is high time to think about new developments in road development in this country. I am surprised that the government has rejected the OPS model where it will be natural. The important thing must be to give way to the people, not who builds the road. I want to ask everyone who is skeptical about OPS: look to the South and the expansion that has taken place between Kristiansand and Grimstad. There has been a great success, and there is no stretch in this country that has been built in a shorter time. The NHO has ordered a report that clearly states that the state road service on three different routes is planning the road based on the wrong traffic figures. One of these sections applies to a new tribal route on the South. The construction of two-field roads is planned on parts of the route between the major cities of Kristiansand and Stavanger, despite the fact that this NHO report shows that population growth has not been taken into account and the fact that economic growth is unevenly distributed nationally. Unfortunately, the South is a part of the country with great challenges in relation to living conditions. The county has many municipalities at the bottom of the SSB statistics. I hope the government notices that the areas of severe living conditions are identical to those that have poor tribal pathways. Poor road networks make commuting time-consuming, and many of the small municipalities have a narrow labour market and too few jobs for their own inhabitants. Life years are not just about inheritance and environment. It's essentially about road development. Good infrastructure gives more people a new chance, gets more people into work and uses the whole country. We are not allowed to speed up road development. I expect the government to make the necessary changes to the NTP, so that planned two-field sections between the major cities of Kristiansand and Stavanger are built as narrow four-fields. It's the only thing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3515	The Trontale has provided the Stortinget with insight into tasks and areas that today's government will work with and for the next year, and it has been thoroughly explained by the debate today on most issues. I am sure that the Stortinget will be able to implement a very good policy in the next twelve months. On the other hand, I am quite concerned about the policy that any new majority in today's opposition will give priority to whether they are allowed to rule the country from the next harvest. The opposition promises tax relief – again. They want extensive privatisation and commercialisation of public services. They want to set the individual and the family free. It sounds enticing, but it's a little chin of that freedom. It is only those persons and families with enough resources, in the widest sense of the word, who can really avail themselves of such freedom. Over the last few years, the opposition has attacked the government for having low ambitions, for being maritime-proof and for being paralysed. Souls promise the bigger, better and more bets than the red-greens in most debates. But the right-hand side says very little about how to finance the promises and the improvements they always overwhelm the red-green politicians. The answer to that is by reading the opposition's budgets and game program. Right-wing policy will wind up districts as we know them today. Agriculture is at risk, it is clear. There will be cabin construction and shooting, but there won't be much production of food. The municipalities, which are important both as a service provider and as a large employer, are really quite poor. A blue-blue handlebar will reduce or eliminate non-statutory tasks, and most of them will be left to the market. People with high incomes, and regular work and some money on the book will be the winners in a Right-Cyprus Norway. What really worries me is how little we get to know how the Right will drive the country. They don't have many ambitions. They talk very little about what I think is most important: environment and fair distribution. They don't say anything about how we're going to help those who have a completely different starting point than us. What we need is to work even stronger internationally with climate issues, with poverty reduction, with gender equality, with tolerance, with human dignity, inclusion and democratisation. As I read the right hand side now, their ambitions are light years away from what Norway and the world need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3532	On 25 September, an important Norwegian public investigation, namely NOU 2012: 15 Policy on gender equality, handed over to Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion Inga Marte Thorkildsen, and the spillage notice to follow up the investigation, was expected in spring 2013. The investigation shows that we haven't gotten too far with the equality here in the country, as some claim, but we've come too short. We are not completely equal in the country – believe it or not. There is a need for systematic and continuous work over several years and through different programmes, including: equal opportunities programmes in pedagogical, grassroots and sexual harassment in the youth community. Only then will we have a real government of the people, we get freedom of choice, we get distribution and get protected vulnerability, which the Equality Committee has chosen as its four areas of action. With the eyes of the SV, these are good areas for equality, but also for social development. The recommendations relating to freedom of choice concern, inter alia, the following: on free choice of education and a tripartite agreement for equal opportunities in employment. For working life is a very important arena for equality in the future. Here the Norwegian model of tripartite cooperation is very important, both at national level and with local anchoring. Only through tripartite cooperation and the drawing up of cooperation agreements between employee organisations, employers’ organisations and the authorities are obliged to undertake the many actions that need to be taken. Among other things, an equality agreement may contain national targets for part-time reduction. An equality agreement can also be a follow-up to equal opportunities programmes in education, where employees in schools and kindergartens are given a level playing field in education and guidance on how to integrate gender equality into education and practice – in fact only a follow-up to the gender equality law and the laws they have to follow today, but we need systematics to implement it. The recommendations of the Equality Committee are that the establishments drawing out gender equality agreements should receive close professional follow-up, guidance and training in gender equality work, as well as grants for active gender equality work. That's amazing. In addition, we have a challenge related to the labour market, that it is gender-divided. And it's probably a lot because of a sex-shared childhood that young people take too much of a gender stereotype choice of education. That is why we are very excited about the proposal for an equal opportunities scholarship in education, which, hopefully, can help reduce gender gaps in many education and profession. Together with awareness of pedagogics and improved counselling services in secondary and secondary education, young people can have the opportunity to have free and effective choice of education. And it's a freedom that weighs a lot more than the right to choose Spanish cheese than Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3554	In a year's time, the social choice will be for the next election ball. The blues have gathered. We have two government options to choose from, red-green rule or the most right-wing government we've ever had. The choice is between a clear and clear red-green alternative and a mildly unclear and speckling dark-blue experiment. What road should Norway take? A transition to a blue rule will not necessarily be marked that much – to start with. Right, it's always trying to represent it as that people get all the well-being, safe economy plus big tax breaks all over the line. Everything should be as good as with the Worker's Party - plus a little bit more. It seems too good to be true. And so is it. The bourgeois parties will leave more to private. The big money has to go to the treasure trove. Gradually, it will result in a tax haven rather than well-being, at least well-being for everyone. For those who get big tax cuts on a good economy, the welfare level plays a smaller role. One can always buy well-being if the income is large and the tax is small. Well-being is not free. By turning the priorities into tax cuts, most people will be less well-being, while they are financially even better than they are today. There is roadwork today across large parts of the country. It is almost annoying to have to wait here and there because of work on road repairs, but only nearly. Because it's built more way than anything. It creates equivalency and security. We're going faster and safer. It's about creating values for business and most people. Tax revenue provides funds for roads, shelters and kindergartens. The bet should be a split layer. We're going to work according to ability and get as needed. The working party should know about it. We're going to have a good common ground for everyone. We're going to focus on qualified teachers. There should be more focus on the basics and increased efforts towards non-response. Right-wing placebo policy on tax cuts and privatisation has expired. There is no renewal. It's the same old lesson from new conservatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3567	I have looked forward to this debate – the opposition's debate, the opposition's ability to stand out as both opposition and, not least, opposition as a whole. But in my opinion, this debate day has actually shown us three things. It's unclear, perhaps more unclear than before, what the opposition's overall policy is. It's cracking. The replica chord shifts the opposition parties this morning actually illustrated it very well. Perhaps it was best exemplified by the representative Skei Grande's line, who was standing unanswered by the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, if there are at all man-made climate change. So at this central point, you can't give clear answers. In addition, I see the opposition's policy as unclear and unspoken. It will also be our task to identify the areas of policy that seem clear – for something is clear. Next year's elections, and the months we now go into, become a debate and a struggle around the direction of our society further. One area that may seem clearer than others from the opposition is their lack of effort to maintain an active district policy and, in particular, an active food production – which has been discussed by many. In a meeting with Hedmark Bondelag the other day I was introduced to new research, among other things. from my own district. Only for Hedmark’s part do primary industries mean 14 000 jobs — with the whole chain. So we're talking about an annual value creation of approximately 5 billion. kr only for Hedmark County. We know that many other states also have similar numbers. So here we're talking about maintaining housing, producing our own food, taking care of cultural landscapes and much more. Yeah, we're really talking about the security of people's central jobs -- whether it's out in the field, or it's in the processing, reselling, or something in the administration. That is why, in my opinion, there is a significant choice of direction in the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party for cuts to both food producers and others. Six billion. kr has been proposed from the Right and hemisphere 6 billion. kr from the Progress Party. It will be of great importance for this whole value chain if you are not willing to see that this has major consequences for many of the perhaps most vulnerable jobs we are going to fight against next year's elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3576	Over the last three years, along with the Transport and Communications Committee, I have traveled around the country. It is good to see that the activity in the construction industry is so high across the country. New road installations are under construction, we see results from work in the railway sector. Rail delay hours have fallen sharply. Maintenance produces results. New route expansions are under way and are more planned. On the roads it is asphalted, built and restored. In one week in spring, the Stortinget decided on four major road projects that are now being launched: Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrandtunnel on E136 in Møre and Romsdal, Fønhus-Bagn on E16 in Oppland, Ryfast on Rv. 13 in Rogaland and Hålogalandsbrua and Tåldal Racial Security Tunnel on E6 and E10 respectively in the North. All are major and important projects linking the country and providing regional impact for a more coherent housing, labour and service market. That is why I am wondering that the right parties say that the government is suffering from a refusal of decision. That's not what we've seen results of when we've traveled abroad. But the Center Party will build more. We will have more commitment to transportation in the coming years. Money has to be made, and funding needs to be more stable. It will provide more optimal progress in the various projects. Many solutions can be used to ensure precisely this, and the most important thing for us is not the model, but to provide predictability and more complete development. New, smarter contract strategies are a goal. For example: the builder is in charge of operation and maintenance after the expansion. The centre party also believes that more of the maintenance can be done locally by splitting the contracts so that local contractors can be involved. The planning time must be down. I am very pleased with the work that both the previous and the new Minister of Transport here have started. Here, it is important that all agencies contribute to significantly shorter planning time. The Central Party will ensure that the whole country is linked to good transport modes. In cities, more of the passenger traffic needs to shift to collective solutions to accommodate the transport needs of businesses on the roads. Collective solutions are important across the country. The centre will have stronger bets on express buses and taxis for buses to connect the grid collectively – even in the country. In the districts it will be that road, aircraft and maritime transport have the main priority, as well as that it is important to upgrade existing routes in both north, east and west. Roads are and will be important to ensure accessibility and road safety and to safeguard our business life around the country. Therefore, not only one transport sector can be given priority, all must take priority in the coming years, but in a smarter and more efficient way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3589	Many red-green representatives today have been more concerned with speaking falsely about the Right than presenting their own party's policy. I think the voters will actually notice that. The representative Truls Wickholm has been in Bergen up to several times today, and he has drawn up Bergen as an example of a municipality that does not take school maintenance seriously enough. It's quite daring when the representative hasn't made his homework better. In fact, if you go into maintenance work in Bergen for the last two to three decades, it turns out that the periods of school maintenance at the lowest level in Bergen were while Bengt Martin Olsen from the Workers' Party crashed the city, and while Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen was driving Bergen. What the right now is going on in Bergen, is actually clearing up after past neglect by the workers' party government in Bergen. Then I think that when you don't do your homework better than that, you also have to bear to be confronted with what's actually the truth in that case. So it was Lillian Hansen, the representative, who used his whole speech to scare about the Right Fisheries Policy. It must be a cross of thought for Hansen that while demand for Norwegian fish has risen, demand for more red-green policy has fallen dramatically. So the right has presented a programme of new ideas and better solutions to further develop and strengthen the profitability of the Norwegian fishing industry. We are now experiencing increased demand for Right-wing policies, including on the coast. New measures are required to modernise the fishing industry so that it can become a sustainable industry and generate growth in the future. The red-greens say they want to take Norway further, but the voters now say something different. Eight years will be enough, new forces will have to escape. To the right, it is a great paradox that in such good times the government does not see itself able to fulfill the Prime Minister's mantra that knowledge trumps everything and allows it to become a reality in its budgetary priorities. On the contrary, the government is now trying as best it can to wrap huge lifting breaks into new papers, hoping that teachers and others will not discover what is actually happening. The promise of knowledge was an important piece of time, with emphasis on knowledge and basic skills. The government has continued the reform to a great extent, but has neglected the country's teachers. Too highly qualified teachers are the key prerequisites for success in the Knowledge Lift and for success in raising the quality of Norwegian schools. We need to do more for continuing education, we need to create new career paths, we need to focus on senior measures, we need to create more attractive teacher training, and we need to recruit more teachers from the workplace into the profession. Now I see that Trond Giske presents the Workers' Party's new education policy and has copied Right's demand for enhanced admission requirements for higher education. He would like to copy more, we have a good school policy, we have an executive – Kristin Clemet has shown that – and we would like to take over the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3604	The party wants to join the government after the 2013 elections. With the Progress Party in government, the citizens of the country will recognize us on the following: freedom, security and power of action. The freedom of individual citizens will be full freedom of expression. Furthermore, free schooling will be permitted. If parents prefer children to go to a private school, they have the freedom to do so. Similarly, those who want to send their children to public school can do so, even if this school is further away. School expenditure shall be covered by 100 pst. by the public with the Progress Party in position. Freedom also means that if you need a doctor or hospital, you choose the desired service. The propulsion party will also be a propellant, so that the old and needy will be able to choose which institution they want to use. With the Advance Party in position, the money will follow the patient. How often do we hear, especially from older people, that security has been greatly diluted in recent years. A lot of petty crime is often the reason why security is worse than in the past. Examples such as purses, mobile thefts, card thefts and personal data fraud are still reported. If the Progress Party is in place, the security of the individual citizen must be significantly improved. The individual citizen should be able to say and write what he wants, without fear of reaction from others. The number of cops has to be increased, and we're going to get more visible police in the streets. The Progress Party will prohibit begging and work for people who do not have money or who can only support themselves by begging or crime to be sent out of the country as soon as possible. The third point on which the Progress Party will be recognised is action. The Progress Party will demonstrate action in several areas of society that it is desirable to change. Time does not allow entering more than one area. This area is increasing municipal autonomy. Today, the local politician is left with little power. Area planning and law of destination is an area where local politicians should and would like to decide. They won't. For general authorities without policy selection, bureaucrats make decisions. Thus, citizens have little confidence in the political system, and this may be one of the main reasons why so few will be local politicians. We recently saw from Bergen that almost all the housing construction had stopped. It was mentioned in the Bergen report that 26 different authorities had the right to object to regulatory plans. The approval of regulatory plans would be impossible without the decision of the Ministry of the Environment. Now that we are entering an electoral year, freedom, security and action will be what characterises the policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3623	More than 200,000 people in Norway are struggling with reduced working capacity. Both for the individual and for the Norwegian economy, it is important that as many people as possible can get out of work. The evening post reported on April 20, this year that there are considerable differences between the counties to the extent of their success in the resettlement work. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly raised this issue, at the latest in an interpellant debate in June this year. People who can and will work must have the opportunity to be part of the working life. Unfortunately, our party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, pointed out that there have been more and more disabled people outside the labour market during today's government. In the above-mentioned interpellation debate in June, the interpellant Ropstad experienced that then State Council Bjurstrøm did not respond to questions about the government’s objectives in the policy of reintroduction. No, she actually returned the question back to the interpellant with the following: ‘What would be good enough? Because I have to know what you mean to deliver on." The interpellant replied, he, but the Council of State clearly refused to set a target on, for example. 60-70 pst. achievement would mean more work both in the use of instruments and in business. Yes, of course, I would say. That's why the Christian People's Party promoted that interference and initiated that debate, so that the government and we all would do more. Telemark has also managed to reach its target of 70 pst. So it's possible to set goals. To this the Council of State said at the end of its article: ‘There is an opportunity to move via counties — that’s not a problem.’ It is absolutely vital to have an inclusive working life, but it is also crucial, in my opinion, to have a policy with goals to include those who have fallen out. So we have 212,000 people who need an even more active policy to get out and back to work. The government is going to hear more from the Christian People's Party in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3644	We will meet a situation with several older people in the future. That's a good one. The elderly are becoming more and more active, and they live longer. The vast majority want to be active and to stay at home as long as possible. Nevertheless, we know that at some point many will need assistance at home, in a nursing home or in a nursing home. It is essential that the care sector does not stand still. We need to spend more money, we need to recruit many more carers, but we also need to use new methods to provide the assistance and care that best caters for the needs of the elderly. It's about thinking new, trying new methods, applying new technologies, but it's also about working with relatives and non-governmental organisations. That is why I am pleased that the government has announced that it will present a big deal next year on innovation in care. It is the municipalities that provide care for the elderly around the country. Municipalities build spaces for the care of the lucky day, and they provide good home-based services to those who need it. The government has facilitated this by means of a grant scheme for the care of lucky people, and not least through a powerful uplift in the local economy. The municipalities are well in progress with a large expansion of the care of the lucky day. I want to draw attention to Oslo, where the Right has been running for 15 years with the support of the other bourgeois parties. It was cut in the economy of the districts, the urban districts that are just responsible for providing home-based services and paying for health homes. Half a billion urban areas are required to save in 2012 and in the draft budget for 2013. Nor does the right intend to build new hospitals until 2015 at the earliest. Both the County Council and the Health and Social Ombudsman in Oslo have repeatedly stated that the threshold for getting sick homes is too high in Oslo. It may not be so surprising that the threshold gets high when you cut the transfers to the service providers, while not building new ones. The government is adding up to increased construction of spaces for the sake of luck. The right and bourgeois regime in Oslo will not build. The government has strengthened the municipalities by 60 billion. kr since 2005. In Oslo, where the Right and the Civilian regimes, the economy of the districts is suffocated. Is that what this right here is called executive power? The choice in 2013 is also a policy choice for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3658	In the field of housing policy, there are today major challenges. Even the red-green government, however satisfied they are with itself, must also admit that in this important area they have not delivered. In 2011, 28 000 new dwellings were built, despite the forecasting centre’s estimate that the annual housing demand is around 2 000. 38 000 new dwellings. The Christian People's Party fears that the low housing construction will lead to a further warming of the housing market. Norwegian housing and urban development policies are not sustainable as they are today. Population growth has never been higher than now. The population has now reached five million inhabitants. About four out of five Nordics live in cities and towns, and it is in cities and densely populated areas the growth is strongest. Housing prices have quadrupled since 1993. Now they are higher than ever, and the growth in the Norwegian economy, low interest rates and changing family patterns affect prices. At the same time, the Managing Director of Selvaag Bolig, Bard Schumann, has quite rightly said that the housing prices could be 10-20 pst. lower with a more active housing policy. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to strive for urban and urban development that is more conducive to our being able to live, work and act in the same place. Therefore, we will have national policy guidelines that ensure adequate housing in areas with growth pressures. 98 pst. The population aged between 20 and 30 says they want to own their own home. But more and more people are outside, and we need to help young people enter the housing market. 82 pst. of young people between 17 and 34 years of age believe that the current BSU scheme with a limit of 150 000 kroner is not good enough. By 10 July of this year, the group manager of DNB, Rune Bjerke, was appointed to increase the BSU limit to NOK 300000. For the current financial year, the Christian People's Party proposed to increase the amount limit to DKK 300000 for total savings, DKK 25 000 for annual savings and increased deductions to 28 pst. This would make a huge difference for all the young people who are currently striving to enter the housing market. Changes in the BSU scheme are particularly important in view of the government’s tightening of the equity requirement to 15 pst. in the case of the purchase of housing, which in isolation appears to be more of a measure to strengthen banks than to facilitate a more well-functioning housing market. The equity requirement will result in even greater problems for more young people and others with a weak economy to enter the housing market, and the Christian People's Party believes that we need to lower the equity requirement to 10 pst., as it used to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3673	Many different types of meat and cheese are likely to receive much higher customs duties when the government presents the state budget on the first Monday. The centre party celebrates it as a victory. But it's a whimsical victory. The EU is threatening sanctions against Norwegian fishing exports. Norway’s relationship with the EU becomes a balancing item in an internal Norwegian horse trade, and the Customs Union of the Centre may be very costly, not only for Norwegian consumers, but also for one of Norway’s main export industries — the fishing industry. In the right, it is important to maintain a certain level of import protection in order to ensure Norwegian agricultural production of good Norwegian food in all parts of the country. At the same time, we believe that it is important to remember that Norwegian customs protection is already among the world’s highest – that we are already at the customs peak today. 90 pst. of Norwegian seafood is currently exported – 33 million seafood meals daily. Last year's export value was 53 billion. kr. According to a recent SINTEF report, the seafood industry can be fivefold by 2050. It is important for Norwegian seafood to have a constructive relationship with our trading partners. After a 20-year struggle, the US removed the penalty duty on Norwegian salmon, and the salmon industry won against the EU minimum price regime in court in March. The EEA Agreement states that Norway and Europe are to work towards increased trade. The consequences of working against the intentions of the EEA Agreement and any trade war with the EU can be great for Norwegian business. In particular, it could seriously affect the fishing industry and cause serious adverse effects on rock fishing and dry fishing to southern Europe. In the worst cases, salmon exports may also be affected. Increased customs protection of Norwegian agricultural products could result in the EU responding to a weakening of market access to Norwegian seafood. The government is in complete jeopardy when it comes to food trade. In international negotiations, Norway and the Government for Free Trade in Fish are fighting, while accepting increased customs protection for Norwegian agricultural products is expected. Norway already has Europe's most expensive food. Many families will notice that food in Norwegian shops is becoming even more expensive and the selection is poorer. Border trade will increase. The gap between Norwegian and international commodity prices will increase. In the long term, the Norwegian food industry will also be weakened by increased customs protection. I hope I wake up on Monday to the news that the government will not raise the customs duties on food anyway. I hope I hear that the government will protect the interests of all parts of the Norwegian business. Norwegian interests also include fishing and consumption interests. It realizes the right, and I hope the government will realize that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3692	From government, it is often claimed that the greatest threat we now see is climate change. The scientific community points to a strong reduction in the oceans in the polar regions and other examples of our ongoing challenge to understand what is happening to the global climate. And we do not lack examples of celestial and hell descriptions from parts of the red-green government in general and from the Socialist Left Party in particular. A series of proposals, which primarily frame the usual builder, will be developed. On one day, diesel cars are recommended, while on the next day, a ban on exactly the same fuel type is being launched. The green certificates are adopted, so that the same SV Secretary of State who presented the case becomes the one who sabotages the same action through a national medium, at best transmission time. The strange thing is that one later experience during an energy seminar that Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhjell blames the measure. It is therefore appropriate to ask ourselves when the Red-Green Government and the Socialist Left Party will become some with themselves. Is certification scheme reasonable or not? Is it because one regrets the introduction of a green certificate that a no-let Swedish developer travels with the majority of the certificates, through such overbureaucratic concession treatment that one now spends so many times as much time on any approval as the Swedish authorities do? In any case, this economic contribution to the production of good renewable energy is substantially lost here to countries and does not contribute to the expected decline in the use of fossil energy sources. Can the red-green government really sit quietly and watch Norwegian consumers finance the Swedish renewable effort? Let me just make it very clear that the Progress Party believes this is completely unacceptable and contrary to our intentions when we went in for this action. The Progress Party conducts a responsible economic policy and is aware that when Norwegian consumers are charged for an action, they shall also have their legitimate share of this action. If the government really wants to implement measures in line with the climate agreement, it is a step in the right direction. Despite this, little or nothing happens. This measure is about public construction and energy consumption there. As you know, the entire 40 pst. by the energy consumption associated with the construction and operation of our building stock, and who is the major building owner, if not the public sector? On questions to the State Council responsible for energy construction ambitions, such a passive approach is so passive that the private and business sectors are completely overrun by this government. The only record this government can make in this context is the salary record of the managing director of public buildings – far beyond what industry itself finds defensive. The lack of action is also evident here and reveals the red-green government – also in this area – as a complete framework of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3709	I don't know if the National Assembly has taken inwards that we only have 3 pst. unemployment in this country. If the parliamentarians of other countries had heard us in this Chamber today – especially the attacks coming from the opposition, about how badly we are in this country – then probably anyone could have dressed in their head, to say it mildly. The highest priority of the Workers' Party and this government is work for all. We don't need to see any further than Sweden, where unemployment has increased dramatically. In Spain, one in four are unemployed, and half of all Spanish youth are unemployed. In Italy, it is feared that the euro crisis will flare up again. In Greece, the state register is empty. When we turn on the TV, we see street fights where people fight for their rights ashore that is only approx. two hours of flight time away from Oslo. The biggest challenge, if you look at the Swedish labour market, is also high and persistent youth unemployment, which includes those between 16 and 24 years of age. In February 2012, the total number of young people unemployed was 25.2 p.m. This represents approx. 160 000 Swedish young people without a job. In addition, several tens of thousands of young people in Sweden have traveled to Norway — it is good that we get a workforce — to have a job and something to live on. If all the Swedish youth working in Norway had returned home, Sweden’s youth leave would have increased to about 30 p.m., perhaps more. And I ask myself, is there such a scheme and such a blue government Norway will have after the elections on 1 October 2013? I'm just asking. The Swedish government's medicine is tax-free for those who have a job to go to, and it has not produced results. So I'm going to ask you what results that will give if we get into that spiral. We also remember previous years when it was civil government, remembering unemployment, and not least the interest increases that have been. I think the Norwegian people have to think carefully about what kind of policy you might want to pursue, and that you don't have time and space for experiments. The medicine they use in Sweden doesn't work. The aim of the Workers' Party is a society that gives all freedom and security, freedom to live meaningful lives, security of work, its own economy and sound welfare systems. We have that in this country, and we should be a little tight in our backs and proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3724	I will take the floor again in the debate to comment on proposal No. 1, presented by the Progress Party. That's what it says. ‘The government asks the government to propose a ban on specific spaces for organised religious activity in public schools.’ I want to inform you that the Christian People's Party is going to vote against that proposal, and I want to justify it. Students and teachers who come to school come as whole people, with their whole faith. Prayer is a natural part of many people's everyday lives. A believing person does not give up his faith when he or she comes out into the public room or comes to school – and that's not the way we want it either. Students and teachers must come as they are and meet others on that basis. It's not a threat to the school – it's an enrichment. The school is an integration arena, it was said by the Progress Party when they justified this proposal earlier today. Yes, but it's just when we can meet as whole people, like the ones we are, with our faith and with all that we carry with us, that we can integrate, that's when we can meet. That's how we can learn to live together. Our society is constantly evolving. Not only are we influenced by it, but our society is permeated by a thousand-year-old Christian heritage. At the same time, we also see a greater religious diversity developing and appearing. Therefore, a ban on ‘special spaces for organized religious activity’, as the proposal states, is to bind people’s religious lives, and it is to restrict the natural place that religious life has in society. It not only affects the freedom of belief and the ability of all kinds of religions to express themselves, but it may most affect the Christian cultural heritage and its position in Norwegian society. In the media, we've heard of some Muslim students who want that kind of organization. At the same time, we also have 200 Christian school teams who want some flexibility and organization and who are certainly different from school to school around the country. The state should not restrict religion and our ability to exercise it and make faith appear in the public space. The state should facilitate religious life, including at school. That's the whole difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3744	A short time ago, we rejoiced over the opening of Stavanger's new concert hall, a fantastic building driven by Right-steered Stavanger. This great effort is part of an offensive policy to strengthen the Stavanger area as a modern European region for the future, which is very great. But Stavanger is not alone in wanting a good and forward-looking cultural arena. If the Minister of Culture had checked, she would have seen that there are at least 40 projects on her table, and more are coming. For example, we know of billions of projects in Oslo, such as the new National Museum and the rehabilitation of the National Theatre. Bergen has a long list of both rehabilitation projects and new constructions, and a large number of buildings in the museum sector have been reported, where it is also called after magazines. Despite large increases in the cultural budget, we know that it will be hard to find government funds to meet this need. Therefore it is necessary to think again, something that the right has asked on several occasions, but unfortunately there is little response to get. Where is the pilot project that gives us experience with Public Private Cooperation for Cultural Buildings? The Swedes try it out, with the culture house in Umeå. An important project in Malmö is also an example of this. Where are the pilots that stimulate combination solutions, as we have seen, for example, at the Dörningen Arena in Elverum? It's a lot to pick up in that kind of model. And perhaps it is that a gift-enhancing scheme or a targeted tax incentive scheme could help to increase private contributions into cultural buildings? Other countries have good experience with this. There are donors if you meet them with a different and more positive attitude. Where is the pilot project that can demonstrate that an OPS project could solve parts of the magazine building that are being screamed for in Museums-Norway? A project is ready at Maihaugen, it's just to get started. This is a large magazine project, also linked to the maintenance of small and protective crafts in our country, which is also an important objective. Culture-Norway has received large financial contributions through the Cultural Promise. They're smeared out very well, but after old patterns and old solutions. We need a new policy, and we need a new government to find the will to do just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3757	Let me first just say that I think the representative, Hope, made a very good contribution on religious freedom. I think this is one of the decisions we can safely leave to local authorities. So that representative Stroem the election on 1 October 2013. I too would like to take this opportunity to encourage social-democratic voters to vote on 1 October 2013! [[Laughter]] So for the most part. The representative of Gullvåg of the Workers' Party, and several others, has mentioned the brutal labour policy of the Right. I think they should end with that. There are two reasons for that: first of all, it's wrong. Secondly, the undersigned has conducted a sample in the Right as, among other things, has given me the nickname ‘Red Isaac’ by the Youth Party that I previously led, which was intended to go through the entire Right Labour Policy. Some of our conclusion after that review was that it was important — and this is always clear — to keep the Working Environment Act as a foundation law in Norwegian working life. It is also important that it is not clear that it is not texas; it is important that workers have a basic protection. But then the decisive difference is, and that is what the discussion is really about: how dogmatic is it when you look at the legislation? Work life is changing all the time. That's why it's perhaps one of the worst fields in saying that you should have a law that doesn't change. It was understood, among other things: Jens Stoltenberg in his first government. This was understood by Jørgen Kosmo when he was Minister of Labour in that government. But now it has suddenly become such that Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, when she was Minister of Health, said that for the Workers' Party, the Working Environment Act is sacred. There was hardly any invitation to the Christian People's Party, and I think it's a bad idea to have as a starting point that laws are sacred, at least if they're not written down on stone tablets that are brought down from a mountain. So we are in a situation where the competitive situation in Europe is exacerbated every day by the economic crisis. When it is over, competitiveness in Europe will be strengthened because they have had internal devaluation, so wages are falling, and they are implementing labour reforms. We're going to solve huge challenges in the care field. How are we going to do it if we don't use our workforce in a smarter way than we do now? We can actually do that with some decorations and a little bit more flexibility. And it is with respect to report also a flexibility that very many employers demand. So flexibility is not a bad thing for the employees. The reason for this is quite simple – and then I don't think it's clear when I say flexibility – and it's that working life in Norway no longer works like it did in the 1920s. Employment in Norway has developed dramatically since the inception of labour policy in the 1920s. Today, in most workplaces, you can see that here we are in the same boat – for the elderly, for the patients or for the values we are going to create.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3772	For the sake of the Minutes alone, the President will draw attention to the fact that former representative Jørgen Kosmo has never been Minister of Labour, but he has been Minister of Administration, and that was probably the period to which this was referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3775	The debate on fisheries policy took place beyond the evening, and I am very pleased, because it deserves Norway's second largest industry. First, the representative Anne Karin Olli. With all due respect, when you say that it's the Right that has raised the mineral industry, it's wrong. The important thing here is not to talk about it, it's to do it, as this government has done. Keywords here are the mineral law, the money for mapping, and not least the mineral strategy that comes. Then to the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve. First, I want to correct something that the representative said during his post. The laws of sale determine the form of turnover, not the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. No, I was not reassured by what the representative Røbekk Nørve said. As far as the Raw Fish Act is concerned, I was inside it in my main post, and I intend to challenge the Right and the representative Røbekk Nørve on it, where the Right will now secure individual contracts for delivery between the buyer and the seller. My question to the representative Røbekk Nørve is: Is it within the framework of the Raw Fish Act, with a minimum price at the bottom? So to scattered ownership. Cleaned up the ownership regulations, said the representative Røbekk Nørve. Yeah, what does that mean? Does this mean that investors and anyone can now invest in Norwegian fishing fleet? Will the Right go away from fishing gear fleet? It is a simple question that I challenge the representative Røbekk Nørve. Then to the representative Aspaker. Do we want Right-wing policy? No, we don't. I am absolutely sure that the people of the coast do not want it. The right has double-communicated over a very long time. I will take one example, and it is the case that concerns the universal service obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3788	We have a living agriculture that houses nature in all of Norway. There's something that really makes us proud of our country. From there, the red-green government is investing in the Norwegian farmer. That's why we're strengthening import protection from next year. The protection of imports is a decisive element of agricultural policy. Because we have ubiquitous nature, we have little food soil, and we have a high cost level in Norway. This means that import protection is necessary in order for the farmer to obtain a viable price for his products. Repeated large-scale plurals have actually confirmed this. Conversion to a percentage will not reduce the lack of food in business. The conversion includes, for example: no desserts and more solid cheeses. The conversion will give no prize jump from 1 January, or from Monday 8 October, as the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve performed. However, it will provide a basis for increasing prices in the long term and in line with cost developments. Right here completely reveals that they do not sacrifice a thought for rural agriculture, or they are not at all concerned with having a living agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3797	I was challenged by the representative Aspaker, or she said that the undersigned had not done his homework, and of course in the Education Committee there is nothing worse to say to another representative. The representative refers to Bergen, and it's not really right. So it's the Workers' Party and Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsens, which probably went off in 2003. I have registered in this room earlier some anger at the Right when this government is trying to refer to errors that are still hanging out with us because of poor priorities of former governments. So we're back in 2005. But as soon as the Right is challenged – the Right Leadership and the Right Priorities – it is thus allowed to re-examine, until 2003. I can, on behalf of Trondheim, go back to 2003, because then Rita Ottervik took over after a rather lengthy right-hand rule. But Rita Ottervik has given priority to spending money on school and school construction. She's spent $1 million. Dr at school buildings in Trondheim every day since she took over as rapporteur. I think the Right should be honest that for them it has been a more important political victory in Bergen to stop the property tax. We are also looking at pictures of the rapporteur, who is happy and receives flowers and celebrations with a symbolic burial of the property tax. I think the Right should just say what it is: our solution is no property tax – and tent to the people. Then I'm also charged with not talking about our policy. So I did. I mentioned several Norwegian, math and English lessons, secondary school electives, more practice and method. I have said that we have increased the search for teacher training by over 50 pst. It's again popular to be a teacher, after we no longer have a state council that talks down the teachers every single day. So with regard to the concrete things, where the government can actually grant and prioritize, we have chosen to give priority, and with regard to the more soft things, where we can talk about things, where one can haggle things up, we have managed to create a mood and completely different results than the right thing last they put in government. Because now I realize that it is allowed to talk about the last Right in Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3809	There has been a formidable change of pace in the construction and operation of transport infrastructure during this government period. We have far more ambitious transport plans than before, and the plans are being implemented. Before that one often heard that the transport plan was not worth the paper he was writing on. Although the ambitions and the measurements were much smaller, they were not implemented before. It is therefore strange to re-proclaim that if they only come in position, there should be no way out of the election. So it's worth noting that the current multiple does what we said. Nevertheless, it is the parties that did not carry out, which are now criticising this government for the lack of implementation. This won't be credible. Now projects are being carried out, and there are works that have been found across large parts of the country. Right shall do so much more by allowing private advances in Public Private Cooperation, but there will be no further road or path of it, for it is still the state that has to pay, except for what users agree with where there is toll financing. It doesn't get any cheaper for that reason. Then we're all in order to get effective and rapid expansion. It has to do with the way the expansion is organized. We are also aware of that. Therefore, the State Road Service and the Railway Agency must ensure that this work is efficiently organised. We've also seen examples of the Road Service being able to do that. The railway works must also do it, or be able to do it. It's important that the government makes sure that it does. The climate communication and the agreement underline that the growth of transport in central areas must be avoided with better collective provision, with pedestrian, bicycle and railway development. A very important project in this way is the development of double tracks and a fast railway in the intercity triangle between Lillehammer, Skien and Halden via Oslo. The climate agreement says that we need a rapid expansion and a time-limit for implementation. I want to underline this when NTP is now being worked on by the government. An internal triangle is not to be stopped. That doesn't give the right social advantage. If freight traffic is to be useful, you have to see the entire distance all the way to the end stations. At the Dovrebane, for example, the main challenges precisely between Hamar and Lillehammer. Social benefits are also often much larger than the calculation methods should be. Many more will use the train, work on the train, rather than driving a car. In particular, travel and business will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3826	The next speaker is the representative Svein Flötten, then the representative Svein Gichleth. In addition, the President may inform that the representative of Røe Isaksen was concerned to the extent that parts of the Ministry of Labour were left to the Ministry of Administration from 1 January 2001. The Representative Fleet – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3833	Thank you for your clarification, and for the floor. Just briefly about the little debate that has been on the Right-wing programme on the fisheries side. Of course, we will continue this discussion at the national meeting. The representative Lillian Hansen will probably not be present. So it's very short: it's wrong that we have to remove the law. I suggest an adjustment, so that the minimum price setting is done by an independent body. I know that others think in the same direction. The annual price agreements are about the pelagic sector, where some actors will be able to write longer agreements with, for example, central purchasing chains. Long-term contracts often offer higher prices. We want to look at the participant law, so that maybe – let's say – industry should be able to own fish quotas. But, as I said, it'll be in May next year, when it finally comes. Then the new Minister of Agriculture has made a French visit to the Stortinget in his debut as the Council of State, without any opportunity to discuss – other than that he has given the message in a three-minute post. But the message was clear enough. It was a frontal attack on the Right and the Progress Party on how to deal with Norwegian agriculture if our policy is put to work. I would like to say that we have not said that we should remove the import protection. The discussion that has recently taken place concerns the increase – the increase in customs duties – and what I want to spend time with now is to say that this increase will provide more expensive Norwegian raw materials. When the Council of State pushes the Norwegian food industry ahead, it does not have them in its back, because they will get more expensive raw materials, they will lose their competitiveness when competing with imported composite products that have a lower customs duty on the same components. This is a fact that neither Battle Violence Vedum nor anyone else will escape. It has to be taken over, because Norwegian agriculture is totally dependent on us having a well-functioning Norwegian food industry. You say the branch you're sitting on, by increasing customs duties. The right will, over time – and predictablely and in line with international solidarity and agreements – try to reduce customs duties so that we can otherwise increase competitiveness over time. But I react strongly to trying to push the industry in front of me in this way. In the end only a tiny little heart attack: Many from the red-greens have become annoyed by the Right's message about new ideas and better solutions. I've heard from several red-greens here that they don't understand what we mean. No, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3846	I think well about the budget proposals for 2012, from the Left and the Right, and what they wanted with Norwegian shipping. The left's draft budget meant that the net pay system should be removed in its entirety. Right would cut approx. 500 million. kr of this purpose, while they would go over to the so-called model of competence. In my opinion, the proposals from these two parties were very bad for Norwegian shipping and for Norwegian seafarers. I think well about the situation before Stortinget introduced the net pay regime for the offshore fleet in our country. The industry saw no possibility of competing in a market where all competitors had a net pay regime. A lot of ship's layers were about to fly out. The Storting therefore seized and introduced the so-called net pay arrangement, against the voices of the Left, Right and Christian People's Party. The results of this important decision did not wait. There was immediately a strong growth in the Norwegian offshore fleet and, not least, in the maritime cluster. The Government of Stoltenberg has subsequently extended the net pay scheme to cover the entire fleet under which such competitive conditions operate. I also notice how busy all the parties have been to keep the Hurtigruta as a brand for our coast. For me, it becomes completely incomprehensible that the Left and Right can defend such a removal or deterioration of the important framework conditions for the Hurtigruta. The red-green government will retain Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships in the future. We are very proud of the maritime cluster. Therefore, the net pay regime for shipping is important to continue. This is not the case with another large number.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3869	A little post from me in an attempt to respond to some of the representative fleet here. It should probably have been the Minister of Agriculture who replied to that – but it is of course about customs protection. Let me say that the Norwegian food industry on the agricultural side is dependent on effective customs protection. It is absolutely essential if we are to maintain Norwegian food production both for the farmer and for the industrial worker, that we have effective customs protection. That's the starting point, and I think that's what the Right agrees with. So the question is whether one should in any way change the customs protection that is now being proposed by the government. It was then claimed by some that it would have enormous negative effects. It will set the fishing industry and the agricultural industry against each other. So there are many different – call it – threats to the industry that are implied in this context. Let me just underline this: when a percentage of milk was introduced, it happened relatively uncomplicated. This happened for approx. Two years ago. Now the change in customs duties, percentage duty, is introduced on some other products. In my view, it will also be relatively straightforward, because there are decisions taking place under existing agreements, under existing WTO agreements, which our trading partners also have to deal with. The space for action we have in this area is delineated by the decision of — I think — 1995, which probably also voted in favour of the Right in 1995. Then it's a paradox that you bring it up – in fact, also cheers up the mood abroad – compared to the fact that it's a decision that's completely legal under both Norwegian laws and international regulations, which we've signed. We are dealing with WTO legislation. The EU must also do so if they respond to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3880	I drew myself primarily to Svein Glossh's posts, but only a brief remark also to Lars Peder Breck. I am pleased that Breck acknowledges that also the Right accepts a certain amount of customs protection. What the discussion is about is whether we should introduce higher customs duties in the situation we are now. I think there's also reason to notice, and record, that there are few from the Workers' Party who defend the new customs rates. I understand that, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs has signed a declaration warning against new customs barriers in the current situation in Europe and against new protectionist measures. So to Svein Gülseth, who comes with a quite serious attack on the Right and other bourgeois parties with regard to maritime policy. We have a connection in our maritime policy. It's about strengthening maritime education, where the Right has put forward concrete proposals. It's about having a model of competence where you subsidize the competent workforce, because it's important to have Norwegian crews on board the boats, where we build up under the NCIs linked to the maritime cluster, and where we want to step down the strange-nose tax on Norwegian ownership. Is there something I encounter when I visit the coastal workplaces that are linked to the maritime industry, it is precisely a desire to step down the strange tax that the Central Party and the Labour Party in the government have increased precisely in these Norwegian jobs. There has also been a lot of discussion in this debate today about reduced taxation in Norwegian workplaces that will go beyond well-being. No, it's just to see what happened the last time the Right sat in government. Then the taxes went down, and the health cows went down. Under the red-green government, taxes have risen, and health cows have risen. We have a strategy to generate growth in the economy in the years to come. When there's growth in the economy, there's more to distribute. And when there is more to be gained, there is room both for investment, to secure well-being and to secure jobs by stepping down strange taxes on Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3891	It is gratifying that at least the former Minister of Agriculture is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3896	There are several of them!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3899	I'm sorry I forgot about the president. What was central to my post, and the representative Breck did not respond to, is that the government is pushing the Norwegian food industry with 50,000 employees in terms of increased customs protection. It is quite right, as Breck says, that right has clearly said from his alternative agricultural message that we believe import protection is important for agriculture for the time being. But I had a reasoning, and I would like to repeat it, that when Norwegian raw materials become more expensive for the Norwegian food industry, the competitiveness will be weakened over time. I didn't say anything about there being any huge increases in prices, because it's been a stroke of Vedum himself and others saying that doesn't matter – if we were to believe it. But we feel uncertain. This means that the competitiveness will be weakened by the fact that other products with the same components can be imported into Norway and sold here under a different and more reasonable customs regime, and then it goes without saying that the Norwegian food industry will suffer from this – will lose competitiveness. I maintain that the Norwegian food industry, which is a great industry, is part of the foundation that Norwegian farmers have a place to deliver their raw materials. I do not imagine that those raw materials will be particularly competitive in any export markets, then we had to subsidize in a large way. That's what's the question, and that would be the question to the State Council Battle Violence Vedum if he had had the opportunity to be here for more than three minutes. Then my question would be: does he think this is good for the Norwegian food industry in the long term? That question would have to be answered by «State Council» Breck, I believe that he believes the same thing as the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3914	I'm glad that Mr. Glüsth's representative raised the issue of shipping, and that it got into this debate, because it's a very important industry for our country. So the representative Sanner says that the Right has a context in its shipping policy. Yes, I ask a question about that, because it is such that it is not possible to simulate themselves to become good seafarers or officers at sea. You have to experience it on a deck, you have to experience it in a machinery room, you have to experience it in rough seas. It is therefore necessary to combine maritime training with deck, to be able to be on board the ship and to be able to take training on land. You can't do that with the so-called model of competence. I would say that had it not been for the red-green government to have so strongly focused on the maritime industry, we had today had quite a few Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. That's what the net pay scheme is about, that's what competition is about because the countries we compete with in this area have that system, and then we have to have it. We're not allowed to play that game.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3923	Let me first clarify a manifest misunderstanding in connection with the contributions of the Representative for the Fleet. Fortunately, more than the speakers of the Central Party have been on the pulpit and talked about customs, I noticed among other things. Representative Ingrid Heggø from the Workers' Party in Sogn and Fjordane. So that was the question of the Norwegian food industry. It's probably a little bit more complicated than the one that fleet here points out. But let me first say that, in my opinion, the entire Norwegian food industry is dependent on strong customs protection, and the industry is also dependent on strong customs protection. No one can convince me that the Norwegian food industry, which includes 50 000–60 000 people, is not worth having a customs protection that ensures Norwegian production. It would be quite unthinkable that you have a size of the Norwegian food industry without the customs protection we have secured here for many, many years. They are also concerned about the customs increase, because it also ensures the industry side. So you've pushed the food industry in front of you -- I've told you before in this room that there's a mutual destiny between the Norwegian farmer and the Norwegian industrial worker on the food side, and that's of course because you're dependent on each other, and both depend on the customs protection we have. Then there's a discussion about whether there can be a development of so-called Protocol 3 products – then we go very technologically into it, I'm not going to go that far into that area. But the point is at least that you may have processed goods that have a different rate of duty. But Protocol 3 is also balanced through agreements with the EU, and as I look at the assessments, it does not have to be a problem with that production. Then the question of the competitiveness of the Norwegian food industry is reduced in the long term by increasing the price of raw materials. I should be surprised if not all Norwegian industry have the same challenges in terms of cost increases. Why would it just be the piece of food that couldn't have an increase in costs? All costs in industry are increasing steadily, and this will provide opportunities for the Norwegian food industry to secure itself in relation to the international food industry; there will be an opportunity for the Norwegian farmer to secure himself against the international farmer. It is a matter of taking care of the Norwegian interests that you make through the proposals that come over the weekend.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-04.ana.ud902e3935	No one else has asked for the floor. The debate in today's sitting is closed. The debate on agenda item No. 1 will continue tomorrow. Tomorrow's meeting starts at noon. 9th@item: inlistbox - The meeting's been cancelled.
