ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e26	The representatives Truls Wickholm and Sonja Mandt, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. From 23 May to 25 May, in order to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Tirana, Albania, an application has been submitted by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives for Permit to Karin S. Woldseth from 23 May to 25 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Torkil Åmland, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e52	Torkil Åmland is present and will take the seat. The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e57	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Åse Michaelsen, Ulf Leirstein and myself, I have the great pleasure of promoting proposals for the introduction of sound and video recordings at all Norwegian courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e62	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e74	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen, Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm and Inga Marte Thorkildsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e81	My question goes to the State Council Halvorsen. Last Wednesday we were so lucky to have Prime Minister Stoltenberg in the Question Time. He spoke about accountability and supported the course in every answer he gave in Stortinget. When the red-green government took over, we lacked 4,000 engineers in Norway. Now I've been going through some regional newspapers in the last two days. In Stavanger Aftenblad, Fredriksstad Blad, Romerikes Blad, Fädrelandsvennen, Bergen's Official Journal, Trønder-Avisa and not least in Haugesund's Avis, there is a great lack of engineering in these regions. In the seven years that the red-green government has been sitting, the gross course in engineers has led to a shortage of 4,000 engineers to 16,000 today. This is not responsible, it is gambling with Norwegian jobs, with value creation and with our wealth in the future. One of the two companies working with technology is now basing its recruitment strategy on Mediterranean economies in crisis. It is possible that it will work in the short term, but I think we all hope that these economies will gradually turn around, and then this will become more difficult. We're dependent on solving this in Norway. The oil industry is also struggling. The oil industry is in a position where it happens more and more. But they also have a greater willingness to pay than the mainland industry, which the red-green government is often busy talking about, but with which they are obviously not concerned about doing so much. So then the question is, what will the red-green government now do to reverse this negative development we've seen in the last seven years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e94	Firstly, it is important to stress that the challenge we face in terms of lack of engineering is due to a happy development in Norwegian business, namely the creation of much more jobs, the success of significant parts of our businesses, and thus increasing the demand for engineers. So that's – what to say – a happy challenge we have. It's a challenge, because we're probably missing between 15,000 and 16,000 engineers, and it's quite right that the shortage has increased, because the demand for engineers has increased. This is why, in the context of the revised national budget, we propose several study places. That's why we have a lot of effort to recruit more people who choose real science in the past. But we also have some challenges in implementing engineering education, because I see that it is one of the educations that have many students starting, but not performing in normal time. In this area, we're doing a big boost, and we're doing a lot of good, because 25 pst. several students have applied for engineering training now than before. I think that real science and engineering education are in a very positive trend. All those who thought that Norwegian youth is just swirling around and choosing from their – what to say – totally undetermined desires in relation to what the labour market looks like are wrong, for young people are now looking for engineering training. That's why we're following up on increasing capacity, and then I'm going to follow up on what's going on with implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e101	It's nice to hear you follow up, we've had enough on this for seven years, and it's nice that the government finally listens to good advice from the Progress Party. But it's now 300 new places of study correspond to about 300 new ones. one seventh of the annual growth rate in the shortage of engineers. With the red-green government at the rudder, the lack of engineers has increased by 1 000 to 2 000. It's a drop in the ocean. There's a lot of things you could have done. One is that the state took responsibility for the financing of the advances. One has to qualify more from higher education, that's absolutely right. However, in order to reduce the drop-out rate, it may also be appropriate to consider — as we have mentioned several times — increasing the funding associated with the training of engineers, as was done in time with teacher training. Is this action that the Council of State would be willing to assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e110	There is absolute grip that I am willing to assess. But remember, our government has increased the number of study places by 23,000. It's not just a question of funding, because it's also about having good teaching skills for the students who are applying, so we're sure that there's quality in the studies, and that the students can do it, so they're well qualified to start working. That's why it's important that we manage to get to these extensions, but also follow up with the quality. Now, attention to real science and the search for engineering training has not been as high as we wanted for a long time. This is why it is particularly gratifying that so many now apply to these courses, that we can follow up with more places of study and ensure that the institutions with the capacity to offer more quality places of study can be able to do so. When it comes to implementation, I think it might be a slightly larger question, which I'm probably allowed to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e119	Three questions have been asked and given rise to follow-up – first Bente Thorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e122	I registered that the Council of State was concerned with the implementation of the engineering study. It is quite tragic, both for the public and for the private sector, that it is approx. 40 pst. by those starting from the engineering study, do not complete. One of the reasons for this is that the level of knowledge is too low. It turns out that those who take the lead to get into the study are doing very well and are going out with very good results. We also know that there are far more applicants for the forward rates than the institutions have the economy to take in. The Progress Party believes that it is in everyone’s interest to have far more complete and complete the studies. I think the Council of State actually agrees with that. But does the Council see the value of the applicants becoming better qualified for the studies, and does she see that if the state finances a larger part of the preliminary study and thus meets all the newspaper releases that Lien referred to today, it will provide a win-win situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e129	After all, I have been involved in high-level implementation, and many in the Committee have supported the efforts we have made to get young people to implement at a higher level. There are slightly different issues regarding higher education. Now for the first time we have better information at the individual level, and then we see that those who don't complete within what is normal time, for example. may come back six months later and take the examination. They may have changed institutions — started at one college and completed at another. So 40 pst. does not give an opaque image. It's important for us now to go in and look at what's a covering picture. This does not mean that the implementation of engineering training cannot be much better — too many fall from it, the picture is only slightly more nuanced. It is absolutely right that the institutions that arrange advanced courses should make sure that they provide an offer to the students that increases their ability to complete and pass the exam. It is an important offer that institutions themselves decide whether to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e140	Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e143	It is good that Norwegian business is doing well, and that there is a need for more engineers and more trained in real science. I find it less pleasing that the government does not take the challenge seriously and meet the demand for that competence. It is good to now choose to set up more places of study, but you can also ask yourself if there is a need for more predictability, a longer-term plan to meet the demand for this competence. It is in itself especially when you are told in May that there are several places here to meet the challenges of real science, and in August you will receive new students and provide quality and good education for them. Does the Council of State and Government have a long-term and predictable plan to meet the needs of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e151	If the President allows, I want to expand the perspective a little bit. Think how lucky we are in Norway, who lack engineers! Think of so many countries with high unemployment among academics! Think of Spain, which has 50 pst. youth unemployment! Let us be glad that our youth is now applying for engineering training and helping us fill the demand we need. So I can see no other way than that it must be positive that when we see that the student education search increases by 25 p.m., we get around and immediately make sure that money is allocated to 1,000 new places of study in the revised national budget, and that the institutions that have the capacity to receive more students are positive and sign up to be on that duel. It testifies to the fact that social responsibility is being taken into account in a lot of areas. And then we'll see if this is a trend over time, which means that we can say that our real trade has been successful, and that we can thus increase capacity in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e158	Steinar Reiten - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e161	More precisely one year ago, the Ministry of Knowledge sent out a letter to the county councils signaling that the so-called TAF offer in higher education had to be brought more into line with the framework for the professional and hourly distribution of the Knowledge Trust. TAF is an abbreviation for technical and general subjects. TAF students have an instructional system which allows them to receive regular classroom instruction and training in an enterprise for four years or more. It has been shown to be very effective in practice, although students have no status as apprentices in the first two years. Very many of them continue engineering studies after high school. In a hearing response by Mr Møre and Mr Romsdal County, an overall political environment stated that the TAF system functions well according to today’s model and should be continued. Can the State Council guarantee that the current and well-functioning solutions for the implementation of TAF training will be approved on a permanent basis as part of the process of ensuring recruitment to engineering training in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e168	It is quite right, as the representative says, that we have received enquiries from, in particular, More and Romesdal, who have very good experience with the TAF model that they offer to their students. I have listened to the experiences and wishes they have. Now we're not done dealing with that matter yet, so I don't want to stand right here and do it, but I think that when we're going to review the Knowledge promise, the professions and their structure will be a particular challenge, because we see that we can have more flexible running, more flexibility between theoretical and practical training than the two-plus-to-model we have today. This discussion also includes the TAF offer, precisely because they are able to combine the study skills that many students want with a letter. I think it is interesting to see if that model can be applicable in other areas as well. I get to come back to exactly how the model in Møre and Romsdal come out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e175	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e178	Not surprisingly, my question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. If we are concerned that the students acquire good basic skills, the teacher is most important. If we want to fight bullying, the teacher is most important. If we want to improve in the PISA studies, the teacher is most important. If we want to prevent apostasy, the teacher is most important. If we're concerned about social cohesion, the teacher is most important. Norwegian teachers have great expectations of making teaching more exciting and challenging for the students, not least we expect teachers to master new technology and learners to be able to make use of it in the subjects. After numerous large-scale announcements from this government, which highlight the teacher's competence as a matter of priority, everything should facilitate a great deal of effort on the part of teachers, whom the Right Leader has called for. If the government believes it is serious with its big messages, the pace of further education the government has taken is embarrassingly ambitious – 1,850 teachers a year of further education means that it will take several decades before Norwegian teachers have received one round of necessary professional replenishment. If they teach more than one subject, they need more than one round in order to acquire the necessary skills in their teaching subjects. Then we see that the Minister of Knowledge at the press conference on SV's programme proposals launches more gym and school food reforms to many billions. After seven years in government, SV should have learned that there is something called prioritizing. My question to the Minister of Knowledge will then be: What comes first for the Minister of Knowledge and the Swedish Minister of Education: a lack of competence for teachers or school food and a high-schooling for billions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e193	Competence for the teachers comes first. But school food and gym for the students, I would prefer tax credits to the richest, so it's not necessarily that the students and the teachers fight for the same crowns. I am looking forward to the priority debate that is coming, because more and more people have become aware that physical activity is increasing learning outcomes – we're just getting smarter students from it. Those who eat healthy are also more susceptible to learning, that's another discussion. That is, it's related to the kind of learning outcomes that students get, and we can imagine that there might be other professional groups that can be invited into such a model. But the teacher's competence is most important, anyway. Yesterday I had the pleasure of distributing the Holmboe prize to an excellent, good math teacher from Trondheim and Nardo school. I would like her name to stand in the staging records forever: her name is Gina Onsrud. She is a very up-to-date practical math teacher who can just use the skills she has gained through different types of filling and her own experience in her long career. It is important that all teachers are given the opportunity to continue their training. We have now created a new model for further training, and we will ensure that those who are applying for it – and the municipalities have come out better of that model – have access to further training. Then my very strong call to the municipalities is to make better use of that opportunity. In the context of the Youth Level Communication, we will have a dedicated five-year implementation strategy based on school-level competence enhancement. It's going to be class management, it's going to be reading, writing and billing, and it's for teachers to be replenished, and for teachers in the different schools to support each other in working more varied and motivating. Because we all know that high school students are struggling with motivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e202	I note that the Council of State is now talking completely away. The Council of State here argues for a need far greater than the rate of continuing education in Norway today. She referred to the high school report. I could refer to the special education message, I could refer to the education line, and I could make the range of adult education messages where learning is most important, longer. 4000 teachers are applying, but again — almost 2,000 teachers are receiving this offer. Revised came without will to bet more on what is most important. The right has proposed a model in which the State would take an even greater responsibility for even more teachers being offered to increase their skills. I ask the question again: does the Minister of Knowledge and this government actually have the will to give priority to the country's teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e209	I am a little surprised by the representative Aspaker, because we have had many rounds in Stortinget about how to get to the split-up team on further education. Both the teachers and the state have met the municipalities, so that we have made a model that is more lucrative for the municipalities now than it was. The reason why municipalities should take part in the responsibility for continuing training is that they are the employers of the teachers. The representative Aspaker probably remembers that Kristin Clemet transferred the employer’s responsibility from the state to the municipalities. It is then important that they take the responsibility of the employer, and part of it is to ensure that employees receive further training. And yet we've gone in with a sponsorship from the state that's very lucrative, and that's made us more applicants this year than we had last year. For all those in which the municipalities are splitting up, we're on the state side. So I believe that we have a job to do with getting the municipalities to see that they are not only served with shorter refresher training courses, but also skills enhancement that require further training. The responsibility lies with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e216	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e219	The first question I got from my parents when I started school was, What teachers did you get? The teacher is the most important for learning and the development you have in school. It must be bitter for everyone, not least for representatives from SV, to see the latest NIFU report, which shows that the school is not doing anything about the social differences today. The main factor in doing something about that is just the teacher's attitude and knowledge. The representative Aspaker asked quite clearly whether further training of teachers would be a priority. The figures are clear, there were twice as many applicants for continuing training as they were offered for continuing training. When can you expect a real boost for continuing training for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e231	Because it's a spice layer we're talking about, it's like the teachers are looking for the municipality – i.e. it is the Vice-Chancellor who cancels – and then it is the municipality that has to be involved and co-financed in the split layer. The municipalities do not co-finance for all 4000 applicants, they co-finance for approx. Eighty-five. This means that the government is setting up for everyone that the municipalities have said they should be involved in co-financing. I believe that there must be a spice layer in which the municipalities also participate. Municipalities must take that responsibility for the further training of their teachers. So I have to say that there's a work going on every single day in school just to smooth out social differences. A high-quality high-quality school, where kids meet across the board, can help all children face challenges based on their assumptions and on their potential. The parents’ attitude to school is very important, their expectations for children’s schooling are very important — but the school has a great job to do, and it does it every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e238	Mette Hanekamhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e241	First of all, I have to be allowed to say that I am happy to hear the Council of State quote almost verbatim from the representatives of the Progress Party on physical activity in school. I expect that then there will be extensive and good support from the government parties to the proposals of the Progress Party for this very thing. When it comes to the teachers, it's very important. We know that the teacher is the most important factor for students' learning and motivation in school. We have great challenges when it comes to recruiting for the teaching profession. We know that it will be easier to recruit if the opportunities for continuing training are present and are significantly better than today. In its previous reply, the Council of State stated that the municipalities had to take some of the responsibility – and that is right. Several municipalities have now been based on online education, precisely to provide a better and more comprehensive offer to their teachers. The problem is that this is expensive and costly for municipalities. Does the Council of State consider it possible to provide increased support for online education to those municipalities that wish to offer this to their teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e252	I think it's interesting to use the Internet, both in terms of teachers' needs for continuing education and in terms of some students who need greater challenges than their classmates in the field. We're now doing that in mathematics. But I think it's definitely an interesting challenge. I think that many of those who offer further education to teachers already use it – and it can probably be much better. Now remember, we've experienced a 50 pst. increase in teacher training from 2008. That's very good. We look through attitudes studies in the teaching profession, that more people have positive attitudes to the teaching profession now than before. I believe that we are in the process of succeeding in increasing respect for the job that the teacher is doing, and in raising the awareness of the profession that may be in front of all other professions – where you can make a difference for other people every single day. I think we're in on a good track here, and then it's important to reinforce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e259	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e262	I almost felt a little dedicated to old times, that it was a finance minister who stood here and explained the big contexts, both in the first and second main issues today – and that’s nice, that’s it. I expect that the former Minister of Finance will continue to thrive on being a Minister of Knowledge – because that was the main issue. The Minister of Knowledge mentioned Gina Onsrud, if I understood the name correctly. She would probably become a great mentor for other teachers. A big challenge is that those we train, often end up in the teaching profession very quickly. Then it's a little sad that you've spent so many years on something you don't really intend to use the education for. My question is: Will the government now look at a proper mentoring system, where you also get a little paid for being a mentor, and thus ensure more good teachers in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e271	We have a guidance system, and it works better and better. Of course, it is primarily about those who are newly educated, and who need someone to rely on when they are fresh and a little more insecure in their job. So luckily, we've already taken that idea. I just have to say, it's a very great advantage to see the big economic picture when you're in charge of knowledge and education. The biggest capital we have, the most important thing we have -- what's going to decide if we're a rich country in the future -- is whether we can manage to reach that potential for all children and young people, all those with potential. That's what's going to decide. So this is a glittering combination. So to the teaching profession, it's not like it's a flight from the teaching profession. In fact, we're switching to a thousand more teachers for school, compared to those who disappear from school in a year. This is, of course, how people change jobs. But we have a positive – net positive – exchange with other professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e280	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e283	Good teachers work for everything. However, 9,000 teachers who teach in Norwegian school are unskilled. The council believes she's on the right track. She has prioritised gym, fruit and unskilled training for homework. Priority has now been given to the implementation of the electoral profession. We got a big signal yesterday, at the hearing about the revision, that many small schools are struggling very financially because there is no money with the government's ambitions. Then they labored to get it done. My question is: what is frustrating with the Council of State is that the Council of State says the right things about teachers – but she doesn't. She does not do what is needed to expand teacher training and continuing education, but rather prioritises other things in school. Now we see that we are conducting an electoral profession that we agree with, but for which there is no money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e290	This phenomenon of selective memory is very interesting. What Trine Skei Grande now forgets is that we have put all of the teacher training in place – we have a new teacher training course. We've made sure it's better funded than before. We've got up the search for the teacher's profession by 50 pst. We have agreed with the KS and the Education Association on what kind of model we are going to have for further education. I wish you had more applicants. But the sum of what we have in relation to investment in the teaching profession is about. 700 million. kr per year. It's a derailment -- another discussion. This has been the government's bet area for a long time, and we succeed in that. Please don't use every opportunity to talk down the teacher's profession. There's an incredible amount of interesting going on, and it's more attractive than before. So we have a good starting point for getting better. The most important thing teachers say about being at school is that they would want them to have fewer students to follow up. So recruiting more teachers and working on our resources are important recruitment policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e297	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e301	The question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. One of the characteristics of this government's child policy is that many of the decisions are justified in terms of working life and social economy, and that the lives of young people are to be adapted to the economic needs of the big society, whether in terms of laws and regulations on parental leave, in terms of residence time, or in terms of kindergarten — yes, even the health-care council is to be adapted to that purpose. One of several examples is the removal of the cash support, which meant that more parents would go to work. Parents’ assessment of the early onset of infants in kindergarten is to be overestimated. But when the cash support was removed from the budget last autumn, it was that for 8 000 two-year-olds – and even more if one rains for those receiving graduated cash support – for whom it was effective, the government's own figures showed that the vast majority of these kids were not going to go to kindergarten. If they do, it turns out that the government has heavily bombed the attack. So you've calculated too few kindergartens, including for those who want to. There are thousands of families who in two months lose $3,300 a month that have been decided by Nav to get them. They don't have kindergarten. Neither those who don't want it, nor those who want it, are going to have a kindergarten. So the result is simple: from August 1st – NOK 3,300 less a month, since the government has chosen not to follow the Committee's advice that these families should have been compensated for this loss of income. The question to the Council of State simply becomes: Is the government proud of its policy towards the families that remains in this situation from 1 August?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e314	I think the representative was injured to say that the families who did not want kindergarten did not have children's playground either. But there I might not think our level of ambition should be. Of course, we're primarily concerned with those who want a nursery place. Let's just go back for a little bit of a second and think about what the cash support really is. The cash support is payment for not using a nursery. It seems that the government is a wrong tool, because very many children benefit from going to kindergarten. It has turned out that this is what young children’s parents also want: full babysitting. It was far, far more than we thought when we started the large nursery, which actually wanted a kindergarten. I believe that the grip we have taken to remove the cash support for the two-year-olds, but keep it for the one-year-olds, provides reasonable flexibility for the families with children, and it provides an opportunity for more people to use a nursery place. The main reason why we have invested in kindergartens is not the need for employment. The most important reason is that we have assumed that a good quality nursery provides opportunities for all children. There's nothing like neither the Swedish government nor I have invented; it's international research that supports, and there's much more attention around this now than it was just a few years ago. There was a major OECD conference in January where this was the very topic, and many now have – despite the financial crisis, despite tight budgets, etc. – a discussion on how to ensure that you invest in the youngest children, because a good childhood lasts your whole life, and kindergarten helps to support a good childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e325	I thank you for the answer, and it's basically quite illustrative that you choose to answer the question about the families that are in this situation, in that way. The Christian People's Party's policy is to facilitate freedom of choice for families by choosing a place in a good kindergarten or cash support. Then the government in its rhetoric has been clear – it also confirms the Council of State – that in terms of freedom of choice for families with children, it is about kindergarten or kindergarten. But what the question was about was that the government, through its own policy, has ensured that thousands of families with children do not choose between kindergarten or kindergarten, or kindergarten or cash support. In two months, thousands of families with children will be selected between nothing and nothing. The question is whether the government is proud of its policy towards these families, when it has been disregarded in addition by the Board of Division on Compensation for the Loss of Income.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e332	The right to kindergarten is statutory. This also applies to those who now lose the cash support because it is liquidated for two-year-olds. This has been known for a long time by the municipalities, and it is the subject of the revised national budget as well. Then I just have to remind you that there are 72 000 more children who have been accommodated in kindergarten since 2003. The freedom of choice that many young children want is, of course, the freedom to choose a kindergarten. It wasn't there. The Bondevik government didn't have the speed of kindergarten expansion that we've had since, so it's our government that has made sure that toddlers have freedom of choice on a very large scale, not the former Bondevik government or the Christian People's Party. The freedom that young children’s parents want is the freedom to choose a kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e339	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e342	I could ask my follow-up question to all of the three councils that are here. I would like to put it to the Council of State who is in the spontaneous Question Time for the first time. If she answers at present, there may be a banging debut for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. Cash support has meant a great deal to the economy, not least for families with low income. The inclusion selection has asked for transitional arrangements to secure income when the cash support falls away from these family members. Another government-arranged selection, the Distribution Selection, says the following: ‘In the short term, however, the liquidation of the cash support will lead to increased economic differences as part of those who will lose the aid may have difficulties in obtaining work to counter the loss of income.’ There have been several poor families and poor children in Norway. We see that removing cash support in the short term will lead to even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e354	I thank you for the opportunity to answer my first question just about the cash support, because it is a very important topic, and we two discussed it not long ago. That was precisely from the point of view of poverty. A paradox related to cash support is that in the short term it can lead to an increase in poverty and that in the long term there can be no doubt that it can be a poverty trap: it keeps women who should have been in work, at home, and it keeps children away from kindergarten, which is a very important arena for children to learn both Norwegian and social skills, so that they succeed in the school run and thus prevent poverty later. I am concerned that we should have the means to help women who are currently outside to get into the labour market. This is particularly true for minority women, and then we have this program that we call New Chance, which is my ambition to strengthen and make nationwide. We will get back to that in the context of the integration message and in the context of the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e363	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e366	The state councils can only stand still. I want to take an example from the reality out there. In November 2011, a family applied for cash support for its child who was one-year-old in December 2011. On 16 January this year, the family received a letter from Nav that they had been granted cash support until the child was three years old. One month later, on 14 February, the family was informed that they would lose the cash support from December 2012. This family now has no children's gardening space and no cash support because the deadline for applying for kindergarten in that municipality expired on 1 February. So now there's that family right there. My question to the Council of State is essentially what she intends to do for this family. In the past, she has replied that she does not want transitional arrangements. She also replied that she would not do anything for these families. What about the legality of this? Will it have retroactive effect? The question is: what will the Council of State do for this family that is now standing without kindergarten and without cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e375	I understand that question is coming up. At the same time, we agreed early that we would wind up the cash support, and it was given notice in advance. So the families that are now in this situation had in themselves the opportunity to obtain information that the cash support would be liquidated. At the same time, there has been a situation in Nav that has caused some families to be affected in the way that the representative Horne describes. That is why we have aspects of this to assess in the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice. We have also had it in the dialogue with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to see how we can deal with the situation that is especially about some people having been misjudged, or that some people get into a blunder because the reception in the kindergarten has already ended. So we get to get back to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e380	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e384	I'd like to talk to the boss. That means the Minister of Knowledge in this context. What we are discussing now is that the government has blocked the development of kindergarten and the effect of the cash support. In connection with the large kindergarten expansion we had a few years ago, we saw that the private kindergartens played a central role. They cover about half the need here in the country. The strength of the expansion was not least the effort made by private kindergartens. Maybe that power will be good to have now, too, because now the need will be strengthened to find the nursery places that the government is occupied with. Then it is with a little wonder that we note a law we have for treatment in Stortinget, which, of course, puts quite a tight frame around the private kindergartens. One thing is a number of reporting requirements around economic conditions; another is that there is a lack of confidence in relation to increasing and increasing demands for kindergartens as businesses than for other types of enterprises. Is this an inspiration for the private to expand?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e393	When we use approx. 30 billion public dollars a year for kindergartens and parents' payments are about. So 10 is a sector of approx. 40 B.C.E. kr, and half of these go to private kindergartens, it is very important that everyone who pays taxes and ends up in the community knows that that money goes to good kindergartens. Unfortunately, we have had some examples of private kindergartens that have taken significant dividends. It concerns a small part of the private kindergartens, but all the private kindergartens are earned that the examples do not exist. All the private kindergartens are served by a law, which is now under treatment in Stortinget, where it is very clear that the purpose of the public support and parental payment is to go to good quality kindergartens, where several kindergartens are subject to statutory duties, etc. In fact, this is about ensuring that there is a high uptake of good financing of the private kindergartens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e400	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e403	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. Markus, nine years old, has a rare and severe muscle disease, and only 1 pst. becomes more than ten years old. He walks with a hand-held respirator on him in order to breathe, and he needs follow-up 24 hours a day. Rolf Kristian is 11 years old. He has a very rare and serious illness. He can't keep his head up himself, he can't sit or stand. He also needs day-to-day supervision. A number of children with serious brain damage also need 24 hours a day, and they have until now had the joy of being able to have their parents at home with them. Nav put an end to that. For a while back, TV 2 told me about Bertine in three years, which was fatal and could no longer receive care allowance. Common to all these examples is that one is not ill enough for the Norwegian welfare state to be able to have parents at home with them. The Progress Party wants a warm, caring and co-human welfare society. I'm recording that after seven years with the red-greens, it might indicate that we're moving towards a cold, cynical system society. And to challenge the Council of States – and I don't want you to just refer to the Kaasa Committee, but pending the Kaasa Committee: Can it make sense in those cases where a medical specialist says that this child is so seriously ill that the best thing for the child is that it is at home with its parents, that you get a temporary change in today's legislation that says that you automatically get a allowance, rather than that we have a bureaucracy in Nav that says no?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e418	This is a matter we have discussed before. I would like the opposition to see that this is a very difficult matter, and not try to hit political coins on a difficult matter. I also wish to make a warm offer of care. In fact, it has not been stated that a warm provision of care for children who over many, many years have major problems and require enormous amounts from their surroundings is that mother or father – but very often mother – should feel a responsibility for being at home and caring for the child. What's the system today is that when the children – and it's a cruel truth – approach the terminal phase, as it's called, you get 100 pst. compensated labour costs while at home. Otherwise, according to Norwegian law, you should have a good public offer, and you should also have an offer from the municipality. So we know – I fully agree – that this varies somewhat, and I know that these are difficult questions. Therefore, it should be assessed. That's what the Kaasa Committee did. We have the selection setting for assessment. But in a way to anticipate it based on the stories that are coming now, I think it's wrong, because this is a complex, difficult issue. It's not like people don't get money either. This is about saying that you should have full pay compensation to stay home over the year and take care of very sick children. Neither I nor – I think – really the opposition knows what's best. I have a great deal of understanding that the parents are in a situation, but if the skewer is solved by saying that you have the whole responsibility, I am very much in doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e431	I have to say that I am somewhat surprised at the answer from the Council of State. I expected to get a yes or no answer to a simple question. It is mildly provocative to say that mother should not feel responsibility for being at home, or for that matter father. If you travel around and meet these children and these parents, there is a strong desire to be allowed to be at home with their children at the end of their lifetime. That's what we're talking about: at the end of their lifetime. It is Mother and Father himself who have a burning desire to be with their hopeful ones in such a situation, while combining it with work. If we wait for the Kaasa Committee, we'll talk in two years. Then it is almost five years since the government started the work. Then there are two alternatives: either parents have to leave the workplace and be at home without pay, or you have to put the child in an institution. Does the Council of State really believe that the two alternatives are more marked by a welfare society than that parents are given the opportunity to be at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e440	This is a very difficult discussion and too heavy for a lot of parents to come up with such eccentricities – I'm sorry to say that – that you are now bringing with you when it comes to those who are approaching death. For those who are approaching death, the law today is such that they have the right to care. It's the chronically ill person who's not entitled to it. Then it's clear that there are difficult questions of discretion. It is not that Nav has tightened in. Nav has practised this in accordance with the legislation we have. I'm the first one to think this is hard. But for those who are in the terminal phase, or who – the representative himself – use the words themselves – are dying, the legislation applies, and it is important to be at home with your children. I'm the first to agree with that. Then it's those who have a long-term, chronic disease. Then it's very important that society set up, as it should, with good help, of course, with their parents. That's why we have the arrangement. I don't exclude change – I think it's wise – on any of these rules, but we have to do this in line with a large, wide range that has assessed this. And then we're going to come back quickly after we've gone through the Kaasa Committee settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e451	Three follow-up questions are raised – first by the representative Laila Marie Reiertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e454	‘Slightness’ in relation to parents who want to be home with sick children! There is no «lightness». It's a dignity and a care that we have to embrace and do the best we can to allow one to experience. The party of progress believes that the goal is work for everyone, regardless of the degree of work, but we are constantly getting feedback that more groups in society are not becoming employees, but social security recipients, it is young people dropping out of further education, in worst cases being disadvantaged at too young an age, or people who can contribute a little, but are offered full disability instead of a little work. When one sees that the payment of redundancy money is fairly stable, while the number of people on the measures is increasing at the same time, I think that the government is going on a sleeping cushion in this context called ‘action’. Then my question is, is it so to understand that a person prefers ‘measurers’ rather than workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e463	First, I would like to comment on what I called ‘light vanities’, to say that the legislation is such that when the children are dying, you don’t get to be home, is wrong. The rule is that when the child is dying, one should be able to stay at home. It's for the chronic diseases we're now evaluating how we're going to do it. So to the question. It's hard, I see, to satisfy everyone. Now I have had to stand here for almost all the Questionnaires since I started to answer that we have too little action. Now it's obviously no longer the theme. Now the theme is that we have too many on measures and too few on the labour market. I fully agree: I have always responded to the opposition saying that we have a steady increase in the measures. But we have to be sure that there is a wise use of money. In line with the Brofoss Committee – and really long before the Brofoss Committee came up with its position – I have thought that it is out in the workplace that we are going to get young people. That is why we now also have a job strategy, and we now have a pilot project for the use of redundancy payments as wage subsidies, which is just about to stimulate people to get out of work and help them there. Here we have absolutely common views, and I don't think we're good at trying to pretend that we disagree with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e472	Sylvi Graham – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e476	I can understand that the Council of State finds it difficult to be confronted with examples of evil fates for parents and children. Therefore, I can also understand that she falls into the pit that she calls the opposition easy win. But I also have a story, about a little pike of two and a half years that is now in the terminal phase, and it's not right that the family gets 100 pst. compensated in the terminal phase, as the Council of State has just said. This little dick has one little joy, and it's in the good days to be able to go in kindergarten. Then Nav comes and says that the care allowance should be drawn corresponding to the time that the little dick is occasionally in the nursery. That's not what I call 100 pst. compensation in a terminal phase, I don't call it to facilitate a family that is in a very bad and difficult period, and I understand that they would like to be with the little girl as much as they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e481	First of all, that I don't like being confronted with reality, I just have to say is not right. When you're responsible for what I'm responsible for, you're confronted with a lot of evil and difficult reality. Although we're doing a lot to fix people's reality, we can't do everything. Unfortunately, we can't fix the reality that someone has children who are very sick. What I'm saying very clearly is that according to the Norwegian law and the legislation that we enforce, the parents of children in the terminal phase have a claim for compensation equal to the sickness allowance. I do not know the specific story that says that if children are in kindergarten a few days, they are drawn. I'm going to go in there and see if that's right. I assume then that there are not long periods, because then there is a reasonableness in that. But I fully agree with the representative, if you are in the terminal phase, you have to have 100 pst according to the rules. coverage. If the reality is that you're home with that child, I have to look at those rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e486	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e489	It is true, as the Council of State says, that we have discussed the matter in this Chamber many times, but I have not been so upset about the answers to the Council of State before I stayed today. She calls this a difficult matter and also says that a parent is responsible when someone says that they should be allowed to receive a care allowance. Then I have to say that you're blaming the whole thing, for the background of this is that it's about families with children who have a serious illness, and about parents who want to get care money. In 2003, the Bondevik government and a total increase chose to say: Yes, of course, the parents will be allowed to do so. Under this government, the interpretation of the regulation has been amended so that they no longer receive it. The matter is then difficult for the Council of State, but the matter is as easy. Of course, if the parents want to have a care allowance, if the doctors say they should be allowed to have a care allowance, they should have it, but Nav chooses to overrun. Then my question is, why is it so important for the Council of State not to give them access to the care allowance when the doctors think it's right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e494	I think everyone in this room agrees that what matters to a council is that until a law is changed, I have to deal with the rules of that law. That's the way it is, and if I hadn't, I'd have a pack. Then we can agree that those rules should be revised, and that is what we are looking at now. But the rules are the same today, and they're kind of given in this room, that when you're in periods where you wait for the child to die, of course, your parents have to be at home and take care of those children. There's no doubt about it. Then you have the situation where a child might be chronically ill for 5, 10, 15, 20 years. So the question is, are we going to put society up for a system where parents can and maybe should – because I think we could be in danger of building up public services if we add it to parents – take care of them, or should society have that task? Probably we're going to have a combination of both things, but I'm not ready to conclude with it now, when we've put down a sample that's going to look at it. I don't think we're very disagreeable. I see the wishes and needs of the parents, but I am concerned that now we have to wait for the overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e499	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e502	I first want to mention that the new users came from Nav, and it turns out that for the first time in many years users are a little more satisfied with Nav. I thought that the Nav employees would be happy that the opposition also acknowledges. But that doesn't mean that the council gets away, if she thought so, because despite the fact that it's important not to paint black, there's no reason to paint it either. One of the problems that we're sitting on the Stortinget get most feedback on is that the Nav system can be inmari rigid and bureaucratic. There are feedback coming from the Nav users, and there are feedback coming from the Nav employees. Yesterday – for those of us who are on social media – a letter went from a doctor, a doctor’s statement, his winning career, about a pregnant lady where the doctor was very frustrated by Nav. Another story that we could read about recently in the media was about a Swedish named Daniel – a gentleman’s name that originated in the Bible, which was written a long time ago. Nevertheless, when he came to Nav with a licence that showed that he was a man, he was asked by Nav to go to Sweden and pick up his passport to prove that he was a man. So we have several examples like this, and they're not the employees of Nav's fault. They're doing their best, but this is a politically adopted regime that makes the Nav employees have to deal with so much bureaucracy and so much rigour that they're almost pressured not to see the human being, but just to see the system. So my question is, when will the Council of State intervene in the increasing bureaucracy in Nav and clean up?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e509	I have an apparatus that manages about 330 billion. kr. I think we should be happy that there are some systems around how Nav manages its money, and we can always discuss whether it can be done better. So to the matter that has been in the media now about this person with social benefits associated with pregnancy. I have to say that I think the most serious thing about this matter is that the whole Norwegian journalist group and all Norwegian politicians jump on it and say it's hysterical. If you go in and look at that matter, I think the representative will also see that there is a pretty good rationale behind this. The point is that you can get very early in pregnancy and say that you are pregnant, but unfortunately not all pregnancies result in the birth of a child. That's the sad truth. The rules in Norway are linked to the fact that you are actually bringing down a child, and in some cases we have to say that we have to get a confirmation that the pregnancy has come so far that you are going to bring down a child. I have e.g. have also been confronted in other contexts of social-security abuse related to — without involving it — the fact that people have said that they have had children when they have not had it, etc. We're working on that kind of thing. But this is a pretty rational system, and I think if the representative goes into the matter properly, he'll see that this is a typical case where it makes sense. Daniel, I'm not going to say anything about it, it may not have been a wise decision, but the other matter is a reasonable matter. I am pleased to send the entire statement and the matter over to the representative, Røe Isaksen, who I think will actually understand that this is not as stupid as a unison Norwegian press and opposition says it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e518	The function of these individual cases is primarily to illustrate. I think the Council of State says something important when she says that we can always discuss whether it can get better. The problem is that the Council of State will never be involved in discussing it. She says that – she says that we can always discuss it, that she likes to accept more than input, but my specific question was, When will the Council start the work? I should like to make a concrete proposal to the Council of State: Nav has himself shown that they can save 600 annual works. It's 600 years' worth of work that can help get people out of work, coach people, give people a new chance, by making you a simpler administration of the parental leave scheme – 600 years of work. Governments say no. A very concrete proposal that the government has shot down instead of discussing it. When will the Council of State stop coming up with phrases and start working to get rid of the bureaucratized Nav, for the benefit of users?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e527	Firstly, I don't want to say that there is a need to debureaucratise Nav. I think that's a very political, rhetorical sentence. What I'm very concerned about is that Nav has to use his resources in the most efficient and good way possible all the time. We now have a general review of all the benefits, just to see if they can be better managed. If they can be managed in a less detailed way, but still correctly, they can release resources. In connection with the major modernisation of ICT in Nav that we are doing now, we are precisely driving and streamlining the hub of the future, and then we have to have an ICT system that matches a more streamlined, future performance system. I do this job all day, and I absolutely share the representative's view of the need for us to do this, but I think we are well served not to say in general that it is a big and unnecessary bureaucracy, because then I don't think we can discuss this in a good and constructive way – which I am still inviting to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e536	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Sylvi Graham.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e540	The representative of the Red Isaac spoke about the ancient book of the Bible, where Daniel is a name. That book is also the one I know about where lambs are told that can go again. With regard to the car regime for the disabled, it is not quite that simple. The disability unit tells us that you have to go through the mill one more time to prove that you can get a disabled car, even if you are paralysed for life. In the revised budget, we have now seen that the need for such cars is falling rapidly, and the budget is being reduced accordingly. We can't see why there should be such a big change in the needs of this country. We are concerned about the bureaucracy on this side too and therefore ask the Council of State if she will do anything to simplify the application procedures in the case of disabled cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e547	As regards the cost of cars, it has fluctuated a little. We suggest that there will be more processed applications in 2012, although we made an adjustment to the revised national budget. This is because there is a lag on the payment – the cars will be finished before you pay. There's now no basis for saying that there's a decline. Some of the things the representative is asking for have been done, because we have gone through the whole car system after criticism from the National Audit Office, and we are now looking at the possibility of centralising the system. I share the concern that it takes too long and follow it very closely. I can also tell you that we have posted this to Deloitte, who is now going to go through the whole car welfare system, based on the changes that were made after the National Audit Office's observation, and see if there's any basis for making changes. It's due in August.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e556	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e559	I would like to start from the main questions raised by the representative of the Red Isaacs. Like the Council of State, the undersigned also receives a number of enquiries from dubious Nav users, users who feel that they are not getting through, not being heard, contacting case handlers, and even though the results of the user surveys are a little more positive now — or a little less negative, if you use that term — it is still a long way to go. At the same time, we see that since the Nav reform was adopted and until today, we have got a fragmentation with several special units, administrative units and division of the organisation. More power and decision-making powers have been transferred from local offices to special units and administrative units. It leads to a lot of frustration and a lot of bureaucracy. Will the Council of State take the necessary action and restore more competence and authority to the first line service, so that we get authoritative local offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e570	This is also a discussion you have had in the past – and it is a difficult discussion that Stortinget has had on many occasions – about how to design and concreteize Nav. We now see from the user surveys that people are -- I choose to say -- more contented, not less dissatisfied, because I think that's the basis for saying they're more satisfied. We also see that Nav is more able to keep all the deadlines they set for the proceedings. We also see that Nav is getting better when it comes to the big, difficult task of getting people out of work. I'm the very first to say that I'm not satisfied, that we have a job to do. We have a major evaluation linked to the ongoing Nav reform. I'm not ready to make major changes to Nav's structure now – I think it's wrong. I think what we're best served with now is to let Nav continue the good trend. We're going to have an evaluation, and nothing's toasted. We're going to take the discussions, but now I don't see that need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e579	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e582	We're all happy that Nav is going better, and I also think that once the offices have worked for a while and the structures have settled, it will also be easier for employees. That's why I'm pleased with the discussion that's now starting to come up with these questions, because I think we're all concerned that where it's going to be square and you should have arranged for it to be used more wisely, at least you have to discuss it and maybe move skills down to the local Nav offices. Many of the requests that come — certainly also to the Council of State — come from up-and-coming users, and they come from Nav employees who want to change. So my question is really just, in the process of making it easier -- whether it's websites for parents or what it is: how does the government choose to include the users, who actually have the great expertise on this, and the user organisations, to make it easier and better Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e589	You have systems in Nav with state-of-the-art user advice, and you can probably discuss whether they work optimally or not. I'm trying to keep myself constantly oriented, among other things. with the FFO and other organisations, which are central users, because I think that's very important. Then it's clear that many experience frustrations related to Nav. There may be a lot of complex reasons for that, but there are a lot of people who should be met in a different way. I don't think it can be said to be related to one reason or organisational model or form. I think it's more complex than that. But when it comes to getting a more modernized hub, the big effort we are now making on ICT is one of the most important things. This will allow a good number of people to use network solutions in the long term, and then we will be freed of resources for those who can't. Because I'm very concerned that we can't rely on all people being able to use that system. I think we're going to continue as we suggest, get the ICT system in place, and hopefully we'll see even better satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e598	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e610	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Torgeir Tåldal to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, who has been removed. Question 2, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. Question 6, from the representative of Vigdis Giltun to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e627	This question, from the representative of Torgeir Tåldal to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e630	«The Council of State writes in a chronicle in the newspaper Forward Wednesday, May 9, 2012: «No cut in Mid-Hålogaland». If the Council of State is able to explain why it is necessary to reduce approx. 20 posts over a 3-year period, while the Council of State claims that there will be no cut?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e642	Central Hålogaland police district has a budget of 192.3 million. kr, which is an increase of nearly 4 million. kr from 2011 to 2012. Police districts face high investment needs, which require strict financial management and a good balance between operational and investment expenditure. Within each police district, police officers are responsible for a balanced distribution of resources, which takes care of local people’s needs for police services in the best possible way. The question put by the representative, Mr Träldal, has been put to the Police Directorate, who has again put the question to the police officer in Central Hålogaland. The police director’s feedback suggests that the police district can show good target achievement. Citation: ‘This has been possible through strict acquisition and preparedness priorities. Thus, there is a significant need for material replacement, as well as investment in ICT. The police district’s car park is such that replacements are imperative. The increase in investment funds is not possible without a significant reduction in compensation of employees. This is the consequence of the de-manning project undertaken. The project shall draw up a proposal for staff reductions of approximately 20 years' duration over a three-year period. [[2012-2015]] The police district has accumulated a significant need for the exchange of material and investment in data. It is the responsibility of the police officer to make the necessary investments and maintenance and to make plans for the replacement of materials. The Police Directorate is responsible for overseeing the district and making the necessary decisions to ensure that the district has good financial management.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e662	I register that I am not getting an answer to the question I am asking. Because initially, the chief of police is doing these things, cutting jobs, because investments have to be made — which is also the answer from the Council of State. But then the police chief goes out afterwards and says so, and there are reactions among the inhabitants of Middle Hålogaland. Then the Council of State goes out and writes in a chronicle: ‘No cut in Mid-Hålogaland’ And on the other hand, ‘The Commissioner is expected to use the resources in a way that provides the most effective fight against crime.’ That's all right. But how can a government council go out and say – afterwards – that you don't cut? Isn't this a test of the chief of police? And will the Council of State make sure that these cuts are not done, since in a chronicle, you're going to review what the chief of police is doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e677	To me, it seems that one of these is going to carry out a clean-up, through shifts, through a natural take-off, and that is to spend more money on the necessary investments in the future. That's what's in the answer here. It's the police director's feedback, and it's also an emphasis on how this should be followed up by the police officer's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e682	I must say that I think this, with all due respect, is quite serious, when a minister goes out and tells the people that here it will not be cut. At the same time, you kiss. Then you say that you have to cut down, because you have a good order – it's used here. But you have a coverage of 1.56 – you have decided to have a coverage of two policemen, but the coverage is 1.56. And then you say that you're manning down because you have a good order. There are long call-out distances up there – enormously long – and the cities are laid down because it is not the police, and because they do not get the help they need. We see that in many places. So my question to the Council of State is, will you go in and grant money, so that, as the minister says in the chronicle, there won't be any cut? If you don't, will the minister go out and complain to the people that she has led them behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e689	What I can stress on behalf of the Minister of Justice is that preparedness and security to the public are still to be given priority. Then the total number of annual works will be reduced. It sounds to me as if some of these years have already been reduced because it has been vigilant in settings. However, at the same time, acquisitions of different types should be strengthened, both in the replacement of material and in investment within ICT. Let me give you further details of the follow-up that is possible with the Minister of Justice. I also need to make sure that she gets the additional questions sent to Tåldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e700	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e703	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions, which are answered correctly by the Minister for Transport: ‘The mining industry in Norway has a high growth potential. This applies to everything from ordinary gravel to noble stones, but often the possibilities for this type of industrial development are halted by environmental regulations. How, for example, does the Council of State view new mining operations in the Røros region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e712	The question from Bredvold contains two different problem options. The first aspect is whether there are known occurrences in the area that have the potential to provide the basis for new mining operations. There are currently some prospecting activities in the Røros area. The Røros area is both the municipality of Røros and the surrounding municipalities. So far, the results of several studies are positive and show that there is a potential for finding new mineral deposits in the area, or that existing occurrences may be larger than what you know today. Let me stress, however, that there is still a long way to go before it can be concluded that there are ore resources of such size that there can be a basis for new operations. Before we get there, if necessary, it says that extensive research work. As far as I know, the companies that carry out research in the area today have plans to continue with this. The second aspect of the issue is whether there are conditions in the Røros area related to the planning and environmental legislation that could impede the start-up of new mining operations if drift-worthy occurrences are detected in the area. The Røros area is on the UNESCO World Heritage List, and any new mining operations will have to be reviewed and adapted. There will be extensive reindeer operations in the area, and this will also have to be taken into account when starting new operations. Parts of the area with the potential to detect the presence of propellant ores are located in the Forolhogna National Park. Rules are laid down to allow mining operations within the national park. The condition for such operations will be that access to the occurrence takes place outside the national park’s borders. This will mean that access to the occurrence must take place via underground mines. There are also rules that allow some infrastructure to be built within the national park, such as: Aerial yachts. A number of permissions must be in place before any mining operation can begin. Several of the most important permits must be granted by the municipalities where the presence is located. New mining activities will also require permission from central authorities, such as: permit from the Directorate for Climate and Fire, following the pollution legislation and from the Directorate for Mineral Management, according to mineral laws. There is currently no reason to advance the outcome of such processes until one has an overview of the relevant arrangements, such as: the amount and control of any emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e733	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is the second time I have asked this question, and this is the second time the expert council is not here – but I am happy that someone can answer. But it also makes the follow-up question a little different from what I thought. That's why I'm going to come back to this question in the autumn, because this is an important industry. The industry currently employs approx. 5,000. It has a value of approx. 11 B.C.E. kr, and the export value is approx. 6 B.C.E. kr. There are great opportunities for this to be increased, and that is why I am putting this on the agenda and going to put it on the agenda later, because I believe this is an important matter that we have to work on. This is also about many district jobs, so it should be believed that, in line with the Progress Party, of course, the Centre too is interested in getting jobs out in the districts where this is possible. I could ask you a specific question. A strategy notification for the mineral industry has been notified. Does the Council know when it's coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e744	That's right – there are good possibilities in the mining industry. The sharp rise in prices of metals and industrial minerals in recent years has led to an increasing interest in reopening and reopening old mines in Norway. This provides opportunities for new jobs in many municipalities with promising mineral resources for years to come. It is true that district work places are something that occupies both the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV, as well as the emphasis that Bredvold brought here. The government has agreed to develop a strategy for mineral nutrition. That work is well under way. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade aims to ensure that this strategy can be put forward during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e751	I would like to thank the Council of State for making the concrete statement that the communication will come in the current year. I look forward to it with excitement. I think many others also look forward to it with excitement, because there are many communities and districts that want it to be a bet on this. The question can also be asked: Why are there more foreign companies than Norwegian interests investigating this in Norway? I have been in contact with several foreign companies that are and will be involved in this. The possibilities are there, and the possibilities are great, so that the 11 billion. kr. I talked about earlier today, can be several more. They can also create many more jobs, plus ring-effects, than the 5,000 we already have today. I hope that the Council of State will talk to several government councils about this, and that this will be taken seriously. Because here, as I said, there are great possibilities, and it's all about everything from the simple, like gravel, to gold, diamonds, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e760	I'll report these points further. Let me just underline, since the starting point here was Røros, that a particularly important permission in this area will be in the regulation plan according to the planning and construction laws. It's too early – and it won't be right – to wonder when such a process can start, and even less speculate about the outcome of that process. And then one, already mentioned, will also have to apply for permission from central authorities. It is about having an overview of the relevant seats, e.g. the amount and control of any emissions before one can handle such a case. But that there are great possibilities in the mining industry in the future, that is absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e773	Then it becomes a transport issue to the Minister for Transport: ‘Estimated growth in transport demand in the largest cities requires increased transport capacity. A large part of the passenger transport will continue to be carried out on the road. New solutions are needed to make better use of road capacity and vehicle capacity. What are government actions in the short and long term through policy priorities, direct allocations and management of so-called reward funds to help develop new solutions that can improve capacity and improve capacity utilisation in urban passenger transport?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e782	Urban areas are right to face major challenges in terms of expected growth in the population. It will affect transport. The aim of the government is to tackle the growth of passenger transport with public transport, cycling and walking. In the Climate Action Communication, we state that public transport measures and bicycle measures should be given increased priority in the allocation of traffic permits. The government will increase railway investment. We have now done so year after year, and we will continue to do so, but also increase state support for investment in and operation of municipal public transport and other environmentally friendly modes of transport. The Government’s plans for walking and cycling, the development of the railways and the deployment of other public transport will be presented in the National Transport Plan Communication 2014-2023, which will be presented in spring 2013. In this message, we will also talk about how we want to cooperate with city and county municipalities to achieve our ambitious objectives for transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e789	Thanks for the answer. It is true, as the Council of State says, that there is expected to be a population growth in the largest cities in the next decades, which means that we will have a sharp increase in transport demand. The government, as the Council of State also rightly says, has put the reward scheme into effect. Where measures implemented do not appear to be expected, i.e. within the reward scheme, funds have been withheld pending new and improved solutions. In Bergen, as is known in the course of development, there is a project, Spontaneous Interconnection, by car, bus, track and taxi, which in a new way will be able to improve the exploitation of today's vehicle fleet and thus reduce decommissioning problems during rush time. Is it possible that this project can also receive rewards?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e798	In the context of the new National Transport Plan, we have asked the ETAs in their proposal to look at how the state can come closer, both in urban areas and otherwise, to ensure more public transport, more cycling and walking. We also have notice that we are now going through the four four-year agreements that have been concluded, to see if that is the way we are going to set up in the future, or have more concrete urban packages in the individual area. To Spontan Interconnection: I have been informed about that project, and I think it is exciting. I'll look at whether and how we can follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e807	That's very good. The participants in the Spontaneous interconnection project are several of the major companies in the Sandsli/Kokstad area, among others. Statoil. Thus, large enterprises take part in the responsibility for contributing to socially efficient passenger transport solutions in a district with large oil-related business clusters, large planned expansion and increasing demand for passenger transport to and from work. Hordaland County has confirmed a few days ago that they are using financial resources both in 2013 and 2014. So far they haven't contributed financially, but now they do. It shows that this is a project that is interesting precisely to increase the transport capacity for passenger transport — and in particular during rush hours. There is also a project that brings international attention. Can the Ministry of Transport, possibly in ways other than the reward scheme, also contribute – because much of this is technology development?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e816	It's under the control of the State Road Administration itself the project is planned, and it's been going on over a certain period of time. In this way, it is well prepared and, I believe, can be transferred to other urban areas – if that is the case. Which way we can now contribute from the department's side, and if we're going to contribute, I'm going to come back to. The information here that Hordaland County goes in with funds is new to me; there are information that is a few days old. But I will promise the representative Sortevik that I will check this matter more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e827	I would like to ask the following questions from the Minister for Transport: ‘In the development of double tracks for railway along Mjösa, a lot of mud has to be replaced with more stable mass. The mud estimated to be approx. 14,000 truckloads, to be emptied back in Mjösa, and it is feared, among other things. will have consequences for water quality and fauna. What will the Council of State do to prevent this deterioration of Mjösa?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e836	The E6-Dovrebane Joint Project builds inter alia: new double track for the Dovrebanen along Mjøsa from Minnesund in Eidsvoll municipality to Kleverud in the municipality of Stange. The project is a collaboration between the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency and is implemented in accordance with approved municipal sub-plans and regulatory plans. Parts of the railway shall be laid down in Mjösa – built up by bombs from tunnels and intersections from other parts of the project. Geotechnical studies and assessments indicate a need for mass replacement during the flooding in Mjösa to meet stability requirements and maximum sentences for the new double track. According to the pollution regulation § 22-6, the joint project has sought permission from the County of Oslo and Akershus and County of Hedmark to deposit up to 370,000 m3 of the mass in Mjösa. The Members have put the application to the hearing by the deadline of 1 June of this year, so that all parties to the case have the opportunity to make their views known. The Norwegian Institute of Water Research, NIVA, is committed to the joint project to provide a professional assessment of particle spraying as a result of the requested landfilling and environmental impact assessment in that context. On this basis, the polluters will consider the application from the joint project. Until Mjösa is allowed to be deposited, the joint project will excavate and deposit land-based discharges. This will be done in understanding with the statesmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e846	I thank the Council of State for putting this issue into practice. There are many who are anxious about what is happening now, or can happen, by filling back so much of this mud – and what consequences it will have for the environment, for fauna, for water quality, etc. You also think about the quality of life that very many – many, many thousands – have by staying in and around Mjösa, which is a recreational area. That being said, of course, everyone is happy that we're getting railway development, so there's no doubt about it. But it's the mud that you dig up from the bottom – 370,000 m3 – that's going back to Mjøsa. Then my simple question is, couldn't you put this mud somewhere else, so that it doesn't cause anxiety and danger of environmental disruption and destruction?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e858	It's just as Bredvold says, there's a lot of people who are happy that the joint project is going on. It's going to mean tough new opportunities, not least for people and businesses in the interior. The question of dredging was also related to the clarifications to be made prior to the decision to initiate. As I have now done well, the location of this mud is judged with the greatest seriousness, and it is going to be done in line with the characteristics of the environment and pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e865	I thank the Council once again for the answer. I don't see why you should have muddled back in Mjösa. There must be other places to put this mud – as you do today; you put it on land. I'm absolutely sure there's a provision on this mud. There are a lot of people who want to fill up their property somehow. I think this wouldn't have been necessary, and it would also be economics to get it out. It's taking the chance of ruining the quality of Mjösa, which is known for having a good quality. Many, many thousands use Mjøsa as a recreational area. It's about water quality for those who take their drinking water from Mjösa, and it's also about fauna that can be disturbed – and many other things. I don't understand why by putting the mud back in Mjösa we are going to take the chance to destroy something that is very good today. I think that will have major consequences that we may not be aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e872	I register the representative of Bredvold's unrest. It is probably divided by several – including both the State Road Service and the Railway Agency, which are responsible for the development here, and the bodies responsible for managing and enforcing the various decisions relating to the environment and pollution. Based on what has been clarified so far – the procedure currently under way, both with regard to the application and the ring that has been issued, which is due on 1 June, and in addition to an own mission to NIVA – I believe that we are all now aware that the decision itself will be signed at a later date, after all the conditions have been resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e883	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Previous rv. 862, now fv. 862 between Tromsø and Finnsnes, has ferry connections between Brensholmen and Bothnhamn on Senja. This ferry link is not full-year-old, i.e. the ferry doesn't go in winter. Today's operation of the ferry link is mainly self-financing, and fv. 862 is also an important national tourist route, but it also has a very important impact on business and the residents of the county. The Council of State will contribute to the transport link by national tourist route, e.g. 862, becomes full-year-old?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e892	It's right that fv. 862 on Senja is a national tourist road. The road goes from Bothhamn to Grylfjord. The Botnhamn-Brensholmen holiday section is not part of the national tourist road. The route provided for the ferry section is a county responsibility. It is therefore necessary to address questions concerning the extended route arrangements for the ferry link to the municipality of Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e897	I thank the Council of State for the information, for the answer. This is in so far information that I am well familiar with. But the reason I'm raising this question in Stortinget is that I'm elected to Troms County, and of course I'm also an ombudsman for the people of Troms. I have registered that the ferry service in Troms County has been put under a heavy pressure, even in the case of other ferry services where you cut in the route offer. So this is a big challenge. In the case of national tourist roads, you can say that you stop there. But when you see the tourist flow that is in summer time – there are a lot of people who also use the ferry to Kåløya in order to get to Tromsø – the question can also be: When you say ‘national tourist route’, are there only empty words, or will there be any means? But the question that I want to ask the Council of State, who knows the whole country and knows the ferry offer across the country, is: does the Council of State need the ferry link to become a state responsibility – beyond the national road?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e906	Let me first say that where there is a national tourist road, it is basically followed by significant means – in the sense that a lot of funds have been used to upgrade the 18 routes that are now being marketed together, and where there is also a great potential for local profiling both culture, food and other activities. So to the question of ferries, it is that in the context of the management reform, it was preceded by – we should call it a clean-up, a delimitation when it comes to what should be state-owned, what should be state-owned, and a redundancy in connection with it. So far I haven't seen the need to go into that problem with a view to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e913	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When national roads were transferred to state roads, there was actually a gift that no one would have, because it costs a lot to drive these. What was the result for Troms was that the quality of these sections of the road that were transferred was deficient. The funds have not been included, so the county has had to give priority to using more funds on the road network itself. This also affects the ferry link and, of course, many ferry connections are crucial for local communities and for their development. Does the Council of State see any possibility in future budgets – I know that I am not being given an answer in relation to the specific budgets – to think anew about financing ferry operations in Norway, both locally and in the case of national road haulage operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e922	Let me first point out that when one carried out a transfer of many county roads, and with the corresponding ferry routes, to the county municipalities, it also followed with means: first of all, in relation to the standard that was, and second of all, extra means – this billion that has been running every year thereafter – and also an interest compensation scheme. So I see, on the one hand, that the county councils are actually now spending more money on this part of the road network than the state did. I also see that there is now a first-time need for a special upgrade – should we call it a special review – to look at: Do we have the right distribution? Do we also have a proper distribution of costs? We shall do so in connection with the national transport plan. A native country road program can be a theme there, with trails attached to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e933	This question, from the representative of Vigdis Giltun to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will, like the other questions in this question area, be answered by the Minister of Transport, now on behalf of the Minister of Health and Care, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e936	It's good for ministers who can be used for everything! «The closure at Moss Hospital has led to further pressure at Fredrikstad Hospital. On the 8th floor section, cancerous, seriously ill people are placed in the corridor. The department has only four toilets and showers, and there is little room for privacy for those in the hallway. This is unworthy, the working conditions labor on the employees, and it may also prevent evacuation in the event of fire. What compensation measures have been put in place at Fredrikstad Hospital as a result of hospital flooding and patients lying in the corridors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e945	As you know, the construction of a new hospital in Eastfold is under way. The new hospital shall consist of a new building on Kalnes and the upgrading of the Moss hospital. So it's not right that Moss hospital should be laid down. The conversion that started on 24 April is part of the plan. Among other things, inpatient emergency preparedness was collected at the Hospital Østfold Fredrikstad. This is necessary to start work on introducing new forms of work adapted to the new hospital and to be able to rebuild the Moss premises. Health South-East RHF has asked the Hospital Eastfold to assess the situation after the conversion. They have launched many measures in the conversion of somatic emergency preparedness. These measures should contribute to faster diagnosis, appropriate treatment, reduced bedtime and more efficient logistics. The measures are not fully in place after the conversion. Hospital management has had follow-up meetings each week, where risk assessment has been a regular topic, including: fire safety. Management closely follows the situation in order to be able to correct undesirable situations, including: distribution of beds between different disciplines. The Minister of Health has been informed that management has close dialogue with the trustees and that they have discussed the situation with the user committee and the patient and user representatives. Over 1000 employees have been involved in the conversion. The level of activity shall not have been reduced at this time, but there have been challenges related to the capacity of inpatients. The Hospital Østfold has also had capacity problems for cancer patients due to the growing need for such treatment. The Hospital Østfold Moss shall be further developed for major tasks in planned activities and to provide services to patients with chronic diseases. Seriously ill cancer patients have been treated mainly at the Hospital Østfold Fredrikstad. The conversion of emergency preparedness creates room for multiple cancer patients to be treated at the Hospital Østfold Moss. The new hospital, for about five billion. kr, shall be ready in 2016, with a completely new hospital in Kalnes and upgraded construction in Moss. This will provide 300 000 Eastern folds with a good offer in the future. The measures now being implemented will provide a more equivalent and good specialist healthcare service in the years to come until a new hospital is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e962	As I understand it, the compensation measures that should have been introduced have not come into place. Now it's four years until the hospital in Kalnes is finished. That hospital will also have no more places than the original Hospital Eastfold had. There is no increase in capacity, despite the fact that the population is increasing to about 300000, from 210 000. So there's going to be so much better and bigger capacity, other than that it's going to be a newer hospital, I guess it's doubtful. What worries me, and as I had hoped, the Council of State would also worry, is what will now happen in these four years, when there are corridor Asians and too little capacity in Fredrikstad Hospital to take on the tasks they have been assigned, among other things. by Moss. There are 7 000 to 8 000 patients per year, as well as Corridor Asians in the past. Does the Council of State consider that the decision to close the Moss emergency room has taken sufficient account of bed capacity, manning situation, fire safety, risk of infection, professional secrecy and the patient's right to dignity during hospitalisation, or is it the economy that now governs the development of the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e969	The decisions taken have been taken. However, what is important in the future is to put in place the measures planned and to continue with both the close dialogue that the management has with the trustees, and the discussions that must also be done with the user selection and with the patient and user environment in order to achieve as good treatment and follow-up as possible also in the four years that lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e974	The State Health Authority carried out a review of its hospitals and corridors in 1998 and was strongly critical of the way hospitals use the capacity they do not have, i.e. the corridors. Hospitals refer to the hospital law and the obligation to provide immediate help, and therefore have a prioritized intake of immediate help, even if it conflicts with, among other things. the fire regulations. Little or nothing has been done at hospitals on a national basis to avoid increasing the problem. This was said in 1998, 14 years ago. Even planned changes are continued when you know that there is an overload in hospitals and Corridor Asiates. Every day, these patients are hit in the hall. So in the department I'm talking about, there are four toilets in the hallway, there are no toilets or showers in the rooms. This is unworthy, and it wears on the staff. Does the Council of State think it's going to be like this for four more years, until Kalnes is done?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e983	Let me underline that it should not be like this for four years to come. The Hospital Østfold is experiencing an increasing need for cancer treatment. It is not a desirable situation for patients to be in the process, and there is a great deal of attention to changing this situation. The current conversion is necessary to facilitate a new hospital in Eastfold to be completed in 2016. However, Health South-East has assured the Minister of Health that the Hospital Eastfold is following developments closely, ensuring that the necessary measures are taken to prevent patients from being stopped at the time, and that fire safety conditions are followed up in a defensive manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e990	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-23.ana.ud1775e1003	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
