ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e117	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e125	On behalf of Frøydis Elisabeth Sund, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Jette F. Christensen, Stine Renate Håheim, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to propose amendments to the Basic Law § 12, 50 and 61 on the introduction of 16 years of voting rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e130	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Mr Träldal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e135	President! It's exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e140	The President understands that the proposal is deferred. The representative of Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e145	On behalf of Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for restrictions on granting permanent residence permits to non-residents in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e150	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will draw attention to the fact that the meeting continues beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e179	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and six lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e190	Defence is one of the fundamental tasks of the state. Today, we are in a break-up between a demanding operation in Afghanistan – and an increasingly demanding phase of it – and more focused on domestic defence tasks. Nevertheless, we should always be prepared to participate in foreign operations. Fresh experience shows that the mandate and request for this can be speeded up. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on a major and important matter. The proposition addresses a wide range of central themes, searing the main weight both there and in the setting naturally on the Air Force. Swivel if the long-term planning period is four years, the decisions taken tonight will carry for many decades to come. Mainly in this context, the Committee has agreed to the largest acquisition of defence in modern times and the largest investment in mainland Norway and has agreed to the acquisition of up to 52 F-35 fighter aircraft. An overall committee is also at the forefront of security and defence policy, which states that Norway is anchored in NATO and that transatlantic relations are essential to our security. There is a broad consensus in the Committee on Ørland as the main base for fighter aircraft, and that it should be a permanent, forward-looking operating base in North Norway. A Joint Committee takes important steps to reform the Army and facilitate a modern, robust and forward-looking cyber defence. Furthermore, a Joint Committee expresses clear expectations for a completely required reform of personnel and competences in the defence sector, which will be a fundamental prerequisite for future defence and for soldiers, officers and civil servants. So we're going to be together a lot. We have to share that with each other. At the same time, what is real, material and important disagreements must not be hidden. While we largely agree on what defence we want, at the same time we disagree on what defence we really have today. We also disagree on whether the government's proposals bring us closer to the defence we should have. The Government claims that there is a balance between tasks, structure and resources, and that this balance is continued in their proposal for a long-term plan. No matter how much it had pleased me that this actually voted, right, along with the rest of the opposition, that the government's image does not match reality. This is a fundamental difference, in principle, in how to deal with the further activities of the defence. This is what is at the heart of the political disagreement about defence, not about localisation. This is where the debate should be conducted. From the Right we want a debate on just these things, but it has proved to be difficult. There are several reasons for this. The government, in turn, has provided a weak and partly inadequate basis for decision-making to the Storting in an important defence case. The proposal contains proposals for decisions that will have a significant impact on defence, on employees and on more communities in Norway, both in the short and long term. Neither premise, discretion nor consequences are made visible and adequately justified. In this way, as far as this proposition is concerned, it is a practice of the ministry. It has also been pointed out in the past from this pulpit. The Committee has sought to address this by raising 291 follow-up questions. All questions and answers are attached to the setting. It is not acceptable to have such a poor decision-making basis for Stortinget, as the opposition has mentioned in detail in the setting. Such a decisive premise for the long term as the economic planning assumptions are described above two sides of the proposition. When the government cannot or will not provide answers to entirely fundamental economic and operational questions in its proposals, they make it difficult for the sea to gather the necessary support. There are a wide range of issues that should be debated. How do we ensure a solid and forward-looking reform of personnel and competences that a total increase is behind? How do we ensure even better follow-up of our veterans? This evening, the biggest acquisition ever in the Army, the new armored vehicle, will be worth 10 billion. kr. There's a bunch of pussies in the back. We should discuss the realism of operating the new maritime defence ship structure with new and important capacities within a flat operating budget. How could we get far more military capability out of Homeland than we do today? We should also discuss the concerns related to the operating costs of the elements proposed by the Defence Manager, and the government proposed to maintain. These costs run from day one in the planning period, while the money spent on the defence budget to contribute to this coverage will only be fully effective in the last year of the planning period. An even more important issue is the long-term sustainability of the structure, the factors referred to by the head of defence in his principal opinion as ‘demanding’, or a defence structure described by the FFI as fragile and marginal — not least in view of the share of the costs of the acquisition of fighter aircraft that must now be taken within the defence budget. That's going to increase by between 9.5 billion. kr and 15,5 brd. kr. It is therefore a little surprising that the Minister of Defense has only attacked the opposition for what he calls the refusal of decision on two individual questions in the Air Force. State councillor Espen Barth Eide accuses today's VG opposition of running tactical games. In addition, the State Secretary of the Council of State claims that the opposition is lying and leads the voters behind the light – because we insist on being factually in disagreement with the government! These are characteristics I think government officials should stay too good at. I still choose to focus on the positive. I would like to commend the government for the work it has started on thinking about a comprehensive personnel and competence reform in the defence sector. In the light of changing societal and demographic trends, there is no doubt that defence needs to be adapted to a new challenge and time in this area as well. It must lead to an overall review of the order system and the current regime for branch boards. From the Right, we want a quick clarification of the question of a newly-designed command system according to NATO standards, which opens up to re-grown specialists. We support such a realignment. There must also be a much greater diversity in the recruitment of defence, and better solutions must be created. The interaction with civil society must be strengthened and deepened. Normalisation must be a crossword, while the professional-military profession must be pure-bred where necessary. In the long term, this reform is probably even more important than the military aircraft acquisition. The soldiers – the humans – are our most important resource. The Committee has wished to recognise this in the form that the Committee may, by means of comments and through the design of the nomination, place the Head of Staff and Competences first among the sections relating to organisation and operational capability – even before the defence sectors. It's a symbolic but equally very important action. The veterans of Defense also constitute a resource – they are the same people, the same soldiers after the end of service. There has been a considerable effort to strengthen the follow-up and recognition of the veterans of Defence in recent years, and I also want to commend the government for that. Important work is done, and important work remains. 27 of the 126 action points of the action plan have been implemented. At the same time, it is important to further improve the work of veterans. The majority of the Committee, i.e. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, will do this by looking at the possibility of a new, simplified and improved service-based arrangement for economic compensation, rather than plunging further into today's unbridled amount of substitution-based schemes. We also ask that we look at how civil governance can be organised according to the "one-door" principle. The core of the defence's mission is to provide operational capability. In the long-term plan process, the right has been accused of prioritising asphalt to operational capability. That's not right. Overall, our proposals will improve the operational capacity of defence to a greater extent than the government's proposals. Our proposal to equip the Heimeverten will mean a large increase in rural military capability – the government will cut in the top end of the Home Guard, the forces of effort, and continue an excessive structure with too little training. The maintenance of CRC Mågerø ensures the necessary toughness and redundancy for a very important function in a vulnerable system. These are clear technical arguments for two CRCs. Right wants in the long run three mechanized manoeuvring battalions in the Army. Making the right changes in order and pace, and following solid and verifiable analyses, creates anchoring and predictability in the organisation. It can reduce loss of competence and also reduce costs. In fact, at a time when defence is already under financial pressure, saving hundreds of millions in removal and investment costs over the next few years — in addition to avoiding loss of skills and increasing commuting costs — is a point. All these proposals will increase the operational capability of Defence. Since 2008, the right has proposed a total increase of 2.65 billion in defence budgets. kr, so that more can be flown, sailed more and practiced more. We have shown – and we show in this setting – both the ability to convert and the willingness to pay. The acquisition of combat lye is the overwhelming single factor in the future functioning of the defence – both operationally and economically. Sickness if the acquisition is still associated with a degree of uncertainty both economically and in time, this matter is so important that the Right will contribute to the creation of consensus and predictability for the acquisition and for the sustainability of the defence in the light of it. The Chief of Defence points out in clear order the need to maintain the ambition of 52 aeroplanes in order to ensure the defence's ability to perform all assigned tasks. It is therefore with some wonder that we have noticed the government's proposal that over time can contribute to unnecessary uncertainty about the acquisition and level of ambition. Decisions in the Storting in front of each acquisition are a breach of normal acquisition practices, and an invitation to periodic rematch and rebalancing through cuts in numbers. The reasons given by the government, namely that this means greater political control and the ability to deal with changing assumptions in the project, do not change this picture. The size shall also, as a matter of fact, be continuously and thoroughly informed of any changes to the project by means of a normal procurement procedure. Despite the importance of the fighter planes, the chief of defense recommended an additional 37.5 billion in his professional military council. kr for the acquisition. Instead, the government is adding an extra allocation of 22 billion. kr – 28 br. kr. The increase in the share of the additional costs included in the defence framework will have a major impact on the structure and ability of the defence in other areas. The Minister of Defense says that the planes have to stand somewhere, and he has said it quite correctly. Right-wing support, like a broad majority in the Committee, Ørland as the main base for fighter aircraft. From an overall assessment, Ørland is considered best suited for bringing together the main part of the Air Force Production. In addition, the right will have a permanent, forward base further north, but unlike the government we want a solution where it – given important assumptions – is sought established in Bodø. The government has in its calculations provided that the entire bill of approx. Three billion. kr to move the runway in Bodø is added to the Defence. Based on an overall assessment, the Right believes that there should be a solution based on contributions from all relevant actors, including the Defence, who, in our view, cannot expect to leave Bodø free of charge or with financial gain, as the government's alternative suggests. These factors will determine whether the Bodø option is feasible. It's a clear assumption for the Right that the defense won't be stuck with the bill alone. Together with the Christian People's Party, we have therefore promoted the proposal: ‘The government asks the Government to find a solution where an advanced operating base for fighter aircraft in North Norway is established in Bodø.’ The sum of the proposals for the Rygge Military Air Station is poorly justified and supported. As long as it is chosen to maintain HV-01 and helicopter operations on standby, it will result in a significant need for support functions with associated infrastructure and area. South Norway’s largest ammunition warehouse, the only landing and distribution point for military fuel, and extensive communications and ICT infrastructure are located on Rygge. These are functions that need to be continued, but the cost and arrangements for this are not visible. Therefore, the right will have a much more detailed analysis of the feasibility, impact and cost analysis and the whole of the proposals, including the possible input of other activities. Right is and has always been willing to make difficult decisions to make changes in the Defence. We have shown this for a long time – not least when we were in government from 2001 to 2005. But then there has to be talk about the right transitions, which give real and measurable operational gains or economic savings. In addition, they must be based on sound analyses and verifiable economic and professional premises. In our opinion, the government's proposals do not meet these conditions. I would like to take up with that the proposal on which the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e252	The representative ine M. Eriksen Soreide has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e257	At a conference in charge of the two largest commanding organizations in the defense of beautiful Lillestrøm earlier in the spring, the committee chairman said: it is important that the location issues do not overshadow the big lines. It was so well said that I noted it correctly. Unfortunately, this has not been followed up by the Right in the work on the long-term plan. It was the bases and location that became the big thing on the Right. Right will not make any changes to the base structure of the Air Force — everything should be as it is today. So I have two questions for the committee chairman: is she satisfied with the impression that an outsider is left with, about what has been the most important thing on the Right's part when dealing with this long-term plan? And question 2: What are the security or defence policy considerations behind the Right's assessment of not making decisions on the location of forward fighter base in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e266	Little stream is a beautiful place. I would say that the current is an almost even more beautiful place! Interestingly, just this line comes from the representative Sverre Myrli. Because there's a party that has helped to make the base question overshadow all the other questions, it's just the Workers' Party. As I put significant emphasis on in my main post, this is all about anything other than base structure. It is about the long lines of security policy, it is about reform of personnel and competences in defence, and it is not least about the acquisition of combat aircraft, which is overwhelming and essential. As the Minister of Defense also says, the planes have to stand somewhere. We fully agree with the government that Ørland is going to be the main base for fighter aircraft, but we have another preferred solution for the advanced operating base. We think it would be completely possible to find a solution to that question. That's why we, together with the Christian People's Party, have asked the government to work out a solution that includes Bodø as a forward-looking operating base in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e275	In the setting on page 27 there is a comment from the Progress Party and the Right that goes out on the following: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right have taken note of the reasons why the Government proposes to present each individual acquisition decision to the Stortinget, but nevertheless consider that this deviation from established practice is suitable for creating unnecessary unforeseeableness around a project that will define the future development of defence in the decades to come.’ The head of the committee is in opposition, and one would think that she was concerned that the Storting should have her hand on the steering wheel as much as possible in the fighter aircraft purchase, so I have two questions: Firstly, can the chairman of the committee explain why one does not want to have as good a management as possible? Secondly, does not the Chairman of the Committee believe that the openings for rematches that lie in wanting Bodø to advance the operating base and cooperation with the Progress Party, which has not been able to decide at all, create greater uncertainty for those involved than the proposals of the Government Parties make?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e287	This is also an interesting question all the time the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen and his party really did not want to buy fighter aircraft at all, and if they were to buy, there would be someone other than the Stortinget now joins in unanimously today. It's also interesting that this line comes from Snorre Serigstad Valen, because he's in the government that's now conducting the flight purchase. This means that it is the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen and SV who obviously do not trust their own government for the implementation of this acquisition. It's going to be right today, along with the rest of the Storting, to decide that you can acquire up to 52 aircraft, but we also wanted it to be under normal purchasing procedure. It is almost tempting to ask the question back to the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen: What is it about the government's behaviour that makes SV think it is so important to obtain annual acquisition decisions in Stortinget in front of each new cabin with fighter aircraft purchase?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e294	On the right, several points in the motion express concern about the economic balance of the defence today. The right recognises that the new fighter aircraft will entail both high investment costs and increased operational costs for the Defence in the years to come. At the same time, the Right makes it clear that they will not be involved in taking the major structural measures that the government is doing to ensure the economic balance of defence. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Eriksen Soreide, what is the Right solution to finance the defence package that the party has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e299	I've already answered that question through my main post, but I like to repeat the main points. We also want changes, just like what the government is doing, so you're laying the main base on Orland. You get a forward-looking operation base in North Norway, but you have a different solution for where it's going to be. As I said, we want to save the cost of moving and investing several hundred million dollars in the coming years by not going in for some of the moves and changes that the government is adding up to. There are important operational means for the Defense in the demanding phase into which it is now going, with the phase-in of new fighter aircraft. So since 2008, we've also proposed adding 2.65 billion. kr more to the Defence, which would thus ensure the operation of the capabilities we believe are necessary and important in the Defence, even in the case of fighter aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e310	In a lecture in Oslo Military Society in 1995, the then Chief of Defense Arne Solli presented a new defence system with major changes in the defence structure. Among other things, he said:\t\t You ‘It is not just an adaptation of the structure of war and peace to the changing security policy assumptions and economic framework, but a complete reorganization of our way of operating the defence’s overall operations.’ The recognition that the defense we had during the Cold War had to be reorganized was being seriously reorganized, and we had had a defense study and a defence commission. According to Defense Chief Solli, there was a need for a 'complete reorganization'. That was a clear speech! In St. prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 was originally called: ‘The defence is in a deep and sustained structural crisis. Two fundamental imbalances characterise the situation: the size of the defence is out of proportion to the resources it is allocated and the organisation of the defence is not suitable for the task of the future.» It can't be said more clearly. The problems of Norwegian defence in putting relevant units on short notice to NATO's Kosovo actions became a wake-up call. We just didn't have a defense that was adapted to the time. Something had to be done, and the biggest reorganization in the public sector over time was in progress. We got St.prp. No 45 in 2001, St.prp. No 42 in 2004, St.prp. No 48 in 2008 – and now Prop. 73 S in 2012, the fourth long-term plan we are modernizing the Defense. Now we're approaching the end of the basic transition that started 10 to 15 years ago. The defense has changed from a ‘cold war-invading defense’ to a modern defense of intervention. The public sector must constantly change — so will the defence, so there will certainly be changes in the future, but not as far-reaching changes as the defence has been over the last few years. There is reason to commend those who have been involved in the major changes: the management of the defence and all the employees of the defence, both military, civil and military, and first-time soldiers. But I will also praise changing governments and changing numbers of bigots for the job that is done, and as it says: Creeping should be a good listener, for it comes from the heart! In many areas, the main device of the Defence is placed. In 2008, Stortinget decided that the operating headquarters should be added to Retan. The army is solidly established with two heavy footprints, one in the south and one in the north. The maritime defence has renewed the ship structure and has been brought together in the West. The Coast Guard is established in Blackland and is world leader in its class. Now required changes in Air Force are underway, especially the location of our future fighter aircraft. Air defence has not undergone the same structural changes as the Army and Naval Defense have done. It was therefore gratifying that, when examining the previous long-term plan in 2008, the Defence Committee unanimously stated that it was necessary to make changes to the air defence structure with fewer bases. This I will come back to. There has been a broad historical consensus on the main lines of foreign, defence and security policy in Norway. There is agreement on most of it also in this long-term plan, but the policy is now such that it is the areas where there is disagreement, there is attention, and not the areas where there is broad consensus. So also in this plan. Norway must always have the means to combat pressure, aggression or estimation. With modern capabilities and high response capabilities, the Defence shall constitute a war-preventing threshold, entailing high risk and cost to the challenger of Norwegian security and seaworthiness. That's why we have the Defense. When dealing with defence issues, it may seem that we have the Defense because it is important for the community where the Defense is located. Of course, the defence is important to many communities, but the defence must never become an advanced form of district development funds. We don't have the defense bases and garrisons where it's best for the communities – it's Sørreisa, Mågerø, Rygge, Bodø, Ørland, Bardu or Rena. We're going to have them where it's best for the defense. I understand that this can be hard to deal with for some, but that must be the way it is. In the examination of the long-term plan in 2001, there was a discussion on Haslemoen, Hvalsmoen, Eggemoen, Helgelandsmoen, Evjemoen, Fredrikstad, Lahaugmoen, Stavern, Karljohansvern, Torpo, Gråkallen and Kongsvinger. In 2008, there was a discussion about Jåttå, Sola and Bømoen. What do those who wanted to maintain all these camps say today? I haven't met anyone who would suggest that we reestablish the Haslemo, the Helgelandsmoen or the Lahaugmoen – even then discuss it was to lay down these camps a few years back. In my childhood, we had NIKE battery in Nes. It was right to establish these batteries during the cold war at the end of the 1950s, but it was also right to put them down 20 years ago. There are many examples. What kind of defense would we have had if we hadn't made such structural changes? The answer is seaworthy. The interesting thing about structural changes is that the opponents agree with them just a little bit of time has passed. The changes in 2001 were, for example, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Similarly, there were protests against the changes made in 2004. The Progress Party then proposed that you keep the structure from 2001 – which they would have opposed. In 2008, they were also opposed and wanted to maintain the 2004 structure, which they had opposed. And truly, this year they are against the changes that are being made, they want to have the structure of 2008 – of which they were bone-hard opponents! For example, the Progress Party and the Right were: opponents of the establishment of the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters at Reitan in 2008. This year, it's not a word to hear about it – it's said because it was a right decision, and what was decided works right. And – I’ll almost call it a fun, but it’s not a bad idea – in 2008 the Progress Party set up a fourth manoeuvring battalion. Where is that proposal now? So much hasn't changed in four years, has it? It is not, of course, a proposal, simply because it was – and is – a bad proposal. So it's just to prepare: what will be decided today will be the policy of the Progress Party – not this year, but in the discussion of the next long-term plan. Prior to the treatment of the long-term plan by the government and the Stortinge, the head of defence did a thorough job through his professional military council. In particular, I want to commend him for putting forward what are the challenges of our time and the new threats of our time, such as: Cybertrussels. The Chief of Defense's advice, in addition to a number of other engagements, formed the basis for government and government party work on the long-term plan. However, it crystallized some issues where we did not follow the advice of the defense chief. We would not put down the 2nd battalion in the brigade, we would maintain one control and warning station in the Air Force and concluded that it would be in South Travel. We wanted to keep all of today's Orion surveillance aircraft, and we wanted to strengthen the area structure of the Home Guard and maintain the district losses in the Home Guard at Rygge, Terningmoen, Setnesmoen and Drevjamoen, as well as the HV school at Dombås – all of which were proposed to be closed. In addition, we would be clear that the defence will contribute to the co-location of their health services in the new centre to be established when the current Trom military hospital is laid down. When we discuss defence issues, there is often a lot about battalions, squadrons, vehicles, vessels, aircraft, bullets, and powder. It is well and good and also has to do, but none of this works without personnel. So let's not forget the people of such a complex organization as the Defense is. Without humans, none of the systems will work. The government has announced that it will present its own communication to the Government on personnel and competence issues. That's good, because this is a very important topic: what kind of competence does the defence need in the future, and how is this competence to be recruited? What kind of personnel changes will the organisational changes that we are adopting today entail? The protection obligation is one of the main defence foundations. If we take away the duty of protection, we get a different defence and a different society and not least a different relationship between people and society. In addition, we write in 2012, and then continue to discuss, investigate and assess whether we should have a female protection obligation or not, is not very forward-looking. In the notified communication of competence, we should now take the step fully and adopt a decision on the principle of female protection. We have protection obligations, and we have women. Then we should also have female protection obligations. The notification of competence must also review the current command system. When we visit the Departments of Defence, we get many feedback that we need to do something about today's command system. In particular, the feedback is clear when we get into the departmental command system. Here something has to be done. So on to that question in the long-term plan that will probably be given the greatest attention in today's debate — the question of fighter aircraft. It is very gratifying that Norway is fully committed to the acquisition of up to 52 new F-35 fighter aeroplanes. On 6 June 1975 the Stortinget decided by 100 to 19 votes to purchase 72 fighter aircraft of type F-16. It was a wise, correct and forward-looking decision. When F-16 arrived in 1980, it was a great technological and operational leap for the Defense. Norway is a long-distance country with large areas both at land and at sea and with similar large airspace. That's why an operational fighter weapon is extra important. New fighter aircraft are essential for the defence to be able to maintain our security and sovereignty satisfactorily in the future. Kampfly is a basic capacity in our defence structure. Fortunately, there is full agreement on that. The decision we are about to make today is as important and as historic as the decision on F-16 in 1975. From the decision to buy the F-16 was taken in 1975, and until the last plane is phased out, it is likely to take about 45 years. If F-35 could be used for as long as F-16, it's impossible to predict today, but in any case, the acquisition of combat aircraft is the greatest and most important single thing for the Defense in the foreseeable future. Then go to the base question. After thorough assessments of three current bases — Bodø, Ørland and Evenes — both as a base option and as two base alternatives, the government and government parties concluded that it would be right to locate future fighters to one base and that Ørland is the clear best location for such a base. This was in line with the defense chief's recommendations in his professional military council. I am pleased that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are in agreement with the government parties in this, and that today – after all the sun brands – we can have a large majority for such a solution, where Ørland becomes the main base for fighter aircraft. The government and government parties also concluded that, with Ørland’s geographical location, a smaller operating base would be necessary in North Norway. After considering Banak, Bardufoss, Andøya, Bodø and Evenes' divorces, Evenes is clearly the best option, and therefore Evenes is proposed as a forward-looking base, because it is the best option – only for that reason. We don't make decisions about what's the best location of a forward base based on what's best for Bodø, or what's best for Evenes. We choose it from what's best for the Defense and best for Norway. Unfortunately, the right does not – the traditionally defence-friendly party. Old defense friends in the Right must be horrified at how their party has been lately. Unfortunately, the run-up to next year's election campaign has become more important than making good decisions for the Defense. For what is what is what the right do? For months and weeks we have been able to read that the Right would go for Bodø as a fighter aircraft base. But what do they do? Do they promote that? No, they believe that the main base should be established on Ørland, not in Bodø. But the much smaller forward base in North Norway, it will now have the Right in Bodø. So the right will put down today's fighter base in Bodø and replace it with a smaller operating base. Or are we so sure they mean it? Why have they not proposed it? No, they're going to have the government to figure out a forward base in Bodø. The government has assessed it and concluded that it cannot be recommended because the costs will be enormous. No matter how many times the calculator's part Right asks the government to figure out and evaluate this, the answer will be the same. The game around the location of the advanced operation base in North Norway is regrettable. But I will finally announce that there is a great deal of agreement on the large lines and on the acquisition of fighter aircraft, and that today there is also a great deal of agreement and support for the government's proposal to start a new investment project for upgrading and renewing the CV90 armored carriage. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1 to 5 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e383	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e388	It would have been tempting to say that the representative Myrli's posts had a high entertainment value, but I will leave it. My question is about Back and the challenges for Back in view of the decision that the majority in the United Kingdom is going to make today. It is so that some of us are concerned about the consequences of it, not least about the Back Civil Airport will have the financial backbone to pass after the decision we are making today. There is, of course, also an assessment of passenger ceilings, which have been a challenge down there, and the possibility of the civil further development of Back. My questions to the representative Myrli are: how do you want to ensure that Rygge can exist, not least as a precautionary measure? What kind of agreements and economic foundation underpin that? How expensive will it be in the future, when you make the decision you are making today – what will be the future picture of the defence cost of Smoking? And do you want to remove the passenger roof, which is a limitation for Smoking today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e397	It was an interesting question from the representative of the Progress Party. Let me first repeat what I said in my main post: Whether it's Rygge or other localization issues, we have to make the decisions that are best for the Defense, not what's best for Eastfold, Northland or others. What's the best thing for the defense? Back shall pass as the base of the Defense, HV shall be on the Back, and Rygge shall be the base of the helicopter standby. At the same time, however, we believe it is right that the Inspector General of the Air Force and the senior management of the Air Force, who has had a temporary stay at Rygge, be moved to Bodø. Bodø is Norway's operational defence capital, and Bodø is also the civil aviation capital of Norway. Interestingly, the Nordland representative Ellingsen is opposed to moving this to Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e404	I am quite sure that 2 000 – 3 000 interested affiliated employees in Bodø are aware of the brutal mention of their suitability for the future by the representative Myrlis. The Government Parties have chosen to side with large parts of the Defence Commander’s military professional advice, including funding of fighter aircraft programmes. What you do this time on the government side is you really want to choke the defense budget by inputting parts of the funding – $9.5 billion. SEK-15,5 billion. kr – over a ten-year period of operation of the defence budget. Is it with open eyes that today's government parties really want to strangle the defence budget in such a brutal way? Is it also open-minded to set aside all future necessary defence investments in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e413	That's an interesting question. The reason why we have made changes in the Air Force, in the defence structure, and today should make further changes is that we need more money for investment. Kampfly is the second largest, but we are also facing other major investments in defence for years to come. That is why we are very pleased and very pleased that we have reached an agreement that parts of the big fighter aircraft acquisition are to be taken within the Defence budgets, and parts of it are to be further financed from Stortinget. I have never stated the suitability of the employees at Bodø Main Aviation Station – it is very highly qualified people who do a very good job every day. But the representative of Kristiansen, on the other hand, says in Avisa Nordland today that the positions of the Inspector General of the Air Force and the Air Force's top management now moving to Bodø are cardboard figures. So -- people who go to work every day in service for their country are cardboard figures. It's really an eye-catching comment – again from a Nordic representative who doesn't want these jobs to Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e422	Interestingly, to the extent that the opposition does not agree with the government, there are questions about election fighting, but when the government does not agree with the head of defence, there is certainly something quite different we are talking about. Then there are certainly completely different and better defence policy and security assessments by the government and the Workers' Party than what the head of defence has done. It is not quite easy to understand the logic of such reasoning as the representative of Myrli presented. What I want to ask is, when the government parties and the government have made quite major changes to the chief of defence's recommendation, do you understand, the government and the parties behind this, that there is concern about how this is to be financed on the basis of the lack of analysis that the government itself is giving on this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e429	There is no lack of analysis as to the basis for the decision. It has been done according to the very best ways of calculating and calculating this, as is done in the public sector. So I just have to say that we have to distinguish what is unnecessary structure, and what is defense ability. For example, we wanted to increase the size of Homeland Protection compared to what the head of defense proposed, because it gives us operational capability, it gives us more defence. What is the problem with what the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party in today's position are in favour of is that you want to maintain bases in the Air Force to maintain bases. There is no more operational capability if the Air Force Inspector-General is on the Back or on the Retan. We need to distinguish between structure and operational capacity, and unfortunately, the Christian People's Party has now settled in a company where a priority is structure and local policy considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e439	This I hope will be a good, clear and exciting debate, for it has earned the Defense. I look at my great pleasure that there are considerably more people present today than when we had a debate about Afghanistan, which is perhaps the most important mission the defense does out – and I think that is a good sign. Let me start with some of what the representative Myrli was in the middle of his post, that is to give a tribute to all those who have their daily work in Defence, who do a job based on the given premises that are described and described from here, both economically and operationally. I think it's our duty as a National Assembly to make sure that the reward is given to those who do the job out. Because we can, with all possible respect, stand here and from this pulpit tell how good we are, how good conditions we set, but at the end of the day the quality of what we get is, depending on the quality of the people who do the job out, whether it's a nurse in Meymaneh or somewhere else, or whether it's a pilot in the 330s quadron operating out of Orland, Bodø or Sola. The whole point is that we depend on the quality of those that are there. That is why I believe it is a matter of course, on the part of the Progress Party at least, to start this debate by giving credit to all of them. There are people who, through this, actually lose the most precious thing you have — their lives. There are families in this country who are left with an empty space to live with for the rest of their lifetime because one of their closest relatives is torn away as a representative and is practicing for the Norwegian state. I think it has to do with dignity towards them to say that without them this would have been a debate without substance. Let me also thank the chairman of the committee for doing an excellent job of resolving the committee through both this case and the case of the Pansra Runkey, which has become a concept in the committee – with all possible respect. I also want to give a tribute to the minority in the committee, which, however, represents the majority here, because I have experienced the attempt to find a defence policy settlement that is positive. Just the willingness to try, I think, symbolizes that defence policy should initially not be about the great amusing things, which the representative Myrli draws on in his speech. But all right, he's got to do it. I think defense should be the most important thing. At the same time, this is the optimal room for discussing disagreements about what you define as the most important. If it wasn't like that, we would only be given a script that everyone had to put behind. But luckily, it's not like that. We live in a country that has a well-functioning, good democracy in which we also travel and want others to take a copy. Then I reserve the right to disagree with the Council of State and to disagree with the Secretary of State – I think it is a pleasure that he is present, I wish he sat even a little closer, and we could have discussed several things. It's going to be another time, maybe. It's all about our possibilities and what we're doing out of it. So I think another thing that's important is, why do we have a defense? Yes, due to national security, inter alia: We're part of NATO. NATO is a heavy premise supplier for what we're doing. I am very pleased that at least it is not a discussion about moving the focus, that the United States is a heavy and important premiscuous provider further – NATO is of course – and the UN track is the government concerned. When we talk about Syria, when we talk about other challenges we have, Afghanistan for that matter, and international missions, it's like the Storing essentially joins in those things. In other words, we have a focus on finding solutions where we stand together when we're going to do difficult things outside. So it's probably a fact that sometimes we're a little bit careful about discussing the difficult things. We've been discussing the northern regions recently. From the Progress Party, at least one thing is important to mention: we have a big neighbor in the East, and the big neighbor has seen that we have boasted that we have five frigates, and that we have bought new fighter planes. I'm not sure this is necessarily very deterrent to the Russian North Fleet or anyone else. I think they have enough tools in their toolbox to scare the lives of us – I would have said – more than once. The point is to show that we're not taking it easy. We're not naive about Russia. We're clear on what we want of defense, and why we need it. I want to go a little bit further to the economy, which I think is a challenge. I record that the government parties say that the economy is perfect. It is likely that hereafter there will be no critical comments from former Minister of Defence Jørgen Kosmo, who is now the National Auditor. This must be a perfect product – once we have listened to the representative Myrli. It's probably going to confirm the state council's statement. So, Jørgen Kosmo, relax – to the extent that you listen to this debate! Let me refer you to cards to a recording by the Joint Organisation of the Order, as at the hearing in connection with the proposition, among other things. said: ‘The proposed position is largely lacking in financial evidence with plans for each year and how the different measures are to be implemented roughly and what the figures are for each year. All history shows that with flat frameworks and budget deficits, defence must be reduced beyond what is planned. The proposition does not convince us that this will not happen again.» Otherwise you will see a number of statements and calculations from, among other things. FFI, where it is stated: ‘A budget that is actually flat-ended at the 2012 level will in practice mean a budgetary development that reduces purchasing power at a high pace.’» It can hardly be said more clearly. Then I am aware that this is about politics, it's about rhetoric, and it's about – let's call it – the power of definition. The government parties are clear that we have found the solution, we have financed everything, there are no problems. That must mean that now we get the number of sailing days that is necessary – optimally, it might be to go a little far. Now the Home Guard expects them to constantly practice all their crews. Object plans are expected to be up-to-date and ready to use. If this government and the majority in this Chamber do not live in an illusion, and we cannot afford it, because it is too scary. Another element that I want to touch, as far as I'm concerned, is integrated strategic management. Last year I had the pleasure of going to the Defence College and taking the main course. One thing I learned was that there was a big difference between driving strategic thinking and operating something. My experience is particularly that everyone is operational, and that everyone is a strategist. How smart it is, I'm supposed to lie down. But when I read the supplement to the proposition from the head of defense, it seems to me at least that what he said in his professional-military council, which the government has followed well, but nevertheless has set aside, was, in my opinion, elegantly expounded by the head of defense. It's possible that there's a consequence of the ISL. Of course, each one of us can do it on its own and think about how you want to look at it. There's a lot of interesting things here. I record that the representative Myrli is concerned with operational capability, and he was involved with it with base structure. Yes, I've had the pleasure of reading GIL's input to the Chief of Defense's professional-military advice, where he says that a two-base solution is strength-producing the best. Of course, it's possible that GIL has turned around after the proposition has been made. I don't know what kind of alternative he has. If he still stands on what he said at the time, he may have to find a new job. He obviously didn't, because now he thinks Evenes is sovereign – okay. So I can't stand here today without talking a little bit about Afghanistan. I was in the middle of it. It is a challenge for us when the contraction begins — it is point 1 that when Norway is going to withdraw its forces, it must be done in an optimal way, because an extraction is perhaps as scary as going in. I also think that in the extension of that, we need to have a necessary focus and a guarantee that our veterans are well maintained. It's done an excellent job. We've done a lot, but it can get better. It will be referred to by several from the Progress Party later today. Then there's talk of investing in the army, at sea, in the Home Office, and not least in air. All these things make sense. I am happy to see – at least as I can remember for a long time – that someone has gone against the large investment proposals proposed. However, there is a concern here as to whether we get the desired defence-related operational ability outwards – what the representative Myrli asked for. In that case, investment alone does not help; one has to have personnel. The staff is the key here. So we have five frigates. We have access to sailing three of these at the same time, as I understand it – if I'm kind. In addition, it is probably also a fact that you take parts from them internally and move on to have them sailable. It's possible it's good enough for the government. At the same time, some of us think that it's actually a concern, overall. Then to other investments. I registered that the Council of State on Monday evening was out with 91 police helicopters – which at least I personally think is a scandal. Norway signed a contract – if I do not remember faults – in 2001, with the start of deliveries in 2005. If I'm not completely wrong, we got the first one last year. But that's not the version we're going to have; it's going to be sent back and changed. I understand that the defense says that they will be fully operational in 2017. So it's going to be 16 years after you signed the contract. It will be 12 years after you started delivery. If these things don't affect our defense, our operational ability, I'm surprised. If it doesn't, do we have to buy these? I hope that the Minister of Defense is as tough as he suggests that he will be, in his post, to put the supplier even more to the wall than he has now done. I think you've gotten away too easily. Let me go into what I see is the backbone of the message we are discussing today, namely the acquisition of new fighter planes. For the part of the Progress Party, the purchase is fixed. We want to go for 52 planes, as the head of defense has said, and which is the government's ambition, even though they've put in a little rest cutting -- a possible rest cutting, to clarify it. Let me refer to a significant and important actor at this time and when the treatment has taken place, the present State Secretary Roger Ingebreichsen. He said just before Christmas last year that Norway does not tolerate any more hunting airstrips. He says, ‘The timetable we now have is getting critical. Now, if we start pushing beyond that, we're at risk of the country standing naked in terms of combat aircraft capacity." It is a concern that the Progress Party fully shares. When it comes to economics and other things, he says that we're not able to squander the lemon even more. If he with the "sitron" means F-35, it's probably a slightly interesting comparison of fruits that other people would ask questions about. But okay enough. The challenge will be: can we be sure that we get the plane at the time we expect to get it? Can we be sure that it will have the necessary capacities that we require, cf. The 91s left? And can we be sure that the price will be within the framework we have set. Yes, the Storting assumes it. The size presupposes one thing that has been criticised by the Council of State for before, namely to be kept constantly informed of developments, precisely because the new hunter aircraft purchase is the most significant and the largest investment Norway may have ever made, and the aircraft will last in a 40-year perspective, probably. Let me also say two words about the F-16 planes, which have done a formidable job for us. Greier F-35, when they come, to do something similar, it's been a good investment. But we in the Progress Party have a healthy scepticism, in line with the individual politicians in the United States, and in line with what a lot of professional journals working against aviation and the arms industry have. Now I'm going to admit something – which I rarely do, some say – but now I hope I'm wrong. As for my concern for F-35, I hope I'm wrong. I hope that they fall into 2015, I hope that they are the sovereigns in terms of capacity and abilities, and I hope that the price will be below the minimum estimate that the government has put in. If they do, I'll be the first to go here and brag again once more by the government. Then it might be that the representative Myrli would say that Ellingen was not as heavily educated this time as his predecessors must have been. But there has to be another debate that we have to come back to when that time comes. But as I said, we have a concern about what is happening. Then I cannot participate in this debate with post number 8250 without saying two words about the base structure, not because it is located there. In many ways I would have liked this debate better if it were the opposite, and I could fight for Ørland. For the Progress Party, the issue would be exactly the same if it had been Ørland who was about to be liquidated by the majority, because for our part, of course, we want to continue the two-base solution that exists now. We have an experience that the interaction between Ørland and Bodø is good, we perceive that they deliver professionally and operationally very well, not least any action in Libya has shown. Then we're worried because I perceive that the government is clear that when we make the changes we make, the staff will join in. My feedback is not that it is automatic. I heard that the representative Myrli referred to a meeting at the flight station in Bodø, where – as I understood him – not all the feedback received by Myrli was equally positive. But if you want to make changes, I assume – in line with what the representative Myrli said – that you are doing well to maintain the operational. This is where you're supposed to bring people, either to Evenes or Ørland? Yes, of course, it is possible that the e-mails I receive are from individuals with special interests, but I perceive that they are very concerned about what is happening. My conclusion about what we've been discussing now, and what we're going to discuss, is that I'm worried about the economy. I'm afraid what we're doing today is showing illusions in reality and in wishful thinking. In that case, it will not be signed who will have to stand here next time and tell you that the Progress Party was wrong again. Then it will be the representative of Myrli and others who have to say that the Riksrevision has a clear view of shortcomings. We believe, of course, that this is wrong, because we know best. Then the defense employees become a tool for a policy that I don't have any particular sense of, because they become caste balls and pieces in a game where it's really about not becoming a political blackhead, but to appear as a force for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e509	There have been many interesting debates in the media in recent days. I think perhaps the debates in which Mr Ellingsen has been involved have been particularly interesting. The reason is that in NRK 11 June he flagged that the Progress Party will have a rematch on the fighter base case if they go to government next year. He says, "We're going to continue today's solution." What was a little interesting then was that on the same day, even at the NRK, the Vice-Chairman Sandberg of the Advance Party pushed out and said, «The play from Jan Arild Ellingsen must be seen as a local election campaign play». He goes on to say that he “is happy that we have no influence on this matter”. Then I must be allowed to ask the representative Ellingsen the following question: Was this a local election campaign game? Is it going to be a rematch if the Progress Party gets into government, or isn't it? Who do we believe in? Is it Vice President Per Sandberg, or is it Jan Arild Ellingsen? Who do we hear and believe in?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e516	To answer in a simple way, you have to listen to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e521	That was an exemplified response from the spokesperson Ellingen. But I feel we have to drill a little bit more in this, because when the Vice President of the largest opposition party on Stortinget says: ‘Anyone should try to profile locally, but this is unacceptable. A bad decision has been made in FrP, and I have allowed myself to say that I am happy that we have no influence in this matter." I rarely agree with Per Sandberg that I am also happy that the Progress Party has no influence on this matter. But now once the Progress Party has been thinking in government with the Right. The right does not respond clearly, and at least the Party of Advancement does not respond clearly. There is considerable uncertainty for employees, both at Bodø and at Ørland, who could expect a slightly clearer response than two completely different responses from the Vice-President and spokesperson respectively. So I try the same question as Eva Kristin Hansen and hope for something more deepening.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e533	It's pretty simple. What was the representative from SV who did not get in my previous answer? I was very clear on who represents the party's position. If the representative did not get it, he did not come at all. It is such that SV – that SV pulls this up, I think it is good – had representatives from the big group standing outside this house, on the ground down here, who demonstrated against their own government. We have a lot to learn from SV like that. Of course, we also have individual members who have different visions than the group, but I have then explained to them that we want to continue the two-base solution. If Mr. The choice has problems, he can probably read it from the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e540	In a comment in the statement, the Right and the Advance Party consider that, in their view, key factors relating to the imbalance between tasks, structure and financial resources are neither addressed nor remedied in the government’s proposal for a new long-term plan. I listened to Ellingen's posts and tried to find out what his party's solution is. I was unable to capture it and ask why: How does the representative Ellingsen think that his party, through his proposals, contributes to the resolution of this imbalance he describes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e545	Let me simply reply: I recommend the representative of the Central Party to read the alternative state budget of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e550	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e553	Every day, thousands of people do a very crucial job for our everyone's safety through their work in Defense. Defence must always be proportionate to the real security challenges we face. The starting point for defence should be our national security tasks, and SV believes that we should make good use of the opportunities for close cooperation here in the north. A commitment that focuses more on our neighbourhoods is in line with this thinking. The capacity to defend Norway and manage the Norwegian sea areas must be at the heart of the defence priorities. The government has received broad support for increased investment in the north, and it has long been an important part of SV’s defence and security policy. Climate change and changes in international power create new challenges and increase the strategic and economic importance of the northern regions. It calls for innovation in Norway’s international cooperation and security policy; it requires a strengthening of the links with countries with which we have strong interest. Nordic cooperation will, for example: provide significant gains both in terms of security policy, capacity and economics. It is essential for Norwegian interests that small countries are ensured by a well-functioning international conflict management law. Therefore, supporting the capacity and authority of the United Nations in conflict situations is an important part of Norwegian security policy. As a small country, Norway has an interest in supporting the ban on war by international law and maintaining restrictive rules on the use of force. Norway must therefore always require a clear and concrete mandate from the United Nations if we are to participate in international operations. Today it is government policy. It hasn't always been. Therefore, SV is particularly pleased that we are making it so clear today. Defence of our neighbourhoods as well as prioritising participation in UN-led operations are important ambitions in the new long-term plan. It is very gratifying that there is now a broad consensus on this approach to Norwegian defence policy. The most important task of defence is to form a war-preventing threshold that involves high risk and cost to the one who had to challenge our security and independence. Such a threshold implies that Norway has relevant means of power that can counteract pressure, aggression or attack. Defence will continue to facilitate the support of civil society in the event of accidents and natural disasters, serious crime and other crises. It is a priority we strengthen with this plan. The investment in fighter aircraft is Norway's most expensive mainland investment ever. SV believes that Norway needs fighter aircraft as part of the Norwegian defence system, and it is essential that a clear cost framework is set for the entire purchase and that the purchase is carried out in a way that ensures Storting’s control of the development of the F-35 programme and the price of the aircraft. It's not about any mistrust of the government, it's about having as much investment as this involves, we should have control all the way. That's why we're happy that the flight purchase is going to be dealt with annually in Stortinget, so that we elected people at any time have a hand on the steering wheel of the process. Nor do I feel that the government has any problem with it, as the government itself has proposed this approach to the flight purchase. The Swedish National Board of Directors has previously decided that when Norwegian fighter aircraft are considered out of date, it will be necessary to renew their capacity. Price was a very important factor in SV agreeing to negotiate with Lockheed Martin about the purchase of F-35. Calculations show that real costs do not differ from those presented to the Stortinget in 2009. It is essential for SV, so that fighter aircraft do not go at the expense of investment in welfare, health, care and school. Kampfly will be a central and important part of the Norwegian defence, and the costs of fighter aircraft must be seen in the context of the Defence's other budget. F-35 has a number of capacities that today's F-16 obviously don't have. There will be a new, high-tech platform for the entire Defense. In addition to being a next-generation fighter aircraft, the ability of the aircraft to obtain real-time and transmit intelligence and surveillance information will provide the Defense with new capabilities. This will provide a much better basis for both the pilots and the defence’s other network-integrated capabilities to make the right decisions in increasingly complex operations. Therefore, it is also natural that investment in fighter aircraft is part of the Defence's ordinary budget. The additional funding provided in the long-term plan is significantly lower than that outlined in the professional-military council. But we are sure that the defense can find good arrangements to cover the investment costs, even if we see that it will be demanding. The number of aeroplanes is important for the total cost and the long term plan provides for a reduction of the number of 42 aeroplanes plus the training aeroplanes. Many modern weapon systems can theoretically be equipped with nuclear weapons. It can fly, artillery, missiles, etc. I mention this because there has been a debate on the defence's long-term plan that F-35 could be equipped with nuclear weapons. But in order to deliver such weapons, the weapons must be integrated into the aircraft. This software will not be of interest to us, nor will it be available to Norwegian pilots. It should be completely unnecessary to point out that the nuclear weapon in Norwegian aircraft is an entirely, totally un topical issue, and there is complete agreement in the Storting. Norway has clear and clear targets for a nuclear-free world and is actively working towards this goal. The aeroplanes shall have a base, and the government has landed on Ørland as a choice of main fighter base. I believe that is a wise and correct choice, which was confirmed by the Committee's last visit to the base. I know Ørland well: there is little civil air traffic, there is little population density around the military base, and the possibilities for further development in a long-term perspective in the area are good. Besides, it's very nice there! Since Ørland is also the most reasonable option, it was right for the government to go along with this particular solution. Even so, it is the right place to locate a forward-looking operating base, based on both noise considerations, freedom of action, reach and price. It is worth noting that the Right does not join this whole solution, but the more interesting it is to follow the Progress Party in this case, which announces a rematch in the next period if the Stortinge's composition should change. I could think of feedback from the Right on how they will deal with this demand from the Progress Party, which creates great uncertainty. After all, we just got a very clear confirmation from the spokesperson, Jan Arild Ellingsen. For me and SV, it is important to promote a clear recognition of the veterans of Defence. The implementation of the Action Plan in service to Norway, presented last May, is well on track. For us, the protection of compensation for staff serving abroad is very important. The people who are willing to put themselves at risk for Norway should obviously have very good arrangements, and I am very pleased that the Ministry of Defence is following this well. All in all, the defence's long-term plan is a plan we're very pleased with. Norway needs a comprehensive and cross-sectoral defence and security policy, including an enhanced conflict prevention policy, to increase the robustness of key societal functions and to reduce the vulnerability of Norwegian society. The development of a comprehensive policy for increased security and security must be based on what needs to be defended and not on short-term threat assessments. Hopefully, that time is past when concepts such as the «UN-led world order» were debated in Norwegian politics, even though not very long ago. On the contrary, Norway is like a small country with large natural resources and an important location entirely dependent on a world society where the rules are followed and respected. With our geographical location and our large natural resources, we therefore believe that the following main tasks must form the basis of Norwegian defence and security policy: to prevent wars in our part of the world from actively contributing to building a fair international legal order to contribute to the disarmament and elimination of weapons of mass destruction to ensure democracy and the freedom of action of elected political authorities to secure fishing resources in the sea areas around Norway to ensure the production of our Norwegian pedestal oil and gas resources to ensure the economic and ecological stability of our neighbourhoods to ensure the Norwegian coast as safe transport years to ensure the infrastructure of society; I believe that the government's proposals for a plan, which we are discussing and adopting today, respect these priorities. Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good management and for his good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e624	With the purchase of F-35 fighter aircraft, close ties are confirmed to the United States, and Norway is once again entering into a heavy and long-term partnership with the US defence industry. Both parts are elements that have historically led to nervous wheezing in SV and have given inspiration to strong slogans. In today's debate, will SV take the opportunity to communicate to its own voters that the purchase of American fighter aircraft was a matter that they lost in government cooperation, or is SV now so pragmatic and little concerned with previous attitudes that this flight purchase comes into the account for good results of having SV in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e629	I thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for the question. First of all, I would like to say that what I want to communicate to SV's voters is what I just kept a 10-minute post about. Furthermore, I am about as much a NATO trailer as Jonas Gahr Støre is an EU opponent. Nevertheless, we are able to cooperate well with the government. The opposition parties have often tried to create the impression that SV is against having a fighter flight capacity at all. It is wrong, and it has been fixed by SV's national government for a long time. It is therefore old news when Morten Høglund tries to trouble purchase fighter aircraft in itself for SV. With regard to the choice of F-35, it has just been very important for SV that we should buy so expensive and so advanced fighter aircraft, we should have full control of the process, at the price and on the progress of the project. I'm glad the government has taken care of it. I notice, for example. that the opposition partner of the Progress Party, namely the Right, considers that there is uncertainty about the project. On the contrary, I believe that this is a sign of good governance, and that is SV proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e637	The right does not want any uncertainty about this project. Let me start by congratulating SV on today's adoption of Norway's largest investment in mainland Norway over the years, through new fighter planes. But when SV gets to where they are really the most extended, in the opposition in the autumn of 2013, can you be sure that SV is at all behind the adopted fighter aircraft program? I think this program now in an hour's time has been reduced to it very uncertain. The representative Myrli made it clear that you are going to invest in ‘up to’ 52 fighter aircraft. Have we now come down on 42 planes in an hour? Is that the signal? Or will SV issue a guarantee with a limited shelf life?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e642	The level of business of the representative Kristiansen can be worth it to many here in the hall and also to those in the gallery to notice. To claim that SV extends after opposition – it is only to note that SV has now consistently been in government longer than the Right has ever been able to do, and that SV’s political series have far more governance experience than the Right does. This is reflected in the way in which the Right has communicated in large parts of the treatment of this action plan, including: the memory of where the Right would actually have placed the main fighter aircraft base, for which we have witnessed the last few weeks, and which has created great uncertainty for many of those sitting in the gallery, and for which this is an important decision. Then I can answer Kristiansen's questions and the question I got from the representative Eriksen Soreide earlier at the same time. It is whether there is a mistrust on the part of SV towards the government that we are pleased that we are going to have a great deal of downgrade control on the fighter aircraft purchase. To that it is just to answer that parliamentaryism does not mean distrust. Of course, we are in favour of the decision that is being made today, but we make clear premises to spend as much as we are going to use today, it should just be lacking, and it feels strange that SV has to teach the money party Right about tight financial management. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e649	I think the representative has quite good opinions in his posts, and when you think of SV's origin as a party that was founded to a large extent on the basis of disagreement with the Workers' Party in defence, foreign and security policy, I want to ask, with the broad experience that the representative himself now referred to that SV has from the government, whether SV's view of NATO has changed during the period of government. For example: IS it true that NATO also has a role as a peacekeeping alliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e654	Peacekeeping globally is the responsibility of the United Nations and, fortunately, it is a total mass that agrees. With government SV, the focus is now more withdrawn from the defence of our neighbourhoods and the lifting of sovereignty of Norway, as the Minister of Defence has also explained. It's SV very pleased with. The Christian People's Party, which with Prime Minister has introduced Norway into three different wars around the world, has some experience with those issues. As far as our view of NATO is concerned, it is quite clear from the party's program, and it has not changed as long as we have been in government, but we are of course very pleased to have the opportunity to lay clear leadership both for fighter aircraft purchases and for the focus on defending our neighbourhoods, which might not have been as clear if SV had not been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e666	In Norwegian security and defence policy, there is usually consensus on the basic framework. We in the Center Party are pleased that this consensus is being continued in this long-term plan as well. In the committee we agree on a lot and disagree on a part, but we have had good cooperation in the committee, and I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur for a good work. It's been a long and thorough job on this plan, and we've made great and important choices, which all the parties are behind: We will go to the purchase of new fighter aircraft. We are continuing the course for the Maritime Defense Department. We're going to continue to rust the Army to meet a new security picture. We have chosen to maintain a solid protection system throughout the country. For us in the Central Party, it is absolutely essential that we have a defence that matches resources and tasks. We believe that we have it today, and that we are going to have it further in the future with the long-term plan that we are now presenting. I, and more with me in this room, belong to the generation that was young during the cold war. The Iron Curtain was a concept, and that was the time we had an invasion defense, whose main function was to defend their own and allied territory against a clearly defined threat. The development of defence has gone enormously fast, and today's defenses are quite different. Development continues, and capacities that were useful yesterday may be obsolete or redundant tomorrow. This means that, as politicians, we must constantly focus on the capacities that we need the most and that best keep our defence structure up to date. The major steps taken in the defence’s long-term plan are primarily about changes in air defence. This is naturally related to the purchase of new fighter aircraft, which will be a huge economic boost for the nation. This has been the subject of a thorough debate in Stortinget in the past. The centre party is prepared to increase the defence framework in order to compensate for the costs incurred by the fighter flight purchase. However, I would like to stress that the defence itself, not least the Air Force, must be prepared to cover a large part of the costs within its budgets. Government Parties have chosen to take some structural measures that are difficult, but necessary, in order for the air defence to be able to recover a large part of the costs within their limits. The purchase of new fighter aircraft opens up in order to organize differently, not by increasing the reach, but because one has to do something with the base structure. After long and thorough consideration, and not without discussions in our group, the Center Party has entered into one main fighter base. We have then agreed that this base should be added to Ørland, which is considered to be the best option professionally. In order to secure Norwegian airspace, it is important that we get what is called a forward-looking operating base with QRA, Quick Reaction Alert, in the north, and this we want to add evens. Adoption of the phase-out of the combat aircraft base in Bodø after 60 years has not been a decision that we have taken lightly. Especially in relation to all the employees in Bodø, this is a heavy decision. In this context, it is important, first and foremost for individual reasons, but also in the interests of a strong need for competence for air defence, to take care of personnel at this difficult stage. This also applies to Rygge and Mågerø, which are other places where military activity is phased out. There is a great deal of uncertainty about such changes as we face, and it is important that the changes take place in as gentle a way as possible, and that a person takes the time to implement the changes. As the Defence is withdrawn from Bodø, it is important that the areas released can be used quickly for civil purposes and that that transition also takes place as smoothly as possible. It is also important for us to strengthen the environment in Reitan by moving there, with staff, the Inspector-General of the Air Force. It has also not been easy for us to go in for the closure of Rygge and Mågerø, but it has been a condition that the environments in Reitan and Sørreisa should be strengthened. Decisions on closures and relocations are always very difficult. The presence of defence around the country has not only been important for defence purposes, but in many places in the country it has also had a major regional policy significance. As a center party, I have a special commitment to community, and it is therefore not with an easy heart that we have had to accept that closures have been necessary. This has been a demanding choice, which has been and continues to be painful for communities. But we think they've been necessary to make the base structure even better adapted to the modern response defense. It is a little paradoxical that the whole committee is united behind the view that Norway needs a constantly up-to-date defence. But it doesn't just keep saying it – action must also be followed up. Here the government parties have dared to make demanding choices and have made some grips, as some places are, mildly, unpopular. It's not the opposition's willing to – while in many other contexts it's asking for action from the government. The grips that government parties are now taking will help the defense to deal with the huge acquisition of combat aircraft financially. The opposition parties go in to buy as many fighter aircraft as the government, but what is strange is that they do not take into account the sustained increase in operating costs that this purchase entails. That's why I don't get the opposition's calculation to go up, when they're not willing to take the structural grips that cut costs in the defense. Government parties want to give priority to defence rather than infrastructure maintenance. Now that we have made such decisions, we are left with a defence where consistency between means and tasks is good. As a representative of the Hedmark Armed Forces, I am naturally very concerned with the Army, and for the Central Party, the volume of the defense is important. We were therefore critical of the proposal to put down the 2nd Battalion and are pleased that this did not become a reality. The Chief of Defence's advice led to a sharp turn away from the defence-based defence. We were sceptical about that in the Center Party. We believe it is important to continue the duty of protection as base pillars in the defense, and are therefore satisfied that the government undertakes to continue the number of guardians approximately at the present level. We believe that this is important both for political and professional reasons. It also contributes to the consolidation of defence in the population. Our modern response defense is simply dependent on a solid protection system in order to function optimally. We are pleased that there is broad political support for maintaining the duty of protection as a pillar of defence, but we are concerned that the protection obligation system is also adapted to modern defence, and that the number of guardians admitted to initial service must be adapted to the needs of the defence. The land defence model set out in this long-term plan ensures both broad protection-based recruitment and gripability, while also ensuring the recruitment of HV. I believe that this is a solution that is well adapted to the modern Norwegian defence system. The centre party is particularly concerned with Homeland Protection, and for us, the most important priority has always been to secure a defense with a presence throughout the country, which has the means to train and practice. It was therefore very important for us to maintain the number of HV districts and a HV-force of 45000. We don't want to reduce either the number of soldiers or districts, as the head of defense suggested. We have that clearly, along with the other government parties, and we are very pleased with it. We are also pleased to note that there has not been any eagerness in the other political parties to cut drastically in the forces of Homeland Protection. Home security is today the only part of the defense that has a presence throughout the country, and it's also that part of the defense that most of the inhabitants get a relationship with during their lives. The significance of HV, both practical in crisis situations and symbolic in everyday life, must not be underestimated. What happened on July 22nd last year shows how important it is that we have an active HV that is present throughout the country. The number of enquiries we received from concerned people all over the country, but especially in the regions where HV districts were proposed, testify to a large and popular commitment around HV. Today, we are adopting a new long-term plan where very important choices have been made for the future of defence. It ensures protection-based defence with a presence throughout the country and makes very important choices for the future of air defence. The Government Parties hereby provide a responsible plan for the defence of the future, in which the balance between financial resources, structure and the tasks assigned to it is ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e734	The representative Schlagsvold Vedum said in winter that it was very important to move the helicopter base from Rygge to Rena. This is not proposed in the notification, it is not proposed in the comments, nor is it mentioned in the post of the representative, Grøtting. So now I wonder if it's such that now in June the Center Party doesn't think this is very important anymore, or didn't the Center Party get a pass on to the government for this point either?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e739	It is probably right that both the representative of the Battle of Vedum and the undersigned, who comes from Hedmark, can in the long run imagine moving the helicopter base to Rena. It's not something we've prioritised very high to get through for now, but we want it in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e744	I have a great deal of understanding that an alternate does not have the full overview of the case picture, so I intend to take a question in principle. In Bodø, Air Force has a 60-year history of combat aircraft operations. 60 years of good and bad lies in the ground in Bodø and the runway there. Does the Central Party think it is right for the Bodø people to withdraw, disappear and then want to make money on it, all the time that the Bodø people have been hosting – and an excellent host – for the Air Force? At the same time, the defense sells the reason as ‘as ice’. In other words, you don't do anything in the world to take away the harmful aspects of 60 years of history.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e752	Firstly, we find it very difficult to adopt the abolition of Bodø. That's what I said in my post, and we've said that many times. Therefore, it has been important for us to strengthen Retan and elsewhere in the north in this long-term plan. To the question of selling the reason ‘as ice’, the Minister of Defense has answered this earlier here: it is not the case that the defence is withdrawing and leaving civil society to clean up. It's going to be cleaned up and sorted out before this area is taken over by civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e759	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e762	It is interesting for someone who is not in the Committee to follow this debate and to read the position and the many questions and answers given on the occasion of the case. And for someone sitting on the finance committee, it's been very interesting to look at both questions and answers in this case. Several people in this Chamber are present in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, including those who have signed it. From that perspective, we can say that we are dealing with a long-term plan under completely different assumptions than the vast majority of other NATO countries. It is quite significant — I might say a little alarming — to see how countries by country are reducing heavily in their defence budgets. Here we're not talking about that it's just for structural reasons, here it's also for purely economic reasons. In the balance between Europe and the United States – I’m aware that I’m going a little beyond what may be at the heart of the matter now – I think there’s a perspective that gives cause for reflection. Also, what happened afterwards, and what we've seen after the Libyan operations, gives reason to see how many of the NATO countries are really being defended. It has been interesting to talk to parliamentarians from other NATO countries about how many of the Member States in this alliance have experienced the situation and the major challenges, including at parliamentary level. Then I also agree that we should try to emphasize that there is a lot of consensus in this setting. It's like there's going to be disagreement and debate about what there's no consensus about – that's quite natural. But let me say from the Christian People's Party that we are pleased with the great consensus that the setting represents. When the defense is one of our core tasks, it's extra important. This is about protecting the country, it is about protecting the freedom and security of its citizens. It may seem distant sometimes, but when it comes to it, this is – and ensuring peace – a core task for us. The primary tasks are related to the defence of our own country. But we must also – and we have shown that – contribute to peace operations internationally. The starting point of the Christian People's Party will always be that Norway's anchoring must be in international law and in NATO. The defence capabilities of nations are not built up overnight. We still need to renew our defence capabilities in order to face changes in the threat picture. The threat of terror from non-governmental actors must be taken seriously, including the issue of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We've seen modern societies become increasingly dependent on electronic data and digital communications, which can be the starting point for attack. It gives new vulnerability. Therefore, cyber defence – the ability to protect us from attacks on the country’s digital infrastructure – will become increasingly important in the years to come. The world is changing. Changeability and long-termity are required – at the same time – in our own planning. Of course, in the planning period now ahead of us, the renewal of the Air Force, especially the forthcoming phase-in of new fighter aircraft, will be a central challenge. It will take a lot of money. It's the largest single investment ever. The price tag can be 60 and 70 billion. NOK – we don't know exactly. In any case, this is huge investment, and more than the normal budgetary framework of the defence provides for. We recognise these uncertainties, and we choose to base the principles that the Minister of Defense and the Government have made in terms of the timing of the decisions in the acquisition of combat aircraft. I think we should remind each other that this also has meaning for other things. Let us not forget that there are large investments accompanied by extensive industrial cooperation between the Norwegian and American industries. The Christian People's Party believes that this acquisition should be accompanied by temporary additional appropriations, in addition to a continuation of the current defence framework. Thus, the acquisition of the new fighter aircraft can be done without the other defence being harmed. I would like to stress that we support the government's proposals for a financial framework for the forthcoming planning period. There is now a cross-political agreement that the new fighter aircraft should be of type F-35, from Lockheed Martin. There is also agreement that the ambition is for Norway to buy 52 fighter aircraft, i.e. 48 fighter aircraft in addition to the already agreed acquisition of four training aeroplanes – and finally: a broad majority here supports the main base for the new fighter aircraft being Ørland flight station in Trondelag. All of this provides a very good basis for defence planning on – also for long-term planning – regardless of changing governments. With Stortinget's treatment of the new long-term plan, the defense is in our opinion given the necessary predictability. So there are some points where we disagree. I do not want to reduce these to be of a territorial nature, as some have tried in this debate. There are examples of how the government has found it necessary to go back on previous decisions, for example: the decision to move the recruitment training of the Air Force from Madla to Kjevik. So it may well be that there are more than district policy elements at the root of the opposition's disagreement on some points, although I understand that it is bad and difficult for the government parties to take it over. The issue of the transfer of bases and defence environments has major implications. We have to admit that, and that's the background to the number of questions it's been necessary to ask the government in this case, because, at least as far as we can, we can be involved in ensuring the quality of the decision-making basis. We think there are three points there is reason to ask questions about. The first is the location of the advanced QRA base for the fighter planes. We still believe that we need a better basis for decision-making before we can decide where this is going to be. But we believe that much might indicate that it is right to continue today's fighter aircraft activity from Bodø in terms of an advanced QRA base. We therefore ask the government honestly and openly to come back with a more detailed assessment of this. We also believe that the basis of the proposition is not sufficient to support the government's proposal for the closure of Rygge in Eastfold. Thirdly, we do not support the closure of Mågerø either. We believe that this is not a good enough operational justification for the proposal. Home security has also been a part of the debates that I guess have been central to the government parties. I would like to say to me that it was a thoughtmaker to read an article – I think it was yesterday or yesterday – in one of our newspapers from someone who has been on HV practice. It should really give cause for concern how the general HV soldier is now experiencing the operational capability of the Home Guard, to call it that. Those who are required to ensure that adequate contents are provided for the Home Guard soldiers should read that article with special interest. Towards the end – we have other posts where we're going to deal with some of the other issues that we're discussing here – I want to say that through several governments and through several decades we've had, and I want to say there's been a big problem, an imbalance between the structure of defence and the economy of defence. I want to give the government credit for trying to balance this, and I hope that through the setting that is finally adopted, we provide a basis for that. But I don't think we're going to be idyllizing this; I still think there'll be big challenges on this point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e800	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e803	As the representative Syversen said in his statement, and writes in the setting – together with the other opposition parties – they do not rely on the economy of the plan, and then they are afraid that the phase-in of the fighter aircraft will go too far beyond other material investments – even if we are going to grant 10 billion today. kr to these vehicles. So while the Christian People's Party is worried about the economy, they're going to increase investment by 3 billion. kr when they want Bodø as a forward base. They are opposed because they believe that this is not a good enough basis for the proposed efficiency measures. But, as the representative said in his statement: Christian People's Party supports the government's financial framework for the planning period. This cannot be entirely linked, at least not to one who sits on the financial committee. Is this why you look more closely at your own electoral campaign plan than at the defence's long-term plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e812	I guess it was a line in the style of previous lines from the government parties in this room in this case. I have looked at these figures presented by the government regarding the costs of possible operation from Bodø. That's why we've asked a lot of questions to figure out: what are gross numbers, and what are net numbers? What is civil society going to do with increased costs, if any, because there is also a civil airport in Bodø, and what is it natural for the defence to take care of? The sum of this makes us want to get a better decision base for that very thing. It is not as simple as the representative Hansen wants it to be, that this is done only because you have it as part of an electoral campaign plan. It's too cheap.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e821	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e824	I have to say as the representative of the Seven: it is exciting for someone who is not on the committee to be able to participate in this debate. The long-term plan is an important tool to ensure long-term and consensus on defence policy. 5 minutes is not much to promote the whole view of the Left, so I'll be careful to comment on a few selected themes. Norway is totally dependent on our security policy commitments in NATO, and we rely on a good defence to carry out the job we have been willing to take on in Afghanistan. We support the Committee's comments on this. The main problem and challenge of the long-term plan is that it says the defence should train more, new equipment should be purchased, it should be streamlined, but there is no real will for priority, which we believe is necessary. The left is the party that is closest to the defense chief's professional military council, which shows that we dare there other tens. We have already warned that if there is no money on the investment side, we should consider whether to cut the number of flights when that time comes. But we'll take that later. I share the defence manager's goal of finding more cost-effective solutions to renew and improve defence. This led, inter alia, to: the Defence Manager strongly recommended further concentration of environments and bases. The other opposition parties have pointed out that the government's re-priorities have not been sufficiently calculated. As Left reads the proposition, there will be few real conversion measures before 2016, and it is unclear how further operations provide room for increased operational activity, which has been the prerequisite for the long-term plan. In other words, the left is critical of realism in the financing plan based on the proposition. We're sorry about that. So a little bit about Homeland. In his professional counsel, the chief of defense recommended laying down several district staffs and districts. The left share the defence manager’s intention, namely to save operating costs that can be used to train the remaining forces. However, the left considers it reasonable to maintain the area structure, but believes it is time for a significant change in the structure and arrangements of the Home Protection System. The Left agrees with the majority of the Committee that such a conversion will require thorough analysis but, like the opposition parties, will signal support for such a conversion. The left wants to strengthen the operational capability of the Home Guard and therefore considers it reasonable to make a clearer distinction between the part of the HV that should be able to reject military attacks and the part that is more of a security and security service. Left wants to strengthen the military capabilities of Homeland Protection by doubling the number of intervention teams and by more training of the rest of the force. To finance this, we want to cut the number of soldiers, and we ask the government to come back with a proposal on how this can be financed within the framework of Homeland Protection. The Left does not support the Decommissioning of Rygge Air Station either. We also do not support the move of the Air Force Inspector-General with staffs. The costs of moving Air Force management are high, and we can't see that the benefits of relocation outweigh this. The Left therefore supports the continuation of the air defence management with the Inspector General of the Air Defence and Air Defence Staff, the Air Operation Inspectorate and the Air Defence Training Inspectors at Rygge. I would like to mention briefly that we share the comments of the opposition parties regarding the closure of the Air Force station on Mågerø. The left wants to maintain today's structure with control and warning stations on the South Travel and Mågerø because we believe that the government's solution is significantly more expensive than the Defence Manager's advice, without the benefit being sufficiently argued for. Finally, some words about combat aircraft base. The left, like the government, believes that the main base for the new fighter planes should be on Ørland. We also share the government's view that there should also be an advanced base, but the left does not want to bind to Even's as an advanced base now. The main reason for this is that we have not been given an estimate of what a solution to Evenes will cost, how much investment needs to be made, and how this will affect the financing plan. Nor do we believe that it is essential that the Storting should take this decision right now. The left has therefore put forward a proposal in the Chamber that, in addition to Ørland, an exposure be created in North Norway with a minimum solution of two plus one aeroplane. We want a military professional and economic assessment of the different base options – something we don't think was done to a sufficient degree when Evenes was elected. With this I address the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e856	The representative Borghild Tende has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e861	I think it was a good post that my cousin at Akershus-benken made. The left has a sensible approach to several important defence issues. But I have a question for the Tende about Left's proposal No. 8, which has been promoted in the hall today. What does that really mean? Five options have been evaluated for an advanced base in North Norway: Banak, Bardufoss, Andøya, Evenes and Bodø. The assessments were clear. Evens is the best, and Evenes is also clearly the cheapest solution. These figures are publicly available, and the Storing Authority has granted access to them. My question to the left is: are there more alternatives than the five to be investigated? What is actually the opinion of the Left with proposal No. Eight?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e870	First, I want to thank you for the rose. Then I would say that we support Ørland as the main base – we all agree on that. We don't think it's thoroughly worked out. We want a more military and economical assessment. In addition, we have been informed that this is not urgent. We want a better analysis of which base is best suited as a QRA. And once again, we see that it's not urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e876	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e879	The long-term defence plan links the past and the future. The generations before us have ensured that Norway has had a defence adapted to its time challenges. It has provided security for our country under changing security conditions. We're going to ensure a defense for our time and put the staf stick in the hand of the next generation. It requires responsibility, foresight and determination. The security policy image is broken. New powers are emerging, and while our own continent is hit by a deep and lasting economic and social crisis, there is a global shift of power, not least against Asia. In Norway’s neighbourhoods, global warming opens up to a gradual ice-free Arctic, with great opportunities for both cooperation and conflict of interest. The vulnerability of digital space is increasing, and cyberspace is increasingly appearing as a new independent dimension in our thinking about what defence is. With such complex challenges, a modern and adaptable defence is essential that can build a war-preventing threshold. Compared to most of our European partners, Norwegian defence is in a very privileged situation. We build up there other cutters down. But increased budgets do not exempt us from using Community funds in a good way. Norway is also in a special position in how we have been able to convert and streamline defence in a period of good budgets. Many of our European partners have pushed forward similar challenges and are now forced to cut short-term and very dramatic, driven by the financial crisis. I would like to thank Mr Syversen for how he contributed a real orientation on what the situation is, and the people you hear about in the NATO context. Norway, for its part, has taken similar decisions because they are wise and forward-looking, not because we were urgently forced to do so. The Defence Manager’s own annual report for 2011 provides a good illustration of how the actual level of activity of the Defence Agency is now increasing as the demanding but important transition to an intervention defence has been largely implemented. Over the past ten years, alternate governments have taken decisions that were controversial there and then, but have proved to be ahead of the future. The Armed Forces Operational Headquarters is located on Retan outside Bodø. We have assembled the Army with a centre of gravity in Inner Troms and one in Østerdalen, the Maritime Defense is gathered in Bergen, in Sortland and in Ramsund. There they are, and there they must be. It creates peace and predictability for defence workers and their families, and it allows for strong investment in these areas. It is very rare – as the representative Myrli reminded us – that people want to have back the facilities that were laid down, even though it was very controversial also in this room when it happened. Now it's the Air Force's turn. Air defence is facing an equally necessary process in order to prioritize its operational activities as the Maritime Defense and the Army did in the past – and has now completed. Let me remind you that during the treatment of the current long-term plan, i.e. St.prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, a unanimous Defence Committee stated that reform action was also necessary for the basic structure of the Air Force for the long-term and sound management of defence capabilities. I quote – from an overall committee in 2008: ‘The air defence continues to be influenced by an inheritance representing a cost-intensive diversification of activities. [[...]] If this is not changed, the costs of maintaining the bases will continue to draw resources at the expense of the operational capability of the defence. The Committee therefore shares the Government's view that in the future, air defence should continue the scope of its capabilities, but concentrated on fewer bases, on the basis that equal professional environments are co-located where it is rational.» These were wise words. Now we're there. We are the ones who are going to make these choices. In Norway, we have a long tradition of a broad political consensus on the main lines of defence policy. I am pleased to note, as the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did quite correctly, that there is also a consensus in this crossroads on the vast majority of points. The most important decision of this long-term plan concerns the acquisition of Norway’s new fighter aircraft of type F-35. This is an investment of no less than 60 billion. kr. The amount is almost identical to what we presented in 2008, and I am happy to note that. The unanimous nature of the Committee's position on this issue is very important for a small country. We don't buy fighter aircraft just for the sake of Air Force – we buy fighter aircraft for the entire Defense. Because without a credible ability to control our own airspace, investments in maritime and national forces give little meaning. In a highly-intensity conflict in and around Norway, our ability to control our own land and sea territories depends on our control in the air. In this area, it's simply not enough to be a good number two. The battle lights, however, do not operate in a vacuum. The government's proposal to establish an air operation centre on Retan outside Bodø has to be seen as a logical consequence of the fighter flight decision. The air operation centre — also known as the NAOC — will aim to plan and conduct complex air operations. Only in this way will we get the full effect of the aircraft acquisition. In the view of the government, this should replace one of the two control and warning stations we operate today. So this is in line with what the committee meant by the previous crossroads. The government's view is that tactical air control and alerts are collected on CRC South Travel, while CRC Mågerø is shut down and the NAOC is established on Retan at Bodø. It was also so that at the previous long-term plan, we temporarily placed the Air Force's top management in Rygge, until we knew what the fighter aircraft structure would be like. We know that now, and we believe that this should be added to Bodø and linked closely to the new Air Operation Centre and to the Defence Operational Headquarters. Then I am pleased that all parties, except the Advance Party, support the Government's proposal that there should be one main base for fighter aircraft in Norway – one, not two – and that it should be added to Ørland. It is very important for the Air Force and its employees that they receive this clarification. Ørland gives us a very good starting point for developing the fighting weapons of the future. I also note that there is agreement to establish a smaller, forward-looking operating base in North Norway, and that the disagreement is limited to where this is to be located. Of the five considered alternatives to forward base – Banak, Bardufoss, Andøya, Bodø and Evenes – the government has landed on Evenes. This solution is operationally good, while requiring the least initial investment, and is supported by the Defence Manager and the Air Force Inspector-General. To Borghild Tenden, who said she had not received an answer to the cost: it costs 56 million. SEK in investment and 76 million. kr to implement that solution. It says in one of the many answers we have had the pleasure of transmitting to Stortinget, in the extension that we also said the same thing in the long-term plan. We want to strengthen the army's response and flexibility. In Troms, the second Battalion of the Brigade shall be maintained and included as part of an Arctic effort force. The armored battalion shall be further developed as a heavy armoured battalion, in line with the Chief of Defense’s proposal, with a significantly higher proportion of personnel recruited in combination with any required personnel. Telemark battalion also gets an element of protectiveness. We thus maintain a fully-fledged brigade structure in Norway and at the same time ensure the continued relevance of the protection obligation. In a matter of its own today, the government is proposing to carry out the greatest material acquisition of the times to the Army. These are 146 new and upgraded armoured vehicles, supporting vehicles, tactical drones and related logistics. This is nothing less than the Army's F-35 project. It represents a strong uplift for our land power and costs $9.3 billion. kr. July 22nd and the extreme weather in the West reminded us that we can also experience serious crises in peacetime, which put society's overall preparedness to the test. Although the main task of defence is of a security policy nature, it is very important that all relevant resources of defence are available and trained for interaction with police and civil authorities. We are therefore further developing and strengthening Home Security with a local presence, which can make important contributions both in security crises and through assistance to civil society. I want to commend the head of defence for providing solid professional-military advice as a basis for the long-term plan. The government has followed many of the recommendations, but has also made some alternative choices. Where our conclusions have led to higher costs, the government has systematically taken this into account financially. The long-term plan foresees an increase of 634 million in the operational budget of the Defence Agency in Norway. kr per year, compared to the defence manager’s proposal, by reinvesting money that has been previously committed to the mission in Afghanistan and which was actually going back to the Ministry of Finance. This will now be a lasting strengthening of the budget. I notice that the opposition has not made clear proposals for alternative solutions, but wants more investigations. The government’s recommendations are based on very thorough assessments and extensive use of external quality assurance. We've delivered the long-term plan. We provide Stortinget with a comprehensive supporting material, and as mentioned, we have answered a total of 291 questions from Stortinget – partly about what was mentioned in the long-term plan. I think there is hardly one relevant question that has not been asked and answered. It's a time for everything. Several investigations do not lead us further. What is now required is the willingness to draw the necessary conclusions. Policy is essentially about making choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e941	It's going to be line change, limited to up to six lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e944	I have recorded that the Council of State has been concerned about the opposition parties' focus on solution in Bodø, and he has stated that it is more important with bullets and powder than with asphalt. Of course, he's allowed to believe that, but if this is a principle approach, which I'm assuming is, I have a challenge for the Council of State. It's a fact that the government didn't very long ago open Halden prison. So you've invested in art between 5 and 10 million. kr to decorate the prisoners. Why don't you use these funds to increase cell capacity? In addition, in the transport sector, drivers are allowed, through tolls, to pay for decoration along the road. Why don't you spend that money on more asphalt? If it is that the stasis thread is concerned with this in principle, why does the government not implement that principle consistently – or is it just in this case, because it is politically opportunistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e951	I feel very confident that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Transport are more than prepared to answer that question, but I might recommend that Mr Ellingsen ask that question when they are present. I have my main responsibility in the defence sector, and at least there should be more aircraft in the air than more concrete on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e956	I'm going to ask the Council of State a question he might be able to answer. Since I entered the Storting in 1997, I have been involved in the processing of many messages and many propositions. What you've seen in retrospect is that there's been a massive internal dragonfight inside the defense to interpret the decisions that have been made. The government wants to lay down Mågerø. It's a decision we disagree with. Having a strategy where you collect all the eggs in one basket – or to say so, having one egg in one basket – is not a good strategy for the defence. However, in the debate on the closure of Mågerø, there has been a debate on how to distribute the missing jobs between Sørreisa and Retan. I would like a clear answer from the Council of State: how should the distribution of the approx. 100 workplaces be?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e965	I thank you for the question from the representative of Korsberg. First, I would like to say that the recommendation to drop Mågerø is a professional military recommendation that has not been promoted once, but several times, and that we are now following. The argument from both the previous Chief of Defense and the current Chief of Defence is that the CRC functions should be grouped in one place. Then the head of defense has recommended that this should happen in Bodø. We have gone in to do it on the South Route, among other things. because we believe that Sørreisa is a very modern facility that is suitable for this purpose. In the case of jobs from Mågerø, some of them will go to Bodø, Reitan, where they will help build the new air operation centre, which is something other than CRC, where complex air operations and interaction with FOH are to be managed and planned to connect air power to land and sea power. Then other positions will go to the South, depending on the functions to be filled. I do not operate and have individual positions. I'm busy telling the Defense which features to fill where.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e974	That part of the aircraft acquisition to be covered outside the Defence Normal Framework will be reduced in the long term by between 9.5 billion. kr and 15,5 brd. kr, in relation to the head of defence proposed in his professional-military council. In response to the Committee, the Ministry of Defence has said that the government considers that this reduction would not be decisive in terms of being able to continue today’s defence ambition in the long term. In the proposition, the reduction is referred to as a slightly smaller investment resource. What part of the investment portfolio does the Minister of Defense think can be eliminated without consequences for the overall defence ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e979	First of all, I want to thank you for the question. I share Eriksen Soreide's interest in the economy in the Defence and am happy to have an opportunity to say a little about it. In the period we're talking about, from now on to the end of the fighting aircraft investment, the defence budget will accumulate at 550 billion. kr. $9.5 billion. So SEK of them is 1.7 pst. of this. At the same time, we're strengthening the operating framework in the same period of 7 billion. kr. That difference is relatively small. In our plane, 10.9 pst. of the defence budget goes to fighter aircraft investment, and 38 pst. the investment budget will be allocated to the investment in combat aircraft. I don't think that's unreasonable. It cannot be the health budget and the Ministry of Knowledge budget to pay fighter aircraft. That almost has to be done in the Ministry of Defence's budget, and so we'll strengthen it by up to 28 billion. kr. I believe that all the other measures included in this plan are funded, for example. The army's largest acquisition ever of 146 storm armored carriages.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e986	The Council of State said that all relevant questions have been asked and answered. I would say that there are many relevant questions that have been asked, and it is far from all relevant questions that have been satisfactorily answered. What the chairman of the committee addresses is the core of what we are discussing. There is a big gap between the reality that the opposition has and the reality that the government uses in terms of economy and consistency in relation to structure and real operational ability. The question did not receive an answer. Where is it that you can make smaller investments in the range of 9.5 to 15.5 billion? kr, without going at the expense of the defence ambition? It actually puts the Minister of Defense's mention of the decision we make later today, which is the greatest investment for the Army of the ages, at 9.3 billion. kr, in another light, when it is below the lower part of this interval.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e993	Let me first say that it's not that the head of defense made an independent proposal. The Chief of Defense referred to our own plan – and I know it quite well, because I was in and wrote it as Secretary of State in 2008 – for how a rapid phase-in of fighter aircraft in the period 2016-2020 would happen. It was with very large peaks, so big peaks that the government that will sit in, for example. 2019, will not be able to afford to give money to any other thing in addition to continuing the last year's budget in any areas other than fighter aircraft. I do not know the government that will put all the money in that basket. Therefore, we chose to extend the investments over several years. The consequences of that, even with 28 billion. kr instead of 37.5 br. kr is that the annual burden on the normal investment budget of the Defence is not greatly increased. We're controlling this through something called perspective plan material. That is why I say again: there are no proposed measures in this plan that cannot be financed under this framework. So there's no concrete thing I'm going to take out, but I want to make sure that it's tight and clear governance, that we buy shelf products where it's possible, that we work with other countries under the concept of smart defence and can reproduce the structure as we've put it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e999	I want to continue a little bit on this as the Minister of Defense said he would like to talk about, namely, economics. I guess we recognize that there are some x-factors in the future that will also affect – what we're going to say – the more or less common operation in the defense. It is clear that the purchase of new fighter aircraft could affect it. Instead of being very rhetorical, I would like to ask: What critical points does the Minister of Defence consider to be particularly likely to affect the more ordinary operation of the defence in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1006	This is a very important question. It's actually one of the main tasks of a defence minister to identify them, and that's something that you do in the long run and from year to year, and try to deal with wisely. New technology costs money, new technology also creates solutions that make old technology superfluous. The most sensible and optimal phase-in of equipment is to increase the operational capability of the defence. In its 2011 Annual Report, the Defence Manager says that the level is significantly higher in 2011 than in 2010, and that the trend is positive. I'm very happy about that, and that's because we're doing these things. But immediately, I think my main challenge is to prevent people in this room now using the opportunity to use the defence budget to build runways The defence has not asked for – and does not need – or to maintain the structure that the defence management is unanimous that you no longer need, because that is at least a good reason to worry about the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1015	The government is planning an advanced operation base on Evens, and more in the Left are uncertain about the size of this base. To the Committee, the Councils of State stated: ‘there will be at least three fighter aeroplanes permanently stationed on Evens’. However, to NRK Troms, the Council of State said on 22 April that: ‘The letter to Stortinget has been misunderstood because QRA has been perceived as a normal situation’. And then he said, ‘The new fighter aeroplanes will have a balanced distribution between the Örland and Evenes.’ ‘Balanced distribution’ is slightly different from three aeroplanes. Of course – and cannot – the Storting must not make decisions about where the fighter aircraft should be at all times, but the Storting can make decisions about a normal situation. The question to the Council of State is: what does he think is the normal situation at Evenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1037	I thank you for the question. I have actually responded to this in the long-term plan for the defence, which Stortinget has been sent. It says it has to be a permanent QRA, 24 hours a day, year-round. It's two plus one flight, so three. Then, in periods, great exercises will be added to Evens. We estimate that 10 pst. the production of strength shall be from there, not consecutively, but during periods. In a war situation, however, I imagine that a significant part of the fleet is being moved up because the Evenes is well suited as a starting point for more sharp operations in terms of both location and robustness in that base. I just want to use the opportunity to say that we don't have fighter planes for peacetime. We have fighter planes in peace to use them if there's war. So there's a little bit of a difference between what you're using a base in a war situation, and what you're using a base in power production, in training and maintaining skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1044	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1047	It is an important debate we have today, for the adoption of a long-term defence plan is no small matter. The proposal for the long-term plan, presented by the government, has been the subject of considerable debate throughout the country. Our security policy assessments are a broad consensus, but when we start looking at structure and organization, the debate really speeds up. I think that's good, and I think that's healthy. I believe that the government has presented a plan and an economic basis that is solid and good. For the Labour Party, it is important that we have a defence adapted to the future and a plan and a defence that is in economic and structural balance. We're going to have the defense we need. The government's proposal has chosen to focus on the importance of having a good and competent staff. Here, it will be important in the future to review how to maintain competence and the order of command we should have. It was clearly established that the duty of protection is maintained and that consideration should be given to making the protection obligation gender neutral. The last thing I'm going to admit is that I'm very much in favour, and I'm glad that the committee supports such an assessment of just that. The government has had a thorough review of the Maritime Defense, Army and Homeland Protection. I am very pleased that you go beyond the Chief of Defense's professional military advice and keep the district structure of Homeland Protection as it is today, with a crew of 45,000. I also think it is right to continue three manoeuvring battalions at Brigade North. The biggest and most expensive decision to be taken today by the Storting is the acquisition of new fighter aircraft. There is an overall committee that goes in to acquire up to 52 F-35 fighter aircraft. I think it is important that this becomes a unanimous decision – that gives predictability. With regard to the overall structure of the Air Force, the Government proposes a comprehensive conversion. Of course, there is a great debate — perhaps especially on the location of Norway’s future fighter base. After a thorough assessment, investigation and external quality assurance country government to choose to have a main base for fighter aircraft located on Ørland, and a forward-looking operation base on Evenes. The reason for this is simply that we believe that we will have the best solution in terms of security policy, operational and economic. The choice of Ørland has been made because we then have a base that provides optimal conditions for daily power production and that gives freedom of action and flexibility for the future. There's little civil air traffic there, and that's a good starting point for convergence with the other defenses. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget on this election. All parties to the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, support Ørland as their sole base. The progress party will have it as today, with both Ørland and Bodø. In this regard, I need to say: I understand that this is difficult for Bodø and for several representatives here at Stortinget, because it is not easy to lay down a base. I'm even from the state that gets the fighter base, and I'm very happy about it, but I also know how I would have it if the decision were to be the opposite. But we believe that Ørland is the right choice – for the defense and for the country. What's going to be important in the future is to have a good process with the employees at the Bodø Air Station and the rest of the population. Then I have a heart attack. Many media lookups for a long time have produced that the Right is for continued operation in Bodø. That's not right. The right is to put down the fighter base that's there today. The Right – and Christian People’s Party – proposes, as Sverre Myrli also pointed out, to ask the government to investigate a solution for Bodø as a forward-looking base. That's a pretty big difference. Firstly, the Government has made its assessment. That is actually the assessment we are discussing here today. Second, I think this is a little bit special. If one is apparently for activity in Bodø, why does the Right do not support the management of the Air Force being moved there? I'm just wondering. The parties to the Government are solely concerned with this proposal. It is not easy to make difficult choices and decisions. Moving to jobs is not easy. It's not easy to lay down a base. But it is important to be honest and honest and not contribute to creating more uncertainty. No one deserves it, least of all the people of Bodø. I am proud to belong to a party that takes defence and security policy seriously. That is an important plan we are going to adopt here today. I hope for a still good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1073	‘The defence in the north must be planned against possible threats in ten to twenty years’ time from an aggressive Russia, resource-hungry China and even EU countries that wish to weaken our control of natural resources.’ This is from Secretary of State Roger Ingebreichsen, who gave a talk in Tromsø earlier this year. I am not going to take the debate on whether this is sensible use of words from political leadership in the Ministry of Defence, but the citizens are quite right that we have to facilitate a defence today that is able to solve unforeseen tasks and threats in 10-20 years' time. What seems unimaginable now can become realities. And that's all reason to think that the biggest challenges lie in the north. The best guarantee of peace and stability in the area is that we have the operational capacity to perform basic tasks, such as sovereignty and presence. Increased activity on many fronts, military and civil, in the north areas challenges us in new ways, including security and preparedness. All existing countries in the north build capacity and countries outside the Arctic find their way into the area. Activity will take place throughout the year, every day, and this must be reflected in our operating pattern. Much of what is going to happen in the north means great values for Norway. Then we have to be able to take care of these. History has taught us that unexpected things happen. In close and distant history, there are a number of geopolitical and more local events that have tested both Norway and the world. It will be completely irresponsible to provide a framework for a defence of Norway that only covers what is known. Crisiss and unexpected events are clearly characterised by a lack of long alert time — they come as lightning from the clear sky. They can come at any time, and then it is essential that important preparedness works – all the time. There are now some grips, not least the purchase of new fighter aircraft, which will be able to help raise our defence capabilities. However, it presupposes that the elements are put in place — and to an adequate degree — and that they are able to operate. It's no use having a high-tech defense with expensive components if we don't have the power to keep them in operation. We cannot base the success of the defence on which units exist on the paper, regardless of the strengths' capacity and actual preparedness. Comparing the defence budgets from one year to another and the defence budget in Norway with some other allies is probably a good exercise, but it's going to be very incomplete. It doesn't necessarily give us the answer as to whether we have a defense that works according to purpose or that is dimensioned for the problem. Safety policy challenges must be at the root of such an assessment. The fact that we are budgeting for some other NATO countries is, to a large extent, immaterial if we do not have the power to have a defence that takes our challenges seriously. The Defence Manager believes he needs more money to implement the changes that have now been proposed. He obviously doesn't get that from the government parties, and it will have consequences. The longer it takes to underfinance various defence tasks, the more problematic it becomes. It is likely to be possible to produce overviews showing a wide range of capacities, but the ability to actually be active will be limited. If you don't have the ability to finance the structure to be adopted now, you take enormous responsibility. If there is no money for all the good wishes and the agreed structure of the defence, choice must be made – do not undermine defence at a slow pace. It is now presented by some government party representatives that only the opposition questions whether the proposed structure is sustainable. I want to say that we are in good company – the head of defence has been mentioned, BFO has been mentioned. I would also like to quote from the hearing of the Institute of Defence Information, which says that the proposed ‘will mean that it is not possible to maintain the defence structure without significant additional appropriations’. We look forward with great excitement to the autumn budget. Finally, the representative Myrli makes a number that all changes in the structure of the Workers' Party are made to ensure the defence's ability and only that, now and historically – the Progress Party, among other things, is in a completely different position. One could wonder if the representative Myrli had brought with him the wrong talk and thought that he would hold an election appeal. You have to have a pretty intimate relationship with the Workers' Party to believe in the rhetoric that's going on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1096	I fully share the financial description of the long-term plan with the representative, Höglund. Unfortunately, there is no doubt that neither Norway, the nation of the NATO alliance, which is best equipped economically to have an economic development of defence in line with the NATO norm, has the power to comply with this norm. For example, we see – by comparison – that the cultural budget has received much more attention in terms of the time to come than the defence budget. There is a situation where the long-term plan is also characterised by a lack of attention to the security policy challenges we face, with a NATO that is at its knees economically and has significant problems contributing at all to the planned level as far as 2012. We know that the situation will deteriorate further in the time to come. In a comparable situation, we see that China’s economic muscles are visible further north, and that Russia is increasing its defence budget by about 20 p.m. per year. The government's and Barth Eide's answer is to express joy in their press release that we are solving this with a fig leaf in the form of two fighter planes located on Evenes, where personnel are going to commute from Ørland and up to Evenes. This means that we are weakening our presence in two thirds of the area in the country where we have authority responsibility – we will be less present in the future. I remember that there's probably only one reason why we're adopting the nation's largest mainland investment today when purchasing F-35, and that's that we have a neighbor in the northeast that we have to deal with in the future in a credible way. I understand that the Ministry of Defence has its biggest growth in the communications department. It is claimed that opposition representatives promise gold and green forests, and that we pursue election strategy. Well, you can imagine what you want to do -- at least there are experts in the area that speak out. When you go from the leadership of the Ministry of Defence to the grip of saying that we're lying, I think you bring the debate to a level I had hoped we could avoid. I have not seen anyone who has participated so far in the debate, who has based his policy on the long-term plan by means of lies. Either way, as the Council of State says in its press release, the government is not prepared to spend billions on asphalt, on a new runway in Bodø, instead of strengthening the pointed end of the defense. It is not one representative in the UK who has proposed it, but it is possible that attack is the best defence, both the leading military strategy and the political strategy in the ministry. This has been a matter of a democratic process without equal in this four-year period, in which all decisions have been taken 14 days before the Stortinge case, and where the representatives of the government parties in the Stortinge have not helped to move a single decimal point. The military counsel of the head of defence has been given the gallant side, and when we propose a different solution at a very substantial point – that is to go in order to preserve the best part of the sharp end of the Norwegian defence, the main flight station in Bodø – we are accused of promising gold and green forests. The representative Eva Kristin Hansen is standing here and saying that the Right proposes to shut down Bodø Main Air Station. That's not right. We have a different solution to the whole problem: we want to keep that part of the defense, the largest knowledge cluster we have in the defence in Norway today, which has been tested time and again in international missions, and which has repeatedly produced reputable results. So that part of the government is going to grow up today, by getting rid of Bodø. You have to bring a check of 1.3 billion. from Bodø and finance the operation of Ørland with. These are calculations that are similar to a card house that is not linked together. I find it interesting that the representative of the Central Party says that the government parties will clean up after themselves in Bodø. Unfortunately, we don't find a single penny, not a penny, in the financial package from the government to solve that challenge. So the question of rematch is nobody today who is able to answer before we see the real calculations of the cost of establishing continued operations in Bodø and the cost of developing the other parts that are proposed in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1109	Society is changing, the security policy image is changing, and defence must be constantly adapted to new tasks. As many have discussed earlier in the debate, the defence has undergone many heavy changes in recent years. It's taken a lot of people, but on the other hand, we've got a modern defense that solves problems both at home and outside. Many of the debates we have here at Stortinget today show the great contrast between what is happening out there in the big world and the opportunities we have in Norway. The defence debate is no exception. While the financial crisis and the euro crisis have put many defence budgets under pressure, in Norway we have a working population, and we have the economy in order. It allows us to invest further in a defense for the future, one of the world's most modern defenses, based on high skills and technology. At the same time, we still have to do the job of making sure that we have a structure and an organisation that is set up in a way that allows us to get the most defense back for the money. Of course, it is important for Norway to pursue its own interests in the neighbourhoods, especially in the north. The Nordic regions are Norway's foremost strategic focus in foreign policy, and here we must also take care of economic interests and environments. For the generations that come after us, this part of Norway opens up new, large and exciting opportunities for development. The sub-line agreement is in place, border resident certificates are in place and extensive illegal fishing has been abolished, not least thanks to the effective and competent efforts of the Coast Guard. The presence of the defence in the north will build up during this development in the future. The defense is heavily present in the north, and shall be so, despite the fact that the new fighter base is added to Ørland. I understand very, very well that people in Bodø are disappointed with that conclusion. The changes in defence affect cities and communities – it is not possible to get past – and so was the last time we dealt with the long-term plan, and the Joint Operational Headquarters were added to Bodø – to cheer there – and to great disappointment in Stavanger. In my opinion, the representative Kristiansen gives a very pictorial picture of the defence's efforts and presence in the north. Bodø is still going to be our defence capital, and with this plan will be added new, heavy tasks. In addition, there will be a new advance based on Evenes and control and warning in South travel, and with what is otherwise due to army structure, border guard and other defence structures, the Defense will have the best starting point to be able to play its role in the north even in the coming years. It's interesting to hear where the Right is in this debate. When the Right in other debates is challenged on its fiscal policy and on where the cuts are to be taken, the answer is always that we're just going to do things a little bit more modern and a little bit more efficient. But when it comes to the problem, the party does not have the same ability and the will to prioritize and make difficult choices. Then it is obviously most important to sit calmly in the boat and try not to become unfamiliar with anyone. I think that is very clear in this matter. The reality is that the Right supports the government in the field of combat aircraft. The only difference is that you want to figure out a forward-looking base in Bodø, which is thoroughly determined by the government's work. So I guess people in Bodø are wondering, like me and as many of the other representatives in the room have taken up, why the opposition doesn't agree with the government parties to move the air defence management to Reitan. The answer to that is enough that Right engagement with Bodø does not stick so deep when it comes to the piece – a rather mantra about doing things a little more modern and a little more efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1126	There has been a lot of talk about materialization and localization here today. Of course, it's important, but I want to talk about something that's even more important than that, that's our defense personnel. An effort defense means that as a nation, we must send women and men into the world on international missions. Since the Second World War ended, over 100,000 Norwegian soldiers have served in different countries and are fighting against the evil and for the values upon which our nation is built, such as peace, freedom, democracy and equivalency. The vast majority of service providers abroad came out of it strengthened. However, for some, foreign efforts have cost a lot. In addition to those sent home in the coffin, many return to Norway with physical and not least mental injuries and memory that are difficult to live with, which unfortunately confirms the high suicide rates among veterans. The option on page 8 contains the following: ‘The defence shall focus on the care of personnel involved in international operations and their closest both before, during and during the post-operation period.’;» When it comes to the time before and during an operation, I believe the follow-up of a sheep today is good and satisfying. When, on the other hand, the follow-up is due in time after a foreign operation, I think the defence and society have failed. The defence has improved on follow-up in the last few years, the failure is less than before, but still much better can be done. I don't think there's any better way to understand veterans than the veterans themselves. Several places in the country are places and events organized by veterans for veterans. Kronstad Headquarters in Bergen is a place where there is a lot of good activity for veterans. There is a place where everything is available from coffee and waffles to skirt and pizza. Among other things, on the last Friday of every month one has a collection in the cellar at Kronstad Headquarters in what they call Shelteret. There are Gaza veterans, Congo veterans, Yugoslavia veterans, Lebanon veterans and Afghanistan veterans and also veterans from other operations in an informal setting. There veterans can talk to veterans about what they want to talk about, in a safe environment. Such a scheme is, unfortunately, not many other places in the country. In Trondheim, there are now veterans, firemen, who want to start up and run a veteran's facility in Trondheim City for Trøndelag. The name is clear, Camp Nidaros, but the locations are not in place. They have a location they work with, but there Trondheim sees himself in the back because they want to use these locations for other things instead, without it having become anything out of it. I hope, in any case, that in some way it will take place in Trøndelag with Camp Nidaros, and that veterans in Trøndelag can have a similar offer as one in Hordaland. I also hope that the defense and other good forces can help these fire cells in this process. I think this is a good step, a good way to go. Therefore, I also hope that the defense can help veterans in other parts of the country get similar offers, especially in the big cities. In my opinion, this is a good offer, it's an effective offer, and it's also an offer that costs little compared to what one gets back, and what one gets out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1148	It is obvious that the starting point of the government parties is that sulphur is to be preached, or rather harsh words against the opposition to divert attention away from the content of the proposition and misrepresent the government's policy. I see the argument as amazing when the government makes changes to the defense chief's professional-military advice and says it's wise, sensible and absolutely necessary and that they only do it based on the operational ability of the defense. When the opposition makes changes, it's just part of a long campaign. It's the second time this government is making a long-term proposition, and that's the second time you don't get a broad deal in the Biggest about the proposition. There must be a danger signal that the Council of State and the Red-Greens must take over. We do not know what the next elections had to bring, but for the defence, it will always be positive that defence policy is the broadest possible consideration. It gives long-termity, and the government does not agree to give the defense when they only have a couple of representatives in the vote that will come later today. But the reasons why the government and the opposition look at it differently are the great distance in reality of what is the real status of the defence balance sheet, it is the sustainability of the economic assumptions for the coming planning period and it is the real operational ability of the defense. It makes me get into the defence economy. The government assumes that at the start of the current long-term period there is a fully funded and real balance between tasks, structure and economy. All objectives of the long-term plan from 2009 to 2012 shall be achieved. It's not a reality perception I and right parts. The right considers that the economic reality description is not consistent with the current situation. There is still a significant imbalance between defence-related tasks, structure and financial resources. There are large increases in operating costs related to government proposals in addition to the Defence Manager’s advice for the future period and important issues related to real wage and price compensation that are not addressed this time either. There are a number of independent observers and central defence environments that give Right-wing access to this. The right is therefore deeply concerned about the economic sustainability of today’s and future Norwegian defences. It must also be an alarm clock for the government and government parties that the opposition finds it necessary to ask 291 questions – clarifying questions – in order to obtain a decision-making basis in this case. The Council of State says that all relevant questions have been asked and answered. If the opposition asks questions about what the commuting costs in the defence are – and a follow-up that would also be interesting – and how to help reduce the commuting costs in the defense, the answer is that there will always be commuting in the defense. That's not the kind of answer we want. The question has been asked in a completely different way from the answer that comes, and so there were many cases in the round of questions and answers that took place. There are a number of attack points against the opposition – and the Right in particular. The foremost thing is that we conduct district policies. No, we are pursuing defence policy of Norwegian interests, solely because we want a strong forward-looking defence that actually puts operational capability first. This means that we have been in – and we want – to make Home Protection even better than today by focusing on the sharp end and not the number. We want to maintain Mågerø, precisely because we want the necessary toughness and redundancy. In the long run, we want three mechanized manoeuvring battalions in the Army. Converting is correct, but the pace must also be correct, and there must be solid and verifiable analyses. It is necessary to create anchoring and predictability throughout the organisation and to reduce loss of competence. This is part of the things that there are major shortcomings in what we are now discussing and that underlie the decisions of the government parties later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1162	The current government has worked over several years to achieve a sustainable balance between resources, tasks, level of ambition and operational capability of defence. That's the most important thing when we see it in the big whole. Today, it is a good balance with the ability to carry out today's tasks and at the same time invest in modern and forward-looking capacities, which we also need to decide – to those degrees – here today. It is also important to look at how we manage Community funds in a good and proper way. Then we must also make forward-looking decisions in this House. The further development of the Defence shall take place in a holistic manner and a sustainable balance shall be ensured. The defence sector shall be a relevant safety policy instrument for Norway in the future. Security policy developments indicate that there is still a need to further develop an response response response response response response to complex security policy challenges in the Norwegian state and societal development. We don't see that at all within the digital space. It's a new war zone that we have to be full of and take over. The government does, and so does the committee. The defence must be flexible, robust and capable of dealing with many different scenarios. Norway must have a defence capable of delivering adaptive contributions within a wide range of missions, both planned and unforeseen. The majority in the setting today look at it at most points, and the government parties are united on these important things. We also see it as very important to emphasise that defence is to be developed as a preventive instrument in the future. It's supposed to represent a war-preventing threshold. Our northern regions are facing new challenges. Fortunately, it is an area of safety and stability. It is marked by political stability, but we must be aware of what can happen in the future in this area, we must take into account how it can develop, and also look at the interest of the other countries in the area. There's a different situation in the north than in Skagerrak. The part-line agreement in the Barents Sea between Norway and Russia from 2011 provides new strength for cooperation and to facilitate better use of resources on both sides of this new border. Military cooperation between Russia and Norway, including: through regular visits and exercises, is important for the building of trust in the northern regions, and we must aim to continue this activity. At the same time, the northern regions have a high strategic significance for Russia, and Russia will continue to be an important factor for Norwegian security policy in the future. What I would also like to say about are the major challenges you face in the area of defence in terms of recruitment and retaining staff in the future. Personnel are, after all, the most important resource we have in Defence, on which we are going to build. Then we also have to have competence, and we have to organize the personnel in a proper and good way, so that we can take care of it. The 35-year rule shall be included in the assessment, as well as that this must also be seen against the framework for branches and sailors. In this area, as far as staff development is concerned, the Committee has, fortunately, been completely unanimous – a force for action must be taken here. This has been signaled by the government in a good and reassuring way, and here we must also take the defence organisations seriously and in the further assessments and developments in this area. Finally, I would like to say that defence and security policy is too important for an electoral campaign to take place in this area. If we look at the setting, it's fortunate to agree on the big structures. But we can't maintain a structure that isn't needed when we look at the whole. We must show the will to rule. It surprises me when the representative Skovholt Gitmark says that the minority in the committee, but the majority of the assembly misrepresents the government's policy. Why, then, are the Right Party and the Advance Party so eager to ask – they have asked 291 questions? There is no misalignment of policy. We continue to guarantee a defence for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1181	I will start in the same way as the representative Morten Höglund did, with a quote: ‘The defence in the north must be planned against possible threats in ten to twenty years’ time from an aggressive Russia, resource-hungry China and even EU countries that wish to weaken our control of natural resources.’ It was Secretary of State Roger Ingebrichtsen who said this in Tromsø. I just have to say that I and my party fully agree with those statements, and that is what forms the starting point for our policy. Our policies have different economic frameworks than those of the other parties. It has had it for all the time I've been on the Stortinget – it's beginning to be a few years – and that's the policy we think is necessary to carry out the defence tasks for a long time to come. It's not a good strategy to build up a defense, collect everything in one place and thus make sure to have all the eggs in one basket. It wasn't a good strategy when I was in first-time service, nor was it a good strategy when I was at the Defence College a few years ago. But that's what this government strategy is based on. We see many examples of that, and I think that is very worrying. Then, when we deal with this matter, I will also be allowed to thank everyone who has engaged in the matter. I'm not on the Foreign and Defence Committee, but I've got a lot of telephones and e-mails from people who get involved in the defense case, from people in the Defense and people around. It is with great concern that they look at the restructurings being carried out in the Defence and also that closure. It's useful and valuable recordings, and some of them I've asked if they can't go out into public space and say it. – No, as we're going to have a career in Defense, we can't do that, they answer. It's a concern to get one of those kind of messages. One of the things to put in a basket is the air surveillance and the closure of Mågerø. I am strongly opposed to that. I came from Troms and would, of course, if I had only been concerned with Troms, said that it was a good idea, but I am occupied with the whole defense. The entire defence has nothing to do with district policy, but simply with national policy. I challenged the Council of State in the change of line on how to distribute the jobs that disappear from Mågerø. I challenge the state council again to make a clear answer, because it's obvious, if you follow up a little bit in the media, a big game about these workplaces. If the Council of State does not respond now, he will be bombarded — if it is possible to use such an expression — with questions in the future as well. I see the council smile and nod, so I expect him to clarify it in his post. Then you can also read in the media that the Minister of Defense is threatening to break the contracts on the new NH90 helicopters. It's a decision that's anchored here in Stortinget, and I have to say I'm quite upset and find it a little eye-catching that the Council of State is going out and telling you to break a contract that's anchored here in Stortinget. Then I'd like to challenge the Council of State whether he has political coverage to go out with such statements, or whether there's a strong desire to get to the Control and Constitutional Committee and writing there. Now that committee has had quite a lot to do lately, but as far as I know, they would probably have been able to clear up space if it was such that you go out and initiate measures other than those adopted in this room. I expect the Council of State in its next post to tell you where such statements are anchored. That being said, I just want to say that the environment you have on Bardufoss in the case of helicopters is incredibly solid. And it is clear that it gives a lot of attention when you can now read that you are breaking the agreements with the purchase of the NH90. I'm waiting with excitement for the next post of the Council of State, where he gets to clean up a little bit in his unclear statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1208	In connection with the fact that we have the kind of debate we have today, the President allowed the word 'bombed' to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1211	This long-term plan marks the end of a comprehensive, correct and necessary change of defence – right because today’s and tomorrow’s threats to our security could not be dealt with with with yesterday’s defence structure, necessary because the gap between structure and resources meant an increasingly weakened defence capacity. The transitions have been demanding politically. The struggle to avoid the draining of traditional defence camps will always be intense. The change has been demanding for Defence, as extensive transformations in all large and complex organisations are. Therefore, today, the defence and its personnel must be praised for the good order of financial management as well as for the fact that they have provided their part of the assumption, namely a necessary improvement in efficiency. That is why we now have a defence where there is a balance between structure, tasks and resources, when we leave one long-term plan and enter the new period. Even more important is that we have a better defense than the old one – better seen in the light of today's and tomorrow's threats, which just as often occur far away, as in a Afghanistan or a Libya, and where the invasions happen every day in cyberspace. Today, when we decide to purchase new fighter aircraft and armoured vehicles, we will have renewed the defense's platforms and equipment, everything from gaiters and cookers to frigates and fighter aircraft. Yes, in some areas, we give the defense more than the head of defense thinks is necessary, when we maintain a HV force of 45,000 women and men. I believe that any other head of state is jealous of the head of defence for this: to get more of government and greatness than you ask! I would like to stress that this government has also put in place a good scientific policy. It deserves those who risk so much to care for their interests — more than 120 000 have served in foreign operations, from the German Brigade in 1947 to Afghanistan today. This conversion, for which Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal laid the foundations, and which began under the Bondevik government and is now completed, gives us one of the world's most modern defenses. While other countries have to cut budgets, we can increase them – 10 billion. kr to armoured vehicle, 60 brd. kr for new fighter aircraft. But the important thing is that because we have the ability to do something about an out-of-date structure, the appropriations for defence are now going to go to what we have defended – not to buildings, asphalt and concrete The defense does not need. There has been broad agreement on this distortion of defence resources, from things they don't need, to weapons, equipment, crew and training that give defence ability. Therefore it is so disappointing to see that the Right and Christian People's Party at this crossroads leaves this line. They push unpopular choices in front of them. The excuse is that the decision-making basis should not be good enough. The technique is to ask 291 questions, but not accept the answers, because they do not like the answers they get. It is not the basis for decision that is too poor, it is the decision-making capacity of the Right and Christian People's Party that is not good enough. Nevertheless, the decision today is not to be remedied, if things go so wrong that the two parties can take the government offices after the next elections. It can therefore not be expressed more clearly: The Right Party and the Advance Party – yes, also the Christian People's Party – present here today something that is much more similar to the electoral plan of the parties than to a long-term plan of defence on which they could rule. The progress party Morten Höglund said we had to make choices. It is an interesting opinion of a lot which, at any long-term plan, refuses to make choices and shall retain everything that it is. Then I would like to underline something that has not been so advanced in the debate, namely the importance of the industrial programme related to the purchase of combat aircraft and our need for Joint Strike Missile to enter these planes. Lockheed Martin and the US authorities should note that an overall committee stresses that the Americans must contribute to the integration of JSM into F-35 before the Minister of Defence signs the contract. I am also pleased that a joint committee points out that radar is also an area for cooperation between the Defence and the Norwegian defence industry. This can mean a lot for the development of jobs in Norway. Finally, a little about the protection requirement: although a minority of young people are serving first-time services today, the general duty of protection is important. It gives everyone a responsibility for their country, and it gives the Defense the opportunity to choose the most motivated and the most suitable to serve the duty of protection. That is why we need to keep it and adapt it to the needs of our time. But I also believe, as others have pointed out, that the time has come to ensure that the duty of protection also applies to women. We need more female competence in a defense for our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1243	Some may claim that this is some kind of greeting home to Westfold by my side, but this article is really about the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party today deciding to reduce the preparedness for terror, serious accidents in the air, across the East, the West, the Southland and parts of Middle Norway. They do so against better knowledge, with full consideration and exclusively for the sake of district policy. In the name of district policy, the danger of most of our country being placed in radar blindness is now increasing. As Mr Korsberg said from the Chair a little ago, Norwegian defence policy should be governed as a national policy, not as a district policy. When the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party decide today to lay down the CRC on Mågerø and strengthen the corresponding unity in South Travel, they know that the danger that the three lines of communication from this part of the country we are now in, and across the mountain to South Travel, are in poor condition. During the Cold Response exercise, I was a trip into Mågerø and witnessed myself that two of the three connecting lines that are to South Travel went down due to bad weather. A terrorist who wants to hit the Grand Ring or the government quarter with a small airplane filled with explosives can ask a friend to blow up three points where Norway is the narrowest, and put half the country in radar blind. The fact that this decision is to be taken today, eleven months after Norway’s invulnerability was removed from us, is incomprehensible. On July 22, we quickly learned how important it is to be able to share responsibility between the two CRCs we have today. Mågerø could concentrate on activity in and around Oslo, while Sørreisa took over the rest of the country. It is far from unmistakable that a second estimate could come airborne. If there is too bad weather, or there is a technical failure on Sørreisa in the event of a possible subsequent terrorist attack on Norway, all our state institutions will be open to attack from the air because they will be blind on Sørreisa. This is a calculated risk, said State Secretary Roger Ingebreichsen of Tønsberg's magazine on March 30. It is a risk level The Progress Party believes is unsustainable – although I see the Minister of Defence smiling of this in the Chamber now. I'm startled that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party seem to understand little of what risks they will present today to most of the country's population. As Vice-Chairman of the so-called July 22 Committee, I was quite pleased that the government parties showed great willingness to cooperate on solutions in important areas. I thought that they took preparedness and security seriously, and I was very pleased with the consensus we found in the committee. At the first crossroads where preparedness and security are re-tested, the same batches fail fundamentally – not because they believe it is professionally important or right, but because there is an agreement in the backroom that some parts of the country have to get a little more when they sacrifice something else. There are not many factual arguments for Norway to become the first country in NATO with one CRC. Not even small Denmark dares to go from two to one, even without high mountains and long fjords. In practice, it is not an option to save on closure, but the costs of closure are also not mentioned in the proposition. I saw with some interest that GIL tried to find a clever explanation in the VG by saying that the endurance of the new system is to be achieved by developing duplicated technological solutions, including a mobile control unit. That's directly wrong. Firstly, there is no amount of money added for duplication, and secondly, a mobile device is not relevant in this image at all. Perhaps GIL wrote this so poorly argumentatively just to demonstrate that there are actually no good arguments to put all eggs in a basket and hope that the future brings peace, deportability and the absence of terror. It's allowed to hope. But the whole point of readiness is to be prepared for the unmistakable. The country's leading research and technology development environment in Mågerø is now being destroyed in terms of CRC. The citizens of half the country are exposed to what the Ingebrichsen called calculated risk. Gad knows who in this room can stand up, put your hand on the heart and say that this change we're doing to improve defense, improve preparedness and ensure more security for people most. The fact that there is a performance in such matters is simply too stupid, and that the Workers' Party commits itself to a recipe for potential future disaster even before the matter is brought before the Storting, it is serious. But let there never be any doubt as to who is responsible if the undisputed one was to hit, the day that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1258	The proposition states that the Defence shall respect Norwegian sovereignty, Norwegian rights, interests and values alone and together with allies. The defence may also make valuable contributions in crisis situations. These are major and important tasks which call for adaptability and which require the availability of the economy to be proportionate to the ambitions. In Norway, we are in a favourable position to strengthen defence at a time when most other countries in Europe have to make major cuts, as the Council of State also said. The government has clearly established that the northern regions are Norway’s foremost strategic area of activity. This also implies that the presence and activity of the defence must be strong in the north. I am therefore pleased that in 2008 we were able to strengthen the defence in the north by, among other things, Operational headquarters was moved northwards to Retan and Bodø. This was a very important move, and it has proven that something can be directed from the north. I am therefore surprised that the Right criticises the government for the lack of defence in the north, when we know at the same time that they and the rest of the opposition voted against this important move. Good processes are very important when carrying out large conversions. I want to commend the Council of State and the government for good processes this time as well. I myself come from a defence force, and I know how strongly changes in the defence can affect municipalities, communities and not least employees. At the same time, the defence municipalities and their residents have a very large focus on the best possible organisation and flexibility for defence. I am pleased with the development that is now taking place in Inner Troms. We can certainly say that Inner Troms is a strong focus of Norwegian defence. I would also like to express satisfaction with the willingness to find good solutions that will allow today's tasks for Trom's military hospitals to continue in a way that serves both civil society and defence. I am also pleased that the very modern air surveillance system in Southreisa is being maintained and strengthened. With the big investments that have been made, which are to be made here, it is now time to see this station in a very long-term perspective. Here's the good place, and here's the great competence and stable labour force. Most workers are permanently resident in the area. When it comes to the choice of fighter base, we have to focus on the professional assessments, but one imperative requirement is that there must be fighter aircraft stationed also in the north. I believe this is being fulfilled by the fact that the modern base of Evenes in the Nordic region is being re-used. Evens is the last flight station built in Norway, and I am of those who have believed that these large investments could be useful again. On 14 May of this year, the Inspector General of the Air Force also said to the newspaper Harstad Tidende that, overall, Evenes is the best option as a forward base in the north. This professional assessment is important in this debate today. We also have to say that the plane station on Evenes is located in an area where noise problems are minimal. At the same time, this station is located between two active urban communities with good offers in terms of both education, work, culture, children, youth, etc. Several smaller and vital rural communities and urban centres are also located on both sides of the Evene airstation. This makes the air station even more attractive to those who are going to work there in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1279	Let me begin by expressing disappointment – my own disappointment, the disappointment of very many inhabitants of Bodø and Nordland and the disappointment of many throughout North Norway. For 60 years, the defense has had a base for fighter aircraft in Bodø, and we are disappointed because a large majority in the Stortinget today will change it. Let me underline that Bodø would have been a good alternative to Ørland as the sole base for the fighter planes in the future, not least because one could have collected all the operations on one base and still had an adequate and clear presence of fighter aircraft in the north. It won't come as a surprise to anyone what the decision is going to be in Stortinget today. It's clearly been quite a long time. We've also clearly communicated it through the media. For us, pretending to be something else would be throwing blues in people's eyes. Difficult decisions need to be taken; they cannot only be pushed out in time with considerable uncertainty for those concerned. I understand – and share – the disappointment of many of my constituents and other residents in Bodø and in Northernland. After working systematically to locate the new combat planes in Bodø since 2006 together with many good party traps, I still admit that we have lost that fight. Now it's time to look ahead. When the defense leaves the areas of Bodø they have disposed of for their aircraft operations for 60 years, the defense cannot just close its eyes and pretend like nothing. At the closure of the main Bodø airfield, it is necessary that the defence contributes in an acceptable way to restoring the areas it has disposed of to civil society. I assume that the government, in consultation with local authorities, will provide an appropriate return, so that the areas can be used to develop new jobs. Then I would like to stress that in that process, the Municipality of Bodø must be able to dispose of the available area quickly, so that the closure of the air station does not impose unnecessary restrictions on the development of the important engine Bodø is in the region. There is reason to believe that the activities of the Defence Agency may have an environmental impact. Extent of emissions, pollution, etc. must be identified, and it is necessary to assess whether the defence should be cleaned up in any harmful environmental conditions before leaving the areas, at least those taking over the areas must recognise their responsibility for cleaning up the areas. We cannot allow the responsibility for the environmental pressures that have been imposed on civil society to be powdered. Bodø Airport is one of the most trafficked airports in the country, measured in both passenger and air movement. Today owns and runs the defense airport, and Avinor pays for its use. A smooth transfer of ownership responsibility to Avinor must be ensured in the event of the closure of the main airfield. The state of the runway also provides for rapid clearance, and we must not get into a situation where inter-sectoral communication limits the development of one of the main airports in the region. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee, through its comments, shows that they support the view of these matters. If you want to understand the modern North Norway, you have to understand the cold war. During the Cold War, a significant infrastructure was built by military facilities in Norway, especially in North Norway. Many of these installations have been sold, transferred to others or closed. The cold war is a central part of Norwegian history, and it is important that some of these military facilities are taken care of later. Unfortunately, many of the facilities are naturally far out of all colors and are therefore difficult to access to a wide audience. Bodø Main Aviation Station contains an atomic-safe hangar that can be a conservation fixture from the period and can be easily made available to the public. It could also be a strength for the National Aviation Museum, one of the few national museums located outside the capital, and for the Defence Aviation Museum, located only a few hundred metres away from this hangar. I am pleased that the Committee, in its comments, is concerned with the conservation of relevant fastening facilities. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State whether he will be able to make an assessment of whether Annex 96 at Bodø Main Aviation Station can be conservation and, if necessary, look at the possibility of how this can be used in cooperation with those museums. Bodø is, as many have said, the defence capital of Norway and must also be in the future. It will be strengthened by the fact that the government parties in Stortinget will now support it while moving GIL and the Air Force's top management, etc. to Bodø. The strengthening of a national air operation centre will also underline the importance of Bodø as the defence capital. It is not a compensation for shutting down the main aviation station; it is a relocation and an establishment that will strengthen Norway’s operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1302	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1305	Home security is an important strength of effort in our long-term country, primarily as part of our military defence, but it is also available for civil action where necessary. The unique thing about Homeland Protection is that you can quickly mobilize large teams locally. This local mobilisation is particularly important in parts of the country where the emergence of extreme weather conditions can be difficult, both by land, by water and by air. This was fully experienced during the storm of Dagmar's dramatic visit to the northwestern part of Rome. Had it not been for the rapid mobilisation and effort of Homeland Protection, the inhabitants would have been guaranteed both powerless and pathless much longer than they were. The dramatic events of July 22 showed us that acts of terrorism can hit the country violently, anywhere and at any time. Here, too, the Home Office made a great and important effort. When the head of defense in his professional military council proposed to lay down more home security districts, many were strongly mobilised to influence the government before it was to present its long-term defence plan. Of course, this was especially true in the regions where the Home Office was proposed to be closed – including in my home country, More and Romesdal, where HV-11 and Setnesmoen were threatened. Politicians and trade unions, with several organizations, brought to the squares many strong and sound reasons for the need for the district to continue. I want to commend the Council of State and the government for how accessible they made themselves available to all those who had opinions on the occasion of the case, and the argument we know reached. That's why many people breathe lightly and are very pleased with the government's attitude towards Home Protection when the long-term defence plan is adopted in the Stortinget today. I'm glad the government won't centralize Homeland. Not only will the possibility of mobilising rapidly locally become worse, but the local knowledge that the local Home Office has today would also disappear. The working party is occupied by a good and safe preparedness throughout the country. We will show that, among other things. through the proposal for a district structure in the Home Office, and by increasing the scope of training and practice. The Labour Party is also committed to further developing and modernising what we already have. That's why we are very pleased with the government's announced work, looking at how we can best use Home Security, Civil Protection and the police reserve together to ensure social security in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1328	After listening to the debate so far, I think I would ask the Labour Party to put aside the criticism that the opposition is justifying its position, that this is about district policy and electoral campaign – this cheap rhetoric must be dropped. I want to be very careful to say that so far it is the Workers' Party that has concentrated most on localization issues. I think it is important for the Workers' Party to take responsibility for its own policies. An overall opposition will vote against the closure of the Rygge Air Station, and we do so because we believe that the government's proposal is poorly investigated and poorly justified. The Ministry of Defence has not been able to answer entirely fundamental questions relating to operational conditions, costs and the government's assumption of the disposal of large areas, while maintaining military activity. So it's not related. Important infrastructure for air-military preparedness, ammunition storage and fuel installations will need to be continued. The same applies to functions that need to be maintained for Home Affairs. The government has not been able to provide the necessary answers on how this should happen, and how much money it should cost. These are matters that require further investigation. The opposition is also gathered that we will continue military operations at Rygge, and it's not about a postponement. We believe that today's military operations, in conjunction with Rygge Civil Airport, are a good model, both for the Defence and for the airport. The sharing of costs is beneficial to the defence, while ensuring full rights and flexibility through military operations. Based on what we have been able to bring on the clean, closure, liquidation and relocation from Back has been a prerequisite for all the three investigations that have been made. It won't last. I recall once again that the transfer of the Air Force General Inspector with the Staff and Air Inspectorate is not recommended by the Chief of Defense. The proposed relocation has high economic costs and will constitute a major added burden in an already demanding time for the Air Force. Therefore, it would be desirable to provide organisations and the environment with the actual planning and management of the conversion, namely the inspector-general with staff and directorate, calm and predictability. There are also good prerequisites for a power collection of Air Force activities in South Norway, on Rygge. Co-location between military activity — such as tactical helicopter transport, civil protection missions — and police sharpest units should also have been assessed. It's not done. It is also the case that when it comes to putting the entire East and South countries bare for air defence, my only comment is that they are dry! I think it's important to say that when we've asked if you could have seen the justice sector and the defence sector together, then the Council of Defense's answer is that we've only done that in terms of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1343	Let me first say that there has been a demanding time for us workers' party representatives from Northern Ireland – it is not possible to get under the chair – after the decision of the big group on 29 February on Ørland instead of Bodø as a fighter aircraft base. In that group meeting, signed proposals for Bodø on behalf of the four of us from Northern Ireland. It's important to get it out of this pulpit, because there's actually someone who's accused us of not doing anything. We've fought for Bodø all the way to the finish line and across the finish line. First of all, I would like to commend the process that the Council of State had set up in advance. I think that we from the Nordland Workers' Party and the Nordland bench have taken many initiatives to discuss this, both before the decision and after the decision of the large-scale group. It has also helped the Council of State to contribute, and there has not been a lack of it. The government has landed in Ørland, and with forward-looking base on Evenes, and that's how the decision that's being made here today will be. What is important now is to look forward and look at the opportunities that exist for the future, in close dialogue with the municipality of Bodø, the county council, employees, etc. As early as 19 June, a meeting was initiated in Bodø with various actors on the theme ‘Bodø after F-16’. That's very good, and that work starts now. We've also had close dialogue with the employees at the main flight station, and we've been honest with each other and suggested which way this was going. It has been a matter of course that the employees have fought all the way in. But after today, it is important to look at the opportunities ahead of you in the years you meet. The main work now involves staff and competence and the ability to attract, recruit, develop, apply and maintain the right qualified personnel. It is one of the main challenges facing the defence sector. I am very pleased that this should be given high priority in the coming long-term. The transfer of the Air Force General Inspector-General with a staff to Retan will amount to approx. 200–250 posts at the end of 2014. But this has kind of gone away in the discussion. We have to view this as a very positive contribution to what's going to happen further in Bodø, and not just talk negatively about it. Finally, I would like to say two words about Homeland Protection. I am very pleased that Home Security is continuing with the same district structure as it is today, and with about the same staffing frameworks. I'm very pleased that the Drivejamo on Helgeland will pass. Today, we will make a decision on a good overall long-term defence plan, which will be in force for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1370	The setting we're dealing with today is called a defense for our time, and that's a good headline. Any defense needs to be adapted to its time. Too often we have seen that the defense has adapted to the last war. All too often, we have seen that the structure has become at a high level of district policy. Today we have a defence that we should be proud of. We're getting a defense that we're going to be even more proud of. I had the pleasure of being present when the head of defense presented his recommendation, and it pleased me. For more than 40 years, I was in the Air Force on a series of, almost continuous structural changes, and I'm going to promise you that for the staff. Now I hope we'll let it go for many, many years to come. There's also a lot of consensus in this room about most of the setting, most of what's important. Perhaps the most important thing is the flight purchase, which will provide a capacity that is completely formidable, and which we will have great joy from. Ellings said if these planes are as good as F-16, we're going to be satisfied. I had the pleasure of flying the F-35 simulator on Kjeller two weeks ago, and I'm going to promise that there's something completely different. Another thing I want to mention is the duty of protection, which Sverre Myrli mentioned. I have experience from the NATO staff, how many have worked for me without being part of a protective defense. My conclusion was: Thank me to a Norwegian Corporal who comes in for a year! Let me say a little bit about the structure. Ørland as a fighter aircraft base is an excellent choice based on my experience from Ramstein, where I conducted air operations. No other base in Europe is close to having those possibilities on either the base or the exercise area, not to mention having the AWACS base there. We tried several times, but we didn't do very well compared to Ørland. When it comes to QRA, the head of defense has said that there's no need for it, because we can do that regardless of how we move. We've shown that through the operations in Libya. When it comes to one, I would have liked it to be Andøya, because then we had a one-off investment for the noise. Now, on the other hand, we have to run two bases, and that's not good. I will also mention that in the case of Bodø, the Right has said that we want an investigation of the costs of getting out of Ørland, and Eirik Sivertsen expressed what the Right believes here. Finally, the CRC structure, Mågerø. Maybe that's what takes me the most. I recommended in its time to shut down five of the other stations, and we sat back with an absolute minimum, far below what most other countries have. This in many cases puts South Norway in the dark when it comes to managing air operations. I hope at least that it's postponed until we have secure lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1391	Northern areas are developing rapidly. During a few decades, the area has gone from being a security policy area to a real energy and resource policy centre, with opportunities for navigation leaders for significant maritime transport. Nordgebietpolitik has developed into Norway’s main strategic focus, and it will be reflected in the further development of the Defence. The defence carries out its core activity in the north, and they must therefore be heavily present in the north for all areas of defence. Therefore, the choice of fighter aircraft base has also been very demanding. I would also like to stress that it is important to show respect for and pride over the great effort of the defence personnel every day for the nation, when we are now holding a debate on the future of defence. The new long-term plan states that there should be a strong presence in the north through the strengthening of the Air Force and the Army in Troms and the establishment of a permanent forward fighter base, QRA, on Evenes. This is important to ensure the presence of fighter planes in the northern regions, and I have expectations that there will be an increase in fighter aircraft activity at Evenes in the future. The centre party is satisfied that the 2nd Battalion on Skjold shall be maintained and that the army's volume and focus on the protection obligation shall be maintained, in addition to ensuring the operation of Bardufoss airport, and that Bardufoss shall continue as the main base for military helicopters. For the Centre Party, these are very important issues in the work on a new long-term plan. The centre party is committed to continuing Trom's military hospital within a framework within which it will be possible to further develop into a local medical centre. It is now important to clarify how this health service should be carried out in line with the Interaction Reform and to ensure that the defence contributes financially to this work. It is also important that a medical offer is maintained in Bardu until the new centre is in place. I am pleased that all of the Air Force control and warning activities will take place on CRC South Travel, together with the Air Force Control and Alert School, and that the Committee in its comments will clarify this. It is therefore very important that a necessary number of staff are now transferred to South Africa in order to carry out the overall tasks. This is the most sensible solution for Defence, in one of NATO's most modern facilities. The centre party fully agrees with the committee when it is stressed that the school centre must be moved to South Africa as soon as possible. I would like to pay tribute to those elected and employed by CRC Sørreisa and to my red-green colleagues for their efforts in the last few months. Now I look forward to attending the 50th anniversary of the CRC South Trip for the weekend. It is in the Grand Duchy that the political decisions are taken. Now the generals must also follow the clear orders of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1412	I feel the need to link some comments especially to what has been said by Anundsen and others about Mågerø. Of course, it is not that we should be blind at any time when it comes to air surveillance in Norway, nor is it, of course, that this is a product of a so-called political game, where someone has been in political leadership and found that we are dealing with only one control and warning station. That's what the Chief of Defense has done, and the former Chief of Defense did, and it's up to the Director-General of Air Force. The Chief of Defense then suggested that we set up an air operation centre on Retan. It's not a control and warning station, but it'll have the opportunity to take over many of the control and warning station's capabilities in a crisis situation, so there's as much redundancy as you've had now. In addition, we are allies in NATO, we already share the aerial picture with other countries, and one of the clear trends – I spoke to my Belgian colleague last night – is that European countries share in monitoring the aerial image in Europe. We have a large area, we're going to do it in Norway, of course, but technology is developing so that it's not where you sit, but where the radar is standing, which determines the quality you have. The representative Myraune had an important point, which I would like to highlight especially here, and it is that there must be a connection between any such decision, as I understand the representative Myraune, and secured lines. Then I remember that in the hearing we also informed that substantial investments are now being made in military digital fibre networks that further increase redundancy in the lines in Norway. That's why this idea that it's a certain point, some place randomly in Middle Norway, that you can cut over with seaweed, is completely basic crazy. That's good. We have a very high focus now on information security, also on the security of the system. I understand the concern of those who work there, it's a great environment, it's a great job, I know it, but it's like sometimes you have to make some of these choices. Then I would like to stress to Eirik Sivertsen's post that of course it is such that we are going to have a good dialogue with the municipality of Bodø and the people who live there, about the closure of the air station, as the defense has done many other places. It's always sad to lose a defense facility. My experience is that things are going pretty well, and both areas, buildings and infrastructure can be used for other societal purposes, including perhaps museum operations. Without wanting to stand here and promise something, at least I want to say that I have had the first meeting with the chairman of the Ice Front to see to what extent one can take advantage of any of this to the historical interest that it would definitely have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1423	I think it is a pity that the government parties here today are not going to support the proposal of an overall opposition to set up a wide-ranging set of mandates to consider an overall alternative to today's compensation schemes for injured veterans. The right and the other opposition parties have suggested a modernised war pension or equivalent. It would have served the government parties to support this proposal and to increase the recognition and importance of the efforts of Norwegian soldiers in sharp missions, and when they are harmed for life. There has been a great deal of consensus in this Chamber about strengthening the recognition and follow-up of the Defence veterans. That's why it's surprising that we're separating layers here. In the opinion of the Right, we are not at the goal, because today's arrangements for damages to injured veterans are perceived as unbridled and unblemished. Furthermore, the principle of equal compensation for equal damage is not applied. The right is therefore of the opinion that there is a great need to bring together and simplify the compensation schemes, and therefore, in the form of a service-based, modernised war pension. Many of the veterans and the injured have performed their duties in the light of our special forces, the FSK, the HJK and the MJK. They constitute a very important capacity at the definitive pointed end of the defence. This is the great cross-political agreement, and that's good. It is therefore very expected that in the Right we will attend the Defence Force's possibility study for further development of the Special Forces' preparedness for counter-terrorism operations. In its comments, an overall committee sends a clear signal that the head of defence should consider giving MJK national tasks related to maritime counter-terrorism and a formalised response role. The most important of our installations related to oil and gas activities are located in MJK’s neighbourhood in the West and North Norway. Response time, maritime competence and not least the connection and proximity of the food clusters should be essential to ensure that these important capacities are provided with a new operational device, which is also fully required. It's shown us last year's events.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1434	I record that Secretary of State Roger Ingebrichsen is being quoted more than the Minister of Defence, and then it is tempting to ask if the Minister of Defence has a ‘free cannon on deck’. The Progress Party wants to maintain the strength of Homeland Security, within a framework of 45,000 troops, with 5,000 soldiers in the intervention force. Home security is a significant resource in the context of territorial defence. The progress party is concerned that the entire Home Protection system must be equipped so that it has the best possible equipment and the right capacities to perform its tasks. In order to maximise the use of Home Protection and the resource that HV is, including in supporting civil society, more training and training needs to be provided. The Progress Party believes that there must be annual training on individual objects to ensure that crews and planning are up-to-date and prepared for the mission. Over the years, many concerns related to the development and operational capacity of Home Affairs have been raised. Lack of exercise and training, with an absolute burn level in 2009, has greatly reduced the real operational capacity of large parts of the Home Security structure. That's why it's absolutely necessary to reverse this trend, which not least more events in the last year have shown us. The Progress Party is committed to maximising the use of all societal resources. Close cooperation with other relevant bodies is necessary to ensure that society has the best possible preparedness and is well-equipped in the event of unforeseen events or disasters. Cooperation with civil protection and the police must be strengthened, and joint exercises and contingency plans must be set up, where natural. Maritime protection is a significant resource with important military tasks related to coastal and coastal waters. We are concerned that the soldiers of the Sjöheimevertet should be trained and trained in close cooperation with both the Landheimevertet and the Departments of Maritime Defence. The progress party does not want what we see as a strong reduction in the protection of the Sea Home, as it is put up for by the government. We want to continue the current tasks related to maritime surveillance, control of shipping and reinforced features protection devices.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1451	This matter concerns a great many in and around the Defense, and the great commitment to the cause is a sign of health in a democratic country. Localisation issues are difficult – many people in this room have had experience, and we have heard more say that. The willingness to defend is about the insurance premium that we are willing to pay to maintain a free and independent Norway. The challenges of the Cold War have been met by new security policy challenges, which require the nation of Norway to have sufficient defence capabilities, both on land, on water and in the air. Therefore, the Right is committed to strengthening the operational capability of the Defence, and therefore the Right has proposed other priorities and solutions than the Government, on a number of points. That is why the Right is also genuinely concerned with a personnel and competence reform in Defence. A high-tech defence imposes other and at least equal requirements on the competence and stability of defence personnel. Norway’s Northern Territory Challenges also have a defence side. Modernisation and construction of Russian defence capacity in the north is a reality. The Norwegian response must be a robust and clear presence of Norwegian defence in the north, also in the future. The Armed Forces Troms, with the Army's centre of gravity in the north of Bardu and Målselv, the Air Force Helicopter Base at Bardufoss and CRC in Sørreisa, carry out important tasks in the Defence Force Production. With the large investments made in practice fields, such as the interconnection of Mauken-Blatin, Inner Troms has taken care of its important host role by facilitating even better the activities of Defence. I would also like to remind you that foreign forces from a number of NATO countries frequently use exercise areas throughout Troms. I welcome the broad consensus on the need to further develop the defence business in the north, and am pleased that Inner Troms will continue to be an important hub for the Norwegian defence. But I wish the government had followed the Right in raising the ambition level for the 2nd Battalion, and would make it a heavier department, in line with the Telemark battalion. I believe it is a mistake not to follow the Right's suggestion, which would mean a more impactful protection of the home. The base structure of the new fighter aircraft has received considerable attention. Here is the right government in the choice of the main base, but we are clear on the need for a permanent forward base and have Bodø as our preferred alternative, with the solid aviation competence that you own there. But let me make it clear: if the Right Prerequisites for Bodø cannot be met, I believe Evenes will be a very good alternative. Finally, the defence personnel represent a large proportion of the population of Inner Troms. It requires that the Defence Agency, in close cooperation with the relevant municipalities and Health Nord, actively contribute to finding good solutions to continue the good and effective health care provision at the Trom military hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1468	My view of the Air Force Battle Base election is that it should be in North Norway, as it has done in the last 60 years. The security policy situation is the same: the main area of activity of the Air Force and the main challenges lie in the north. Therefore, the main base should also be in the north. That's why I think the election should be Bodø, not Ørland. That was not received by me and Nordland SV majority because when the matter was dealt with by the government, and now I find that the entire opposition, with the exception of the Progress Party, believes that Ørland should be the main base. We have to bow to that -- that's democracy. Then it's important that there be a forward-looking base in the north, and the choice of Evenes is absolutely correct, based on an overall assessment. The reasons lie in the peer review, where Evenes and Andøya were referred to as the priority alternatives to a QRA. The important thing now is that the establishment of Evenes is well implemented and in close cooperation with the municipality and the region. As far as Bodø is concerned, the tasks of the Defense and the State are growing. In the coming years, it is particularly important that the defence clears up and facilitates the conversion of the municipality and the region after the loss of very many valuable jobs – 2,000 pcs., if the defence staff and those supplying the defence are included. The air defence staff must be properly cared for. For Bodø municipality, the availability of vacant areas will be the main thing. Bodø needs new areas to create growth and development, and the potential here is great. But the areas between the runway and the sea, those that the Defense leaves, are of limited value. The runway must be moved and the areas where the runway is today must be made available for the development of the Bodø community. It is not much to demand as a conversion package for a municipality that has been the host municipality of the Air Force and fighter aircraft for the last 60 years. This has to be solved in a splice layer. Income from the sale of property and expenditure is covered in a split layer where transport, defence and local government are included. It will be the main task of the clearing and conversion work of the large-scale society to contribute to Bodø in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1479	For more than 10 years, Air Force employees have been waiting for an explanation of the base structure. As a resident of Ørland, I know that it has been a difficult and demanding period. Living in uncertainty – should my workplace be laid down, must I move, or can I build myself a house and establish myself? – is not a good situation to live over very many years. I am therefore very pleased that the Storting today adopts the future base structure, and that the majority, the government parties, are so clear in their elections. Of course, I'm most happy that you choose Ørland as the new main base for the Defense's new fighter aircraft. The qualities of Ørland are no one who now contests. Ørland has unique practice options, not only on a Norwegian scale, but in Europe. It showed, not least, the recent NATO exercise ‘Tiger Air Meet’, which was a major allied collective exercise in Ørland. It's not the first NATO exercise held in Ørland, but it comes into the range of countless similar exercises in recent years. A solution with a main base on Ørland and a forward-looking base on Evenes provides good flight coverage throughout the country. We also need combat flight coverage in Norway south of Trondheimsfjorden. I'm a little surprised that the Right Defense Party is refusing to make clear and clear choices about base structure. Fortunately, they are aware that they want Ørland as their main base, but as long as they are unclear as to where the forward base should be, there is also uncertainty as to the whole base structure. We have heard Right Ivar Kristiansen earlier here today being very clear that the base should be in Bodø, and we have also heard Right's closest cooperation partner, the Progress Party, with its defence spokesperson, Jan Arild Ellingsen, earlier expressing the wish for a rematch on the entire base election if they come into government. I'm a little surprised that the Right is so critical of the investigation work done on base elections, because this is a thorough professional-military investigation, it's been at the hearing, and there's been a comprehensive and thorough proceedings in the Ministry of Defence, where all the alternatives have been investigated. In addition, the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee has had a thorough discussion. What's the right now that they have to figure out more? I don't think it's possible to figure out any more. What it's really about, is that the Right wants to be unclear in this area. Moreover, they find it unpleasant to make tough and necessary choices. I hope, however, that both the Right Party and the Advance Party will now settle down on the decision taken in the Stortinget this evening. Not least, I hope so in view of the employees of the Defence Department and the local population of the municipalities concerned. They deserve clear answers and no more uncertainty in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1496	I registered with the representative Myrlis that defence policy should not be a district policy. Nevertheless, there are representatives of the government parties who are going to the pulpit here today and are excited about bases that are just staying in their home country. On the other hand, the opposition has argued for military reasons as to why we want a solution different from that of the government in a few important areas. I have also noted that I am interested that there are now quite different signals from the government parties regarding what is going to happen in Bodø after the closure of the fighter aircraft base. The right supports the government parties in that Ørland becomes the main base for fighter aircraft; there has never been any doubt about it. So we want an investigation of a solution in Bodø for the forward base, because we think the question is not well enough solved. The representative of the centre party Olov Grøtting said it would be sorted out and cleaned up in Bodø. But it's not added to a single calculation by the government. The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen says that it also needs to be cleaned up after the hunting aircraft company in Bodø. The representative Eirik Sivertsen from the Workers' Party says the same thing. But when we asked about this explicitly in connection with the treatment, the Ministry of Defence answered the following, and I quote: ‘The Ministry of Defence has, according to normal practice, assumed that the properties of the defence were sold without the completion of demolition and any cleaning prior to any sale. It is the expected market price the defence can obtain from a sale, for example, to a private property developer, without demolition and clean-up, which has been taken into account. [[property sold as ‘as is’]] What is now said in the Chamber differs considerably from that of the Ministry of Defence to that of the Committee. That just proves our point; that's one of the core assumptions that we believe proves that the Department of Defense's calculations do not hold true. The Ministry of Defence has provided a basis for the sale of ‘as ice’, while what is now said is that money should be spent on cleaning up. There is also an attitude Right parts, but then the whole assumption for the government's arrangement changes. Therefore, I am pleased to note that representatives of all three government parties see that our solution to the question of Bodø once again is actually the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1510	The right new twist is that they're going to have forward base for fighter planes in Bodø. But if Bodø is as good a proposal as the representatives of the Right have now argued for a long time, why can they not propose it? It may not be necessary to investigate it further. This is a game that doesn't dress a serious conservative party. It's serious, because it gives false hopes to Bodø and Bodø's people that there may be a chance that there will still be fighters in Bodø. People in Bodø don't need any more uncertainty now. Now they have to look forward and towards further developing Bodø as the Defence Operations Capital in Norway – without fighter aircraft. Let's man up and say there won't be fighters in Bodø in the future, because that's what's real. So Ivar Kristiansen said earlier today that the Right will not shut down Bodø Main Air Station. Yes, it will be right. One might get out of it by saying that one is voting against the proposal and the wording today. But we don't need a main flight station in Bodø to house a forward operating base with QRA. Today, in Bodø, there are two fighter quadrons with a lot of business. It's a main airfield, but there's no need for a main airfield for a forward base. This is double communication. Otherwise, the term ‘principal aerodrome’ shall be phased out, so in any case there will be no main flight station in Bodø in the future – not in the benefit and not in the name. The problem with the Right is not a lack of answers, lack of investigations and lack of calculations. The problem with the Right is that they do not like the answer they get when conducting investigations and calculations. Bodø is in any case much more expensive than Evenes. One can equal it or not. It's like Ivar Kristiansen was going to log into the online bank to check his balance, and he might not like what's going on. But it does not really help to log in several times. The figure that comes out is the same, no matter how many times he tries – maybe except if some good friends transferred money. Maybe that's what he's hoping for. It's usually hard to admit it, but there's no point in answering that question anymore. We have also received an answer: This is not going to be a matter of priority, either for the Right Party or for the Advance Party if there is a change of government – God forbid – after next year's election. We've been given good clarification. This is not a matter of priority for the Right Party or the Advance Party. It would have been honest and honest today to say that Bodø's time as a fighter aircraft base is over. Everyone understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1528	The centre party is satisfied with the new long-term defence plan being discussed today. There is a great consensus on the defence policy in this country, and I am glad that all the parties on the Stortinget stand behind the overall arrangement in the long term, despite the fact that this time it did not become a broad settlement. But there are great and important choices that all the parties are behind. One of the choices is to buy fighter aircraft. Government parties have chosen to take some action to take this great economic promise and meet the needs of the future, although, of course, the grips are unpopular in many environments. The centre party has chosen to go for a conversion of the base structure. We're betting on one main fighter base, with a forward base with QRA in the north. This leads to closures. There are always difficult and heavy decisions to make, and it's painful for those who are being hit. For us in the Center Party, however, it has been important to be involved in taking action that provides economic sustainability in the Defence future. There has therefore been absolutely necessary grip. The base structure of the Air Force must be determined by what is best for the defence of Norway, not by what is best for individual communities. Of course, as a central party representative, I am very pleased that Ørland is the main base for fighter aircraft, precisely because it is the best thing for the Defense and for Norway. I believe that is the best option, both in terms of development opportunities and that there are no other actors that can limit airspace activity. This is an alternative I naturally have worked actively for. Ørland is undoubtedly the best solution in terms of the long-term development of the fighting aircraft. Fortunately, there is a great deal of agreement in this room. The effort that will take place in the years to come around the Ørland airstation will have a major impact on the industry in the whole of Trøndelag, and on Ørland in particular. It will provide the region with jobs and citizens. That's why it's a joyous day for the Fosen region and for the whole of Trøndelag. That being said, I have great sympathy for the Bodø environment, which has had a fighter base for 60 years. Of course, it's a heavy day for them. What is positive for both Bodø and Ørland is that there is now a clarification. Uncertainty in recent years has put social developments in these places on hold. For the Central Party, it has always been important to ensure a defence with a presence throughout the country and with the means to practice. I believe that the government has put forward a proposal that ensures a strong territorial defence and presence through the Home Office. It helps to strengthen defence capabilities in the long term. For us, it has been important to reverse the big cut in Homeland Protection that was proposed by the head of defense. We've always been clear that we want to maintain both the number of districts and the number of soldiers in Homeland. The long-term plan ensures that the Home Protection system will continue to be present throughout the country, something we in the Center Party are very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1547	Today, we are discussing both the timing of the long-term plan – where mainly the acquisition of new fighter aircraft for the Air Force – and the timing of the purchase of new armoured vehicles for the Army. The acquisition of combat light is probably the largest single investment ever in the public sector, and the new armoured vehicles are the most important and largest single investment ever made in the Army. This will be a very important contribution to the modernisation of the defence system, which will enable them to solve their main tasks for a long time in the future. The Christian People's Party supports both of these investment projects. When it comes to it, any organization depends on competent and good employees to succeed. It's the same in the defense. Therefore, the work on recruitment, training and management structures is essential. In the eyes of the Christian People's Party, we now need a comprehensive personnel and competence reform in Defence. It is necessary to facilitate better interaction between military and civil parts of society. Increased opportunities for career exchange, with civil merit education and training, will contribute to this. In addition, we need a comprehensive review of the command system. The Christian People's Party requests a rapid decision on the principle of the introduction of a command structure for generalists and specialists, respectively, in line with NATO standards. Over several decades, we have had a problem with an imbalance between the structure of defence and its economy. Both the governments of Bondevik and Stoltenberg have worked systematically to create a better balance. The situation has probably gradually improved somewhat. However, government parties may harmonise reality when they claim that defence is now ‘fully financed and in balance’. Both from the Swedish Defence Research Institute and from the National Audit Office, we get signals indicating that this is not the case. We should be realistic. The work of achieving a proper balance between structure and economy will probably have to take us into the next long-term. This is important for the Defense, because without enough money for training and operation, we will not be able to make full use of the large material assets that we have made in the Maritime Defense, and in the future we will be doing in the Air Force and the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1560	I am concerned with Nordic cooperation, and for many years I have been given the opportunity to join the Nordic Council. I am pleased that there is a good development also in the case of Nordic defence cooperation. Interestingly, this initiative was taken by the Norwegian and Swedish Defence Manager as early as 2007, and was subsequently followed up by the Finnish Defence Manager. This was both forward-looking and innovative. This was followed up by the so-called Stoltenberg report, which former government councillor Thorvald Stoltenberg drafted on behalf of the five Nordic defence ministers in 2009 – a good and important document. Since then, Nordic defence cooperation has become increasingly important, and interest is high. By cooperating, small countries can more easily afford to maintain a timely and modern defence. Practical cooperation on exercises and acquisitions has already been established. Defence cooperation in the Nordic region is not just of a practical and concrete nature. This has also been given a political side. Last year, the Nordic countries agreed on a Nordic declaration of solidarity in which they committed themselves to being united in crises. It is also very interesting to note that Thorvald Stoltenberg’s proposal for Nordic air surveillance over Iceland is now being discussed in Sweden and Finland. Norway and Denmark are already participating in air surveillance over Iceland under the auspices of NATO. Should there be an agreement on a Nordic air surveillance over Iceland, I think we can see the beginning of an even closer Nordic defence cooperation. Let me make it clear that such Nordic cooperation will not replace NATO cooperation for us. But Nordic cooperation can complement NATO cooperation, and through Nordic defence cooperation we can build bridges between Nordic NATO countries and Nordic countries outside NATO. In this way, we can lay the foundation for completely new defence structures. This I think will serve the whole Nordic region in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1577	Smoke the strategic location of military airfields for large parts of the country, it is not possible to consider away from it. Rygge Military Airport is where it is located. And not enough with that, but important and necessary stockpiles and military infrastructure are located at the Rygge military airport because of its location. That is why it has been important for the Christian People's Party both locally, in the state and centrally to say that Smoking Military Airport should be continued, and we have said that we should keep the Inspector General of Air Force with the Staff. The Air Operator Inspectorate and the Air Defence Education Inspectorate should be maintained until a final decision on the flight base structure and airspace control is taken. For me, it is also essential to stress the importance of maintaining the competences of the Air Force in the military environment of Rygge. I am surprised at what level of debate the representative Svein Roald Hansen is putting on in the change of lines with the representative Hans Olav Syversen – and also in his own contribution so far here in this matter. When it comes to accusing the opposition of our electoral campaign plans being more important than the defence's long-term plans, I have to agree with the representative Syversen: it's going to be a 'too cheap' point. What is alarming in the post of the representative Svein Roald Hansen is two areas. The representative, Hansen, reveals that there has not been an overall eastern fold bench that has intended that the Rygge military airport should pass. The restructuring that the majority of the population will adopt today – which means the relocation and depopulation of Rygge – is thus referred to by the representative Hansen as a proper restructuring for the future. And not enough with that: today's structure is described as an out-of-date structure. I think this is alarming, and I also understand a little more why the Rygge military airstation was not proposed to be maintained in the matter that came from the government. I also understand that the rapporteur, Inger-Lise Skartlien, from the Labour Party in Rygge thinks this is a little difficult. She says to NRK Østfold today that she hopes for a regime change in the Workers' Party. The cartel does not need to hope for a regime change in the Workers' Party, she must hope for a new election result.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1590	It is good that there is considerable agreement on many important points in the Committee's position, because it is essential that the Storting should agree on fundamental issues, such as security and alliance policy and the defence structure. The right is willing to take difficult decisions to make changes in Defence, but then there must also be the right transitions – shifts that bring real and measurable operational gains or economic savings. In addition, they must be based on sound analyses and verifiable economic premises. The right is therefore deeply concerned about the economic sustainability of today’s and future Norwegian defences, both in terms of current funding and to an even greater extent in terms of the acquisition and operation of fighter aircraft. I note that the Minister of Defence today makes it clear that the normal situation for advanced base in the north involves a QRA on three aircraft – regardless of where it is located. That was an interesting clarification from the Minister of Defence. It is the defence's need that must be founded. It is the military professional advice that must be decisive. I would like to stress that this is what is now at the root of the decision of the Stortinge today by Ørland as the battle base of the future. That's a good solution. It is the best solution for Defence and Norway. This is a brand day, and it's not at least one defence day. There is a necessary decision The Stortinget is making today, namely to gather around one base. It's important. It's important because you get a predictable structure for the Air Force. It is also important to stress that the decision taken today is based on the best professional advice. The decision on Ørland as a fighter base shall be well ahead in time. In Trøndelag we are happy today. As the host region of the new base, we are going to go far and do our utmost to show that the Stortinget has made the right decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1605	At first, I feel that I owe the representative Korsberg answers that I did not get in the previous round. It was a direct challenge that I want to take. It was a question of whether I had said through statements in the evening post that I would break the contract about the NH90, and had not talked to the Storting about it in advance. I feel that my statements were very clear – that I did not have the intention to break the contract, and that I wanted to buy the NH90, which is a great helicopter. The problem is that the supplier has not kept the contract because they have not delivered under contract. It is in my opinion to turn the matter a little bit on my head. On the other hand, another representative from the same party, the representative Ellingen, was immediately out there and said we should break the contract, about now. I am standing in the middle of these two positions in the Progress Party – that you should not touch anything that is once concluded, or that you have to act immediately. I have said on behalf of Stortinget – who has asked me as Minister of Defence to implement a concluded agreement – that there are limits to Norwegian patience. But it's a bit from saying limits of patience to breaking a contract. So I promise that the Stortinget will be informed in good time before such a change of contract or breach of contract will occur. I believe in the NH90, I'm just a little tired of waiting for the NH90. So some words about Bodø to the representative Eriksen Soreide. I am becoming more and more convinced that the representative Myrli has a point when he says that there is still evidence that 291 questions have been asked, and that there should be evidence that the matter is too ill-informed. Then there is at least one possible explanation, methodologically speaking, that the person who receives the answer does not like the answer and therefore asks again in the hope of getting a different answer. So it's not like that – I repeat: not like that – that we've said that critical mass, the buildings, in Bodø are to be sold as ice. On the other hand, we have stated quite thoroughly in many ways that the normal method of calculating the institution Change Property is such that in order to compare costs, a calculation is made as if one were to sell ‘as ice’. And then you see in the process if that's what you're doing. If, for example: is that the defense is going to sell a building, you don't want to start by tearing it down, plowing up the ground and growing the forest if someone wants to buy that building. You want to figure out first if someone wants the building. If nobody wants it, you do something else. Then you get a standardized expression of the cost. It is ‘as ice’. To say it carefully, I know we've informed you about that. Then the question is whether you wanted to hear the answer. And then I finally want to say that I'll come back later to a little bit about the economy, which more people will talk about. But it is striking that the parties that each time they speak express concern for the economy add costs. Then I'm worried about the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1620	I have a comment on the Council of State's final comment: From the next fall, this will hopefully be a problem that the Council of State can raise from the sideline – just so it's said. Otherwise, let me do something that I didn't have time to do, that's to thank everyone who's been on from their community. The rapporteur in Evenes has made an impressive effort to fight – and not only once, but he has been knocked to the ground more than once and got up again and done a formidable job! Although the Progress Party today is going to go in for a solution that Evenes is not part of, I want to give him credit for the job he has done. Similarly, the political leadership in Bodø has done an excellent job of challenging and pointing out opportunities, and they have also pointed out consequences, in a way that I believe is constructive and not negative. The same has been done from Inner Troms, where you are about to find a solution for the hospital and the challenges there. And not least, the employees of Rygge have done a formidable job, despite the fact that they have to fight against the parties that have a majority in this hall, and that are going to shut down the Rygge Air Station today. The same is true of mulberry. One of the good things about politics is the commitment in Norway, that we have employees and local politicians who stand upright and take hold of and challenge us with the so-called political truths. That's good, and it's an important thing to take with them – and not least to give them honor! Then I would also like to say that the Progress Party wants to have a strong focus on Home Protection further. I didn't get the time to say it instead, so I'll take it now. They're a heavy premiscuous supplier. I expect that when the July 22 Commission report comes, it will point out a lot of things. Here, it is important to see the relationship between what the defence does and what the justice sector is going to do. Two words about Bodø: The main concern of the Progress Party is the loss of competence. I record that you've assumed that you're bringing the employees, but I don't see that it's obvious that this will happen, because the signals from many employees are that they won't. I said – that day the government put forward the proposition – that this is a good day for Bjørn Kjos, because the availability of people with great competence is increasing, and the commuting costs are going right in his pocket. Since the Council of State has been so concerned with operational capability, this was one of my concerns and cross-thinking — at least that day. I share with the representative of the Central Party the concern that the defence will take a great deal of the costs of the redundant within its own framework. It would have been interesting to hear: what is ‘necessary’ in aviation today to be cut? In all company life, at the end of the debate, it would have been fun to get a recording about it. Let me also at the end just say that for the Progress Party this has not been a struggle between Ørland and Bodø. Ørland has qualities that Norwegian air defence needs. They are unique in many things – just as we think Bodø is. So, of course, you could say that we're weird and old-fashioned, but here it's about taking care of the skills. So for the vote: we're going to support decision I, II, V, VI, VII and VIII of the vote. We will not support the minority proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Right, nor will the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1637	Conversion, restructuring and change are necessary and will still be necessary. But a number of historical examples show that the defence has spent too much resources on relocation, liquidation and closures that have been poorly explored and poorly anchored, and that have had to be reversed in a short time. Now to stop, to get enlightened, to have a good decision-making basis is not about decision-making, but it's about reason, and I think the consequences of wrong choices will just get bigger. Let me take some examples of poor decision-making and moving processes earlier: The decision to drop Madla in 2008, which the opposition strongly warned against, is now, fortunately, transformed. FOH: Bodø–Kolsås and then moved to Jåttå almost ten years ago, before the government in 2008 was moved to Retan. It cost over half a billion dollars. The general inspectors entered as part of integrated strategic management in 2006 — were adopted again two years later. The 335-quadron on tactical transport aircraft was adopted from Gardermoen to Rygge in 2004 – was converted in 2008. The 717-squaredron was moved to Rygge from Gardermoen in 1995 because the operation was incompatible with the main civil aerodrome – is now back. This list could have been made considerably longer. Today, there is an overall opposition that believes that the decision-making basis on a number of important points is too poor, and we ask that it be investigated. The government responds that Stortinget has a good enough decision-making basis. Yes, then it is incomprehensible to me that an overall opposition means something else, and that must be a strong signal to send to the government. Right supports the proposal on the main base for fighter aircraft on Ørland. In addition, the right will have a forward base further north, and the right believes it will be in Bodø. It will help to maintain a highly competent aeronautical environment, and it will be the best solution in a holistic perspective. Furthermore, the government’s assumptions to leave Bodø free of charge — or perhaps with profit — are not valid. Today’s debate also shows that there seems to be a government on migration, by taking more of the costs of ‘cleaning’. I would like to say to the Council of State that selling ‘a ice’ can be beneficial, but you can assume, Council of State, that you don’t want any buyer interested in environmental pollutants in the ground – rather opportunities for explosives in the ground. It means that there has to be a clean-up in relation to the state of the day. So it is incomprehensible to me that one still has doubts that a Bodø solution should have all the costs of moving the runway over to the Defense. I am convinced that here there are opportunities to see this from a social perspective, which will lead to completely different costs for defence than the government presents to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1668	The President will draw attention to the fact that all speech is still to be addressed to the President and not necessarily to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1671	I have listened with interest to what the representative Svein Roald Hansen from the Workers' Party says about my home country. He is now desperately trying to save the stumps of his own credibility on the issue of Rygge Airstation, and it is best done in the way that the Workers' Party is characterised by – to lower the position of others rather than to take responsibility for his own policies. The right is willing to make changes in the defence, and we have proved that for a long time, but then it must be the right changes – based on solid analyses and verifiable economic and professional premises. The government's proposal for Back deletes both of these assumptions. As I said in my previous post: To put the whole East and South countries bare for air defence, I have only one comment, which still applies, and it is: That they dare! At first I thought I'd come back to what's going to happen to the area and values of the military part of the Back. It is important to receive an answer after the examination of the long-term defence plan. Even an alternative use does not bring the government up with it. It reminds me of the ostrich that has its head in the sand, and that acts both irrationally and unprovedly. Thus, the government has not been able to respond to how preparedness is to be organised and brought together in Norway on a general basis. The obvious thing would be to see whether the co-location of those to provide Norway with preparedness is in favour of those to be helped. On questions relating to the development and co-location of emergency capacities and facilities with the police as well as their emergency troops and base for police helicopters, the Minister of Defence replied that they had discussed the matter together, but only on a case involving the armed capabilities of the Defence Force in support of civil society. Otherwise to assess the co-location of all or part of the preparedness of the defence and police — no, it has not been assessed. I almost said, hit it! For ordinary people with general thoughts, that's what we want answers to if you look at an afteruse. Such a mission by the government should have been a matter of course and not something to fight for. This can only at best be referred to as emergency and, in the worst case, as an inability to address clearly greater needs, as a pool of preparedness capacities and skills in preparedness. It may also know the representatives of the Workers' Party, but they still choose to close their eyes and collect votes for the closure of Smoking in the storeroom today. It is a loss for the Defense, but it is also a loss for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1686	It is probably too much to expect to be quoted correctly by the Workers' Party Chief Defence Officer, Sverre Myrli, who started quite freshly the day saying that the undersigned has called the staff of the Air Force Inspector General for Paper figures. So I didn't do that. The background to my statement was that I thought that what had to be above the number taken from the proposition was more than 150 jobs. must be considered as cardboard characters. I think Sverre Myrli can take a phone to his partners in Inner Troms and ask about their experience of moving the army staff, how much of the army staff has come into place, etc. It is used by the Council of State and by the Chief Spokesman of the Workers' Party a kind of rule technique about lack of knowledge. The opposition has asked 291 questions. The position has asked zero questions. The position has not cared about affecting a line, a comma, in relation to having all decisions presented, all decisions 14 days before Stortinget gets the matter in place. As far as the government parties are concerned, it's most like a mare – that the Right will keep what is possible to keep in Bodø, and not sag down the most viable of the Defence's own 60-year-old trees and remove the knowledge placed in Bodø – it's an attempt to dispel saying that we don't like the answers we get to the questions. Governments have refused to answer questions. He is systematically unclear on these issues, including today, where the matter is to be settled. The Council of State chooses to disregard Avinor's contribution to financing the relocation of airstrips. The Council of State chooses to disregard the Municipality of Bodø municipal guarantee, the county RDA contribution, and the revenue from the sale of 2000 covered land. Then there are other spokesmen from the government parties who leave the impression that you should talk to the municipality in Bodø, you should talk to a museum director, etc. Can the Council of State today help to clarify what the government wants to leave at its exit from Bodø? State Council Barth Eide will take the initiative to ensure that cost assessments are carried out, take over the real figures, make sure that you leave the site – if it is finished – in a tidy way, that you take into account environmental clean-up, etc.? These are numbers that are going to amount to billions. It's booked by Barth Eide at NOK 0. You'd better take 1.3 billion with you. on the revenue side to finance... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1698	I'm only going to focus on the Home Protection in my post, because I believe that this long-term plan will give Home Protection the recognition that Home Protection deserves. The Home Office has been making major changes over several years and has become a maritime part of the defence force. The myth of the soldier with the Ludvig bag of which people went on the smile ribbon is gone. In a relatively short period of time, the number of districts for home protection has been reduced from 18 to 11, and the strength has been reduced from 83 000 to 45 000. In the Central Party, we have asked ourselves the following questions in this process: Where do the people live? Where is the important infrastructure? Where does value creation take place? What other response capacities are available? We have assessed important points of communication, Norway's topography, nature's lukewarmness and vulnerability in society. We have received the following response: presence throughout the country, territorial and operational responsibility, civil-military cooperation, reaction capability and stamina, anchoring the Defence, managing the duty of protection. It's the military mission that's supposed to be the design of Homeland Protection. Nevertheless, Home Affairs also has a role to play in supporting civil society and the overall preparedness of society. In this context, home protection must have the capacity to interact with civil services and other societal resources in order to support and protect them. There is a need for enhanced cooperation and better coordination between police, civil protection and defence. This is particularly important for Home Affairs. Action by Home Affairs will be crucial in crises that threaten social security. This is particularly important for those parts of the country that have less available response resources than are available in more central areas. The year 2011 with terrorist attacks, floods, races and storms clearly shows a wide range of crises that can quickly occur. The need for a tangible and decentralised protection of homes has been very evident. I'm glad the Heimeverkole will still be at Dombås. The school is a weapons school that delivers the goods and that will be central to the further development of Home Affairs and other agencies responsible for social security. It is good policy for the country to maintain a well-functioning centre of competence in a district municipality. Home protection is now recommended to be organised within a framework of a total of 45000 people in the field of land, sea and air protection, of which 3,000 are in the forces of effort and 42 000 in the area structure. This is an adapted structure to meet the operational needs imposed, and we now have a home guard with 15 000 more soldiers and four districts more than the Defence Manager suggested. Home Security has a nationwide responsibility for primary duties in the field of watchkeeping and security of key military and civil objects and shall be available at short notice. Home protection has over several years had a low level of exercise and training, which has helped to reduce the operational capacity of Home Security. A significant increase in the exercise and training activity of the Home Protection System is therefore absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1717	I have to add a few more comments to Bodø, since representatives from the Right spend most of the time on it, and there are important questions. First of all, I would like to say to both the representatives of Skovholt Gitmark and Kristiansen that it is of course not that we should not clean up after contamination and after ammunition. Of course you have to do it, just like you always do when you leave a place. Then you do not know in advance how much it costs. It's this Shift Property and the Defense operates on a large scale when we wind up. We wind up hundreds of places, and you've done it before. So it's been like this is an accounting that means that if you, for example, leaving a fire field in the woods and returning to the forest, no one is necessarily buying it. Then it's a loss project – you do it anyway. If you sell an office in the center of a city, you make money. These things can go up over time. So 'as ice' is a technical calculation, not a statement of how we want this to be done. We don't know what to dispose of either. I don't think anyone in this room thinks there shouldn't be an airport in Bodø. Then there's a question about the transfer to Avinor, and what to actually keep, and what to clean up. A good part is to be cleaned up, and a good part can be used for other things. Something else that's important: several have referred to it as if we've earned 1.3 billion. kr anywhere in the budget. We don't. Ivar Kristiansen has said here and elsewhere that we use them in Orland. No, we don't use them anywhere, because we don't know if we get them. There is an assumption of a possible future income. It could be $0 or $1.3 billion. kr or more. When we get it, it will be added to the budget through, for example, the budget. a revised national budget, as it tends to be when we get an income we do not know in advance. There are a lot of things said here – and I would like to refer again to the long-term plan, the supporting material and many good questions, which have also received good answers, which describe what I have just said. Then I will also be allowed to say to Injerd Schou – I realized that the representative Schou perceived that I did not answer her question: the base for the rescue helicopter on Back is being continued, the base for the Bell 412 helicopter is being continued on Back, HV-01 is being continued on Back, and the rescue helicopters are being given an increased operational preparedness because they will now also be able to obtain enforcement assistance for the police. It's a whole new decision. That's very good. So the services on Back that actually provide operational capability consist, with the exception of even the flight station operations. You can't say that you're laying the East open, because there are other airports, and you can use civil airports. Then we have the air station at Gardermoen, which was the last time I checked, also in the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1730	Minister of Defence Barth Eide said in one of his previous speeches that everyone from the opposition who takes the floor and is concerned about costs is adding additional costs. Well, he might have noticed that the Right also adds increased income and more money, among other things. by not making any of the moves proposed by the Ministry. Maintaining the 2nd Battalion, maintaining the CRC on Sørreisa, maintaining all Orion flights and maintaining a large area structure in the Home Guard are all proposals proposed by the Chief of Defense, but which the Government proposes to maintain. There is a bit of a funny situation in the debate when all changes proposed by the government parties, which depart from the professional military council, are reasonable and well-founded, while proposals proposed by the opposition, which depart from the defence chief's proposal, are only district policy or are poorly justified. It's a rhetoric and an argument that doesn't hold. There is no fundamental difference when the opposition parties have made judgements and demonstrated a judgement that goes in a different direction from that of the government parties. Representatives of government parties are concerned with the conduct of district policy by opposition parties. We argue professionally and economically for the proposals we are promoting, or for those parts of the long-term plan we do not want to vote for. So when the representative from SV Snorre Serigstad Valen goes to the pulpit and says that a further argument for Ørland is that it's fine there, it's an argument to use in a defence debate, while arguments about operational ability, about professionalism and economics are arguments that are being ruined as a district policy. It doesn't hold water. Similarly, the representative, Sverre Myrli, regrets that proposals for amendments have been made and that, in the next round, when the opposition parties have made their proposals, the amendments made have been taken into account. It's called accountability. It would be totally irresponsible to assume that all decisions in the Grand Duchy, whether they were in defence or other matters, would be dismantled as soon as there was a new government, no matter what colour that government had. The point is that you apply the changes that are made. I think it is a sign of a responsible attitude and nothing else than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1739	I hear some in this debate and in the media claim that the Eastfold Workers' Party has not done enough or has influence within the party and government in this matter. I would like to stress that the Eastfold Workers' Party has fought to keep the Back Air Station, because we believe it is right. Through meetings and recordings throughout the process, we have influenced the matter. We also voted against the proposal for the closure of the Labour Party Group here on the Stortinget, but we have had to give up on the majority, as representatives from Bodø in Nordland, Mågerø in Vestfold and others have had to – as is the case between Ingerd Schou on matters that are being dealt with in the Right Group. We take responsibility for this and are open to it. What we're responding to is that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are now making it look like they're saving Rygge Air Station, when they're actually just postponing the decision and saying that they're going to re-open the case if they win the 2013 election. So the right and Christian People's Party is pushing the decisions in front of the Air Force base on Rygge and in Bodø. In concrete terms, the Right and Christian People's Party call for 'a much more thorough analysis of the possibilities, consequences and costs of the proposals relating to Rygge'. So to point this out, the Ingerd Schou is calling to go down on the opponent. The reason they're using is that the proposals aren't well enough figured out. The technique is to ask 300 questions to the Ministry of Defence – and not be satisfied with the answers you get. It is not the basis for decision that is too poor. It has been through a thorough external quality assurance – no, this is probably an example of the Right decision refusal one year before the election. We see the same thing when it comes to Bodø. Here the Right concrete government is asking for a solution with forward-looking base in Bodø. The main costs of this are the same as if the main base were to be established there, namely the movement of the runway at a cost of 3 billion. kr. The right is trying to be a friend with every single place at the same time, but they reveal when the main figure of the party, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, says that it is not appropriate to re-apply the decisions after the election, even if the Right would be in government. According to the setting, the progress team will maintain Bodø as a fighter aircraft base. Here, Vice President Per Sandberg cat escaped from the bag when he said to the NRK that the Group of Advancers has made a bad decision in this matter, and that this view is only about them. It is therefore not appropriate to review the long-term defence plan in the next period. This is the question of whether the views of the opposition parties are now on the market, which is more intended for the election campaign than for the long-term plan. That's right, as we say, right doesn't take a position on Rygge. They're postponing the decision, but they're not going to reschedule the next period, according to their national figures. The Labour Party contributes with openness, not games and tactics in this case, as it is claimed – it does Right. Many, including us, believed that the Air Force should keep Back as one of its bases for use in given situations and crises. So that didn't mean the head of defense. The government has chosen to follow the advice of the Council. But it is important to note that there will still be military activity on the Back in the future, among other things. with HV-01 and the helicopter base.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1760	I was watching the Minister of Defense's slightly clever defense to put down Mågerø, when he indicated that the head of defence had, of course, proposed this. We have seen in the proposition, and also heard from the representative Eriksen Soreide, all the proposals from the head of defense that the Labour Party government did not want to follow up. It may not be possible that some proposals by the head of defence are more important to follow up than others. But it shows that the argument for adding Mågerø is extremely weak. But then the Secretary of Defense got hurt to say something that I noticed, which I actually wrote down, because I think he guaranteed that it wasn't that we were going to be in radar blind here in the East. It's an important information for Stortinget. For reality today is not like that. If you put down Mågerø today, the risk of our becoming lying radar blind is extremely large. Because it's not like that, even though we share radar images with others in NATO, that just you have a radar, it's okay. The signals from the radar must be sent to a CRC, if not useless. The whole point of my post when it was Mågerø, was that the lines from these radars to the CRC on Mågerø are too bad. This is not something I'm making up. It said so, for example. to read in Tønsbergs Blad 16 May that you lost the air image over South Norway. In the first two weeks of May, there were three serious incidents as a result of the loss of control over the aerial view of South Norway, due to, among other things, for weak lines. In the three events, we lost contact with the military radar, but we had Mage Island there to take over. It was a technical failure of the military surveillance aircraft operated by NATO. Mågerø had to take over the entire operation. There was a fire evacuation at the Defense Operational Headquarters. Maggerø had to take over to ensure the situation. That means that we are in a situation that is very serious in terms of controlling the air image over South Norway. In this situation, the Minister of Defense says that we should not be in radar blind. I am very pleased that the Minister of Defence – when he gives information to the Stortinget – must be truthful. This means that we have to follow closely – after Mågerø is closed – whether it is at any time that South Norway stays in radar-blind. Because if we do, the Minister of Defense has a serious problem. I expect that in his next post – because I have registered that he has re-signed – he will give a thorough account of what he thinks he needs to do to ensure that in the East, in the West and in parts of Central Norway there are no ports in radar-blind areas when Mågerø is laid down – on the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1771	The interpretation of words and writing can lead to so many things, but Line Henriette Hemdal's interpretation of my post requires a comment. It is true that we from Østfold – also within the government coalition – have worked to ensure that the Air Force would continue to retain the Rygge Air Station in its possession, and thus continue to operate the airport, as Irene Johansen explained. So it didn't work out that way. But now we don't have to express ourselves as if the Back is being laid down. There shall be a compact Air Force Base, where the emergency helicopters shall be, together with rescue helicopters, and where HV shall remain. HV was proposed to be moved by the Chief of Defense. It wasn't like that. It's actually also important, not just for Back, but for the preparedness in Eastfold, also up against civil events. The head of defence, through the Minister of Defence, has then blackened that he is not concerned about the possibility of using airstrips on Back in situations where necessary, for example. like when Obama was here and took the peace prize, and F-16 was standing on the back. It's still going to happen. It can be ensured by agreement with Rygge civil airport, which I suppose will be the one taking over. I can't imagine a civil driver of Rygge saying no to receive income because if it's a fighter plane landing instead of a passenger plane. In addition, there is an aerodrome on the other side of the fjord, and there is an aerodrome north of Eastfold. So there are aerodromes that can also be used by the Defense in situations where it has to be necessary. The representative, Ingerd Schou, points to Rygge's strategic position. Yeah, Rygge has a strategic location, it also has Torp and Gardermoen. When the head of defense is not concerned about leaving the airport operations at Rygge to civilians, it is demanding for politicians to be. What's unclear is whether there's going to be a fight about something, or what's going to be a fight about. Line Henriette Hemdal said that the Air Force Inspector-General and the inspectors should remain on the Back if they so wish, until a final decision on the fighter aircraft base is taken. So we'll make that decision later this evening – we will. So Ingerd Schou said that keeping hands on the operation of the airport at Rygge is not a postponement from the Right. But ine M. Eriksen Soreide said in the pulpit here that it is not natural to take this up again and propose changes. I also think that the other representatives from the Right and the government parties should deal with that, because that is the uncertainty that you are trying to further play.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1784	The chairperson of the Committee introduced the issue of whether it is fine somewhere is an argument that there could be a base there. Then I will declare where I stand: I think it's very nice in Ørland, I think it's very nice in Bodø, and I think it's very nice in Evenes. So this has a neutral effect on my view of where we're going to have a fighter base. But what I'm not neutral about is that I think it's very nice that we find a solution. I think it is very good that the Stortinget is able to make a decision, so that we can tell the Inspector General of the Air Force and the Chief of Defense and all those who work with them, where we are going to place these fighter planes that we are now about to decide to buy, but no one has talked much about. I am very pleased with those who have said that it is good, because it is very good – it is the biggest decision – but then we also need to know where to stand, and there is a need for clarification at some point, and it is good that we get. Then Korsberg was short in Mågerø again. I don't want to devalue in any way that it's always bad and difficult to lose a professional environment. Those who work there do a very good job, and they do a good job every day. But then it's not like you just leave things as they are; you close a station, and then you do nothing else. So in my previous post about this, I mentioned investment in much more modern networks – redundant networks – that go through both air, fibre networks and other and increased cooperation with the rest of the world – that is the answer. That's why we don't stay in radar blind due to the closure of Mågerø. Of course, you have to have good radars, but there's something different than where they stand. So I'd say there's been a good deal of discussion about economics. If any of my colleagues in NATO had been here and heard, they would have wondered what happened. So Norway is the country in Europe that spends the most money per citizen on defence. We're the number. 2 in NATO and No 7 in the world. We're going to increase that budget. Ine M. Eriksen Soreide pointed out that in the last period, the Right proposed raising the budget by 2.65 billion. kr. Right is a solid defense party, and that's good. They have always provided a cost page that has often been even higher, but at least they have suggested an increase. Then I expect the representative, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, to be pleased that we are now increasing by 4.335 billion. kr during this period, which is the increase of the times – at least in modern times – just to both acquire fighter aircraft and to increase the operating framework, so that each of the proposals we have made at the level of the defence manager is actually funded from the same calculation model as any government has always used for technical adjustment of costs from one year to another, and for which there is broad professional agreement. I thank you for a good debate on a very important topic and will end by stressing that it is good to be Minister of Defence in a country where there is so much consensus. It is also reasonable in a democracy for us to discuss most of the things we disagree with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1797	I would also like to thank you for a good and timely fresh debate. That's the way it should be in these contexts. When the Minister of Defense emphasises how much money you spend on defence per capita, it's only partly an interesting size. The interesting amount is what operational capacity we get for the money we spend, and whether we're able to finance and operate the capacities we actually have. It is precisely in the perspective that the opposition believes it has both been, and for the future will also be, missing from the arrangement that the government has put up with. When it comes to the question of smoking, I will draw attention to the fact that there are many things the government has not been able to give answers to the Storting. Firstly, no decision has been taken on what will happen to the fuel and ammunition storage. Secondly, Section 13-9 of the Aviation Act, which opens up the possibility of acquiring an aerodrome, was added in 2004 and has never been used. No one knows what any compensation costs will be if you have to do just that. So these are questions that have not yet been answered. Many people have pointed it out to the issue of Homeland Protection. After all, the representative Sverre Myrli was fresh at his head start and said that we are increasing the operational capacity in relation to the Chief of Defense's advice. The question is how in all the world you do it when you add up to a less sharp end than the head of defense has put up. And the representative of Svein Roald Hansen followed up freshly saying that defense chiefs all over the world must then envy this chief of defense who actually gets more than he's asked for. Well, the head of defense is just suggesting a necessary conversion of Homeland with a clearer sharp end. He has received nothing more than what he has asked for, he has got something quite different than what he has asked for, and there is a significant difference between the two statements. Finally, the question of it with the Inspector-General. We propose to wait with the move of the Inspector-General until an overall structure has been put in place. This is a measure that, when making this change, costs 350 million. kr in year. We want to spend this money on increased operational capabilities. It is symptomatic when the representative Myrli says that there is no more operational ability if GIL sits on Rygge or in Bodø. And then the question is, why would you choose to make that change right now? We are a responsible party, as others have pointed out. We need to assess the situation of each measure if there is a government change in 2013. We're concerned with predictability. We're busy calming down. We are responsible for the decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1812	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1815	If we add the good side, we've recently been made clear that the Right might add the forward base in Bodø – but not more than that either. To clarify what I said in my previous post, there is no need for a large main aviation station. The advanced base becomes a mini-base, based on today's activity, and there are far fewer jobs than that of the Air Force Inspector General and the Air Force's top management, so the Right does not want to go to Bodø. I repeat what I said: there will be no fighters in Bodø, no matter what happens next year at the election. We just got that clarified by the committee chairman. What has been adopted shall not be dismantled, she said. It was a useful clarification – it's just a shame that not everyone from the opposition can say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1822	The representative Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1826	I'm afraid the president has to tolerate some volume in a debate that's as important and engaging as this. The council said from the pulpit that it is always difficult and bad to lose employees, the professional environment, etc. Yes, but we don't know how bad and difficult it is, because the government has refused to carry out a socio-economic analysis of what it will actually mean. Even when representatives from the Workers' Party have asked for it, the Ministry of Defence refuses to enter that discussion. So we really don't know how bad that would be. It can therefore impose additional heavy costs on the defence – I see the Minister of Defence so far nodding here. It might have been an idea to know in advance. Then it's a new thing that I'm going to get the Secretary of Defense's perfectly clear guarantee. He was up here and said that we should not just lay down Mågerø, we should also make sure that we have a line capacity that is modern and good enough to make sure we don't stay in radar blind. It only has to be interpreted in one way, that Mågerø cannot be laid down until the lines are in place, to ensure that it does not lie in radar-blind in the foreseeable future. I would like the Minister of Defense to come up and tell me if that is what he means, or if he means something completely different. Because that's how you have to interpret that statement – one can't put down Mågerø until the lines are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1835	The anundsen takes up again the relationship around Mågerø. I just have to say that both questions are really questions that can be answered with how this is always done. Making a change where a base, a station, a fast or a control and warning station is shut down, always has some consequences, which you obviously take into account and are aware of. It will have some costs in the near future, and then it will provide an operating savings in the longer term. My starting point is that two heads of defence, one after the other, and the Inspector General of the Air Force, recommend concentrating the CRC activities in one place. Then they recommend setting up something else – which we do not have today, and which we have not had in many years – that we call NAOC, the National Air Operations Centre, and that it be added to Retan, because of the proximity to the Defence Operational Headquarters, which is safe and well located on Retan. They also state that it gives a redundancy, because it will lead to a technical functionality that, in a crisis situation, can take over what you will do on a daily basis at the tactical level of South travel. This is information that we've checked many, many times. On top of this is that this is one of the areas of ‘Smart Defence’, for closer cooperation across NATO. It is said that there are many countries that still have more. Well, wait and see, it's not as long as there's more concentrations in air control and warning. I think for some countries on the continent it might be that you don't sit with anyone yourself, but you share them with others. The point is to follow the sky, not where you sit and do it from. I have therefore stressed that, irrespective of this, there is already a substantial investment in the information infrastructure of the Defence Agency, among other things. in fibre networks. Of course, we're going to make sure that this very important function, which has to be exercised every day and every night, is always up in the system we finally deliver. These are important questions, but it is also very important that they have been carefully considered. This is not a political idea, it is something we take from a recommendation we have received from the top military leaders, who believe that this is right and rational to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1848	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1867	The Ombudsman’s defence title shall contribute to ensuring the general human rights of defence personnel and to dealing with matters of a fundamental nature or of general interest. This, including the Ombudsman, is chosen by the Stortinget. At the end of each year, this report is sent to the Stortinget about its activities. Copy of this is sent to the Ministry of Defence. In this regard, let me make some fundamental considerations – or at least a fundamental assessment. A number of factors are identified in each annual report, but there appears to be no system for monitoring them. For example, for several consecutive years, the Ombudsman has pointed out that it is problematic that it takes so long to clarify the security of the person admitted to the initial service. The lack of green service is also a repetition. The Committee has commented on several of these issues, and we have also asked the Ministry to follow up. The question is why there is no system of notification from the denominator to the department or, for that matter, to the Stortinget. Of course you could ask if it is such that the department does not read the Committee's comments and references. The Ombudsman has little intention of pointing out faults or shortcomings year after year without mentioning in the report year after year what has happened to those cases when they come up with a new notification, that someone else is apprehensive, or that the ministry is given the opportunity to comment or explain the situation in the annual report itself, as we are used to the Riksrevision doing. It is probably the last thing to do, that the report is sent to the ministry once the Ombudsman has prepared it and the ministry is given a reply – as is also done in the National Audit Office’s documents. There is at least something missing here, and I have already taken the initiative to get back to this in the committee. Otherwise, in this article, let me mention a few themes a unanimous committee addresses. One is about commuting: we have just discussed the long-term plan of defence, and in the process towards the landfill and during the treatment we have had – i.e. the debate that has taken place over the past few hours – both municipalities and representatives have fought intensively to maintain or obtain defence jobs. However, according to the survey, fewer and fewer of the Defence Officers and other employees live at the place of work. They live and have family elsewhere in the country. It points out that questions can be asked about whether it is at all possible to organise so widely that a majority of families are involved in moving to new places of work. Husbands and cohabitants have their own job and/or career, the children will be at school in the community, etc. Modern society with today's family structures is making this become different than it was just too few decades ago. The Committee takes note of the fact that ‘the commuting defence’ has come to be. But this is also an increasing challenge for the defence units' host municipalities. It is a problem that Norway is statistically located in the lower half of both Europe and NATO in terms of the proportion of women in defence. The proportion of women on the ground is said to be at rest, despite several structural measures. The Committee considers that several women in defence are an important part of ensuring the necessary, timely and relevant competence for defence. I will also refer to my interpellation on this issue on 16 April of this year and the input of the Council of State into that debate. In this context, it addresses what was also seen in the inter-pelling debate on 16 April, namely the culture of Defence — the internal codex — which may be one of the reasons for considerable pervasiveness among women in Defence. It's the way new women come in, but there are also women going out, and so you stand on the ground resting. I think it is important that the young girls who go over the threshold and say yes to the first-time service should not struggle with the culture, attitudes and bad behavior of parts of the male command. I also think it is important that those who enter the Defence Department not to have been through first-time service – i.e. command training – and choose to serve in the Defence and become an officer, also feel that this is a place where it is possible, and that the culture, attitudes and behaviour of the Defense make it actually a pleasant job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1886	The temperature of this debate is a bit lower than in the previous debate, where we discussed the defence's long-term message, but that does not mean that this matter is irrelevant, although I see that the entire defence management disappeared as soon as we had finished the previous case. They should not have done that, they should be here and attend this discussion related to the annual report of the Ombudsman’s defence department. As the rapporteur explained, the vote is unanimous, and I agree mainly with what the rapporteur said in his statement. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for a good piece of work. However, when I take the floor, it is to link some comments to one of the issues raised by the Ombudsman for the defence in his annual report, on which I would like to challenge the Minister of Defence in this debate. In the summer of 2010, the tragedy occurred that four Norwegian soldiers were killed by a heavy road bomb when the Iveco vehicle they were in hit during a military operation in northern Afghanistan. As a result of that event, it was decided that a 24 Dingo 2 vehicle should be quickly provided, nine of which had to be prepared as a route-clearing vehicle. The acquisition of Dingo 2 as a patrol vehicle has been completed and Dingo 2 is used as it is in Afghanistan. On the other hand, as far as I understand, it is not finally decided that the defence should use Dingo 2 as a route-clearing vehicle, even if there is a precarious need for such vehicles in Afghanistan, and that two years have passed since this tragic incident made the need for these route-clearing vehicles apparent. As far as I can see, today's route clearance is done by applying almost manually along the way with metal detectors and outbound personnel. Although they carry protective equipment, it is not possible for the equipment to respond to the adverse effects of a heavy road bomb. The miners who carry out this work are also exposed to hostile protection, both because they go outside, and because they are seen as so-called high-level targets. This form of route clearance is first of all very time consuming, and it also labors very hard both physically and mentally on the staff. Route-clearing vehicle is a special vehicle equipped to find or detonate mines over which they run. The vehicle is designed to withstand any explosion. If my version of this is correct, it seems incomprehensible that Norway is taking so long to acquire or develop suitable road clearance vehicles. This is therefore mentioned in the Ombudsman’s communication. I want to challenge the Council of State to comment on the status and progress plan for the acquisition and use of road clearing vehicles in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1903	Let me first make a comment on the question of female participation and once again confirm, which was also discussed during the last interview, that it is very important that we are now able to deal effectively with this. The fact, which is quite correctly described by the representative Nybakk, that we have a relatively low proportion of women in Defence in Norway is, of course, something we are very dissatisfied with. But it must also be seen in the light that we are a country with a duty of protection and that we have a duty of protection only for men. It is, as I said earlier in this Chamber, a radical sex quota for men. It makes us get a special selection of one sex, which you don't have the same way if you have a duty to protect both sexes, or you don't have a duty to protect at all. Now I think about everyone here agrees that we should have a duty of protection. That's one of the reasons I've put on the agenda that we need the discussion if not the duty of protection is to be equal for both sexes, just as the session now equals for both sexes. The word of the Basic Law is: «Every citizen of the State is generally equally obliged, for a certain time, to protect his country of origin». It is not specified that only men are involved, but in 1814 men were meant. Today, 200 years have passed, and we might have a broader understanding of this. When it comes to route clearance, I share Anundsen's concern. Here we have placed great emphasis on establishing both good competence and capacity through, among other things. Dingo. They're delivered. To what extent they are used in Afghanistan, I have to get back to, but to this: now we're going to get out of the area where these have a very important function, i.e. in Faryab. However, in the context of the return journey, such capacity will also be needed. I can only say that we have high pressure, including on mine clearance capacities, which is within the decision to be made later today on major acquisitions to the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1917	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1931	The case concerns the proposal of representatives of two party representatives of the State Audit Board for a separate examination of the acquisition process and the basis for the election of Joint Striker, JSF, F-35. In order to come straight to the conclusion: all parties in the Committee, except the Advance Party, do not consider it appropriate that the Riksaudition should now be required to launch specific studies on the acquisition process. The rationale is that the Riksrevision does not have the practice of carrying out such ex-ante audits; the issue of the size of the plenary session may require the Riksrevision to initiate specific investigations. I expect that the Advance Party will justify its position. However, there is agreement in the Committee that there have been overruns in some defence acquisitions and defence projects, such as the former. The Gulf/LOS project, and not least in the acquisition of frigates, which had been carefully assessed. It is also a unanimous committee which emphasises the importance of, and assumes that the government has control over, the cost development of the acquisition of new fighter aircraft. It is also a unanimous committee which assumes that the Storting is kept informed of any changes to the fighter aircraft project, and also indicates that the government is up to it. In a separate remark from the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left, reference is made to NOU 2007:15, A strengthened defence, the so-called Siri Bjerke Committee, which points out that there has been a recurring problem in the development of the Defence, namely the lack of consistency between economic assumptions and actual economic developments during a period of planning. Therefore, representatives from the SV, the Centre Party and the Left say that they share the underlying concerns of the proposers, namely the danger of such exceedances repeating themselves as Norway is going to make a military purchase that, in total, represents the largest real estate purchase ever. Government parties also say that one records that the government has taken the signals and concerns about exceedances seriously. The submitted long-term plan, which has now been examined, shows that the government will extend the acquisition of fighter aircraft over several years than previously planned and that the acquisition will be split into annual acquisitions to be approved individually by the Stortinge in the financial year in question, rather than making one large order. The government parties have also chosen to include Barth Eide's last assurances of costs and progress in the acquisition of the new fighter aircraft in Stortinget on 30 May. It is the last insurance that was provided before the setting was issued. Finally, I would like to say that all parties, except the Advance Party, will stress that the F-35 project has been selected as Norway's new fighter aircraft, and therefore do not want to contribute to delays and uncertainties regarding the fighter aircraft project. However, this majority underlines that the further process in the acquisition of fighter aircraft must be more transparent, ensuring a broad and cross-political anchoring of the largest and most important defence acquisition of the next decade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1954	This matter has taken its time in the committee, and it shows in many ways that there are some tensions in this complex that should not be rejected so easily. I am in a way a little disappointed that no other party supports asking the Riksaudition to go through this acquisition process around what is Norway's largest public procurement ever. The background is, as the rapporteur explained to the extent, that it is not right to impose this work on the Riksrevision because it does not have the practice of carrying out ex ante audits. I think it must be due to some sort of misunderstanding of what this proposal is really about. The acquisition process is actually complete – we even make decisions today. We have chosen the supplier at a much earlier date after a so-called tender procedure, and today's decision also confirms that. However, the question is whether competition until that decision was effective and whether or not the State has complied with the law to be followed in relation to such acquisitions. The proposal is not – and I would like to stress this – a rematch on flight selection, it is not an attempt to reduce the further process or a contribution to delay the further process. It is simply an honest and honest desire to ask the National Audit Office to examine whether everything went right during the procurement process until the choice of aeroplane type. It is, in the opinion of the Progress Party, a quite common and natural part of the activities of the National Audit Office. The Eurofighter consortium withdrew from the whole process because they considered that competition was not real. The Swedish authorities have been particularly critical in their considerations of the Norwegian procurement process. It's written a very critical book with a number of claims about what might look like manipulation. It really makes me ask the reason why Storting will not know any more. When the decision on the selection of the aeroplane type was taken, Stortinget got a proposition of less than 15 pages. That was the decision-making basis of the Storting. If one is to be careful with so little information prior to this type of acquisition, it must be a prerequisite that one can have confidence in the preceding process. The main question is not whether there will be overruns or not. The main question is whether the executive has conducted effective competition in line with the legislation between the suppliers concerned, or whether the design, basis and process have been such that it was actually predicted who would become Norway’s next supplier of fighter aircraft. If this is the last case, one should be honest about it from the start and also change the legislation so that one could choose the aeroplane type from political or strategic considerations and not carry out a tendering process. But I have no suspicion beyond the statements that have come from other teams that there may be irregularities in this procurement process. After all, it would be very nice for all parties, the whole Biggest and our democracy to find out whether that was the case or not – and that would rather not be the case. But it is alarming that an overwhelming majority of the Grand Duchy, consisting of all parties, apart from the Progress Party, will not even open up such an objective review of this great and very important process. This is not a unique proposal either. Studies have been carried out on the acquisition processes and acquisition of new fighter aircraft in other countries, including: in Denmark and Canada – and normally we are all very concerned about the proper use of taxpayers’ money. That's why we in the Progress Party think it's a little strange that we're not as concerned about the nation's largest public procurement over time. With regard to the formalities relating to the proposal, there is no doubt that the Storting should be asked by the National Audit Office to carry out such an investigation. However, when this does not happen – because I guess we do not get a majority in favour of this proposal all of a sudden today, even if we should have it – it does not mean that it is a hindrance that the Riksrevision on its own initiative believes that it may be important to look at the procurement process related to the nation's largest public procurement. Normally, the Riksaudition has engaged a lot in the state's procurement management, and there's no reason to dampen that commitment when we talk about such a large purchase as is the case here. With that, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1973	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1976	This is therefore a proposal from the Progress Party to examine the basis for the choice of new fighter aircraft and to ask the Riksrevision to conduct a specific examination of the acquisition process. I find some of the points of view that the chairman of the committee has now made quite remarkable. He's questioning the entire procurement process, and he's also questioning the choice of aircraft type. It's also spectacular because it's a unanimous big deal that's going to decide tonight that Norway is going to buy 52 new fighter aircraft of type F-35, or Joint Strike Fighter. There has been unanimity on this throughout almost the whole process, which started early in the last decade, i.e. around 2001–2002. It is, as it also appeared earlier today, the greatest single thing in the long-term plan that has been under discussion, and new fighter aircraft – we have heard that the reason for it before today – is one of the most central structural elements in the future defence. The adjusted JSF acquisition plan balances the consideration of ensuring continuous national combat aviation with the balancing of the budgetary burden in the acquisition years. There was no disagreement about this earlier today. So there was a long process ahead of the choice of new fighter planes, and that's probably the main reason why we don't go in for the Riksaudition to do a preliminary audit. First, this was a choice between Joint Striker and Eurofighter, and then they got JAS Gripen and French Rafale on the track, and in the final interview, it was between Joint Striker, as we know, and JAS Gripen. It was important to ensure real competition. A good job was done to get it done. In spring 2007, the Ministry of Defence established a separate investigation project to develop the decision base for the selection of new fighter aircraft. In the evaluation process, external expertise was also drawn. The JSF pointed out to be the best aircraft for Norway, primarily because of the characteristics of the aircraft in terms of surveillance and presence capacity in the northern regions, and over our other territory. We have jurisdiction over a sea area that is seven times larger than our territory. Then it's important to be present and keep an eye on what's going on. Norway is likely to have carried out one of the best total analyses of the fighter flight purchased. The process is additionally, as I said, monitored and evaluated by external and independent analytical expertise. The reason I spend so much time on this is our main reason why we should not add this matter to the National Audit Office for a preliminary audit. In the long-term plan and in Prop. 73 S for 2011–2012, it is noted that the acquisition of fighting aircraft will capture significant parts of the economic space in the State budget in the coming years. I have noticed that the government is concerned that the further process is being set up in such a way that it does not unduly lock the economic space in the state budget in the years to come. For the fighter aircraft acquisition will be demanding. The government says in its long-term plan that it aims at a close and regular involvement of the Stortinget, and let me stress specifically: the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee also assumes that the Stortinget is kept informed of any changes to the project. The majority of the Committee is also concerned that the further process must be more transparent in order to ensure a broad and cross-political anchoring of the large investment. Let me also add to what the rapporteur also said – that the Riksrevision does not have practice in carrying out ex ante audits, that there is also an argument against the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e1991	I will not continue this morning's debate, because this is not a matter of aircraft acquisitions. It has been discussed by Stortinget and will soon decide unanimously. This is a matter of whether we should go to the unusual step of prior revision of the acquisition process by the Riksrevision, or – if the proposers do not accept it – the Riksrevision will review the competition which led to the award of the tender to one company. I have to say – I have been in Stortinget for 31 years now and followed the National Audit Office with interest for all years, and they have never done a similar job. Never! So it's not right to say that it's a natural part of the Riksrevision's work. You could, for example, think that the Riksaudition should check whether all competition between tenderers was real in the large acquisition of public data equipment that has gone completely wrong – we have many examples of that, under changing governments, and not only in the public but also in the private sector, but it is the public we are talking about now – for example. at Oslo University Hospital, which has gone to such a divorce. But this has not been done by the Riksrevision, and that is good reason, because the Riksrevision often has to go back and assess whether the Stortinges decisions have been followed up and, if so, how it has happened. It does, of course, allow the Riksrevision to come into some kind of instability – I say some form – because if the Riksrevision in 10 or 15 years is to have an administrative audit of the Defense, they may come into the situation that they are going to check a conclusion they themselves have drawn. It is little natural for a revision to do it this way, and I am also not aware that similar is done in other countries. I am aware that it is in itself up to the Storting to ask the National Audit Office for anything, but fortunately, we have the practice in Stortinget – through the changing majority for many periods – that the Storting rarely asks the Riksrevision to do jobs. The National Audit Office is also very clear that they are quite free to decide. They normally follow such a request if it comes, but the Riksrevision in Norway is independent, and it is a virtue it is very important for control purposes to take care of. I have serious problems realizing that the matter is at all set up for treatment after the Stortingen has unanimously agreed this morning and will vote later on over the fighter flight purchase. With the distrust expressed to the process leading up to the decision, it is a little surprising that a supposedly unanimous magnification vote for tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2007	The purchase of new fighter aircraft for the Norwegian defence is a huge investment. The latest estimates by the Ministry of Defence may suggest that the final price tag will be on the top of 60 billion. kr. The final sum will be affected by the exchange rates, increased development costs, delays in the fighter aircraft programme and any changes in the number of flight orders from other buyers. We have to take into account the uncertainty factors on which the calculations are based. The Christian People's Party has consistently been concerned with quality assurance of both the government's choice of fighter aircraft supplier, cost estimates of the fighter aircraft purchase itself and the costs of operating both fighter aircraft bases and the aircraft themselves. In addition, the repurchase issue arises. I think everyone knows a great responsibility for this giant purchase to meet expectations. The consequences are great, and that is healthy with debate. Nevertheless, it is important to follow common rules of the game. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has been dealt with in various milestones, and the price estimates have repeatedly been the subject. We have noted that the Minister of Defence, on behalf of the government, has said that he is aware of the price estimate. He has even clarified that security goes as far as you can be sure of anything in this world. It is clear that with such a wording, the Council of State has provided the price estimate with a truth content of recognition theoretical dimensions. I am hardly mistaken when I speculate that this statement from the Council of State will be brought up again when we know in a few years the final price tag on the fighter aircraft purchase. What we know less surely is who at that time will find the most tempting to remember what the Council of State said. It is an honest matter to have critical statements against the decision-making basis in a case like this. We should all recognise the actual uncertainty surrounding aspects of the fighter aircraft project – not least the final price tag. At the same time, however, we must follow the usual procedure. Therefore, all of the Biggest parties, apart from the Advance Party, are aware that we do not think it is right that the Riksaudition should be required to launch specific studies on the acquisition process. The reason is, in short, that the Riksrevision does not have as a practice to do such ex ante audits. We all know that there have been cost exceedances and heavy delays in large investment projects in the past, including in the Defence. That's why I'm glad that a total increase now underlines the importance of the government controlling the cost development of the upcoming fighter aircraft acquisition. Of course, the Storing is assumed to be kept continuously informed of any changes to the project. Whatever the position in this debate, I think we can all agree on one thing, and that is that this is guaranteed not to be the last time the Stortinge treats this aircraft acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2020	I think it was a lot of wise words from the last speaker, and I think he is quite right in his prediction that this is not the last time we deal with this matter. It is probably not suggested that it should be the last time – it will be many more times. What made me take the floor was that it did not seem that more people would take the floor, and then I had to clarify a few things that the representative Nybakk said in his post. She thought it was ‘synthetic’ argument from my side. It may be, but the eye-catching information, or these eye-catching claims, has been in the media for years. There has been a strong pressure on the Norwegian decision-making process towards the choice of a new aeroplane type. So I underlined, and I think actually I did it twice in my post, that this wasn't a rematch on the choice of aircraft type. This will be demonstrated by the fact that we will – as you know – vote in favour of the setting at that point today. So it's not a rematch on the choice of aircraft type. But it is important in such a situation that we find ourselves in, with the greatest public procurement ever, that we are sure that these processes work well. We always tend to be occupied with it in this room. Although Foss has never experienced anything similar in his 31 years at Stortinget – which we still hear – it does not necessarily mean that it is unwise or wrong to implement it. Nor have we ever carried out such a large public procurement, so perhaps some extraordinary measures are necessary to ensure that things have been right – that we do not make the same mistakes again, if anything has been wrong. Then I fundamentally disagree with the claim of the representative Foss that this could result in the Riksrevision somehow becoming incapacitated, if they now went in and revised this. If one draws that parallel too far, it will mean that in areas where the Riksaudition carries out management controls or administrative audits and makes recommendations to the administration on improvements, they will be incapacitated to carry out a new administrative audit in the same area later. It can't be, it seems a little strange conclusion. So the progress party has no mistrust about this process at all, but we want an objective review of this process. So I have to admit that I think this proposal is very little dramatic, much less dramatic than individual attempts to present it as.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2033	Let me start by saying that as a member of the government I have no intention of thinking anything about what the Stortinget asks the Riksrevision to revise. I took the word to comment on something else. There was a claim earlier today, and it also says as a comment in the statement, that it is common with large exceedances in the defense. The truth is – and I can really say that for the first time in this way – that it was common, it is no longer common. After we introduced external quality assurance in 2000 for all major projects, so-called Category 1 projects, which have been adopted here in Stortinget – that means that those projects will be here, there are 40 pieces – there have been no price increases on any of them – not on any of them! In five of them there has been an extension of the framework following an independent decision in the Storting, where capacity is added, for example. when you put a new missile on a frigate that was not originally intended. Three of them have narrowed the frame. But it hasn't been a single price excess. I think that is a pretty good sign that the external quality assurance regime was actually a good idea. We also see that the price estimates are getting more precise – they are, of course, getting higher, because they take into account a completely different type of uncertainty. But that also means that the Big Thing is more real to what's actually going to happen. I can present the phase for the last ten years, and it is wrong that it is common for large exceedances to occur – this has not happened in more than ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2042	I refer to the posts of the representatives Nybakk and Foss who cover my views on this matter. I will take the floor at the end of this debate because the representative, Anundsen, does not understand that his argument is characterised as ‘supervisory’. Then it's probably necessary to explain why we think it's alarming. One relates to the principles of the National Audit Office's work and its relationship with the Grand Duchy, and its right of initiative in all cases. But there's a logical flaw in what Anundsen says, because he argues that this is not a rematch on realities. If we believe him, I don't think there's any reason why the Progress Party should think that we're going to review and go through the process that has led to this. I don't understand, I don't understand the logic of that thinking. I have followed the debate earlier today, and none of the representatives of the Progress Party – no one else, but no one from the Progress Party – have addressed this issue that Mr Anundsen is now presenting in the Chamber, namely the need to re-examine the process itself. If there was any logic in that, you had to postpone the decision on the purchase, if there was any sense in implementing such a process. It's a very significant defect that needs to be clarified. So, of course, there's also reason to ask the question, what's the idea behind it all? Is it again to make an attack on the government in order to suspect that something has happened here that shouldn't have happened? But when that's not what Anundsen says – and we get to believe him – then the logic is clear: it's the way that this proposal should be rejected by the Progress Party in this matter, because there is no logic in it in relation to what is going to happen in the Stortinget later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2056	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2070	In this case, I am delighted to present and present a unanimous opinion from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The National Audit Office’s Annual Report sets out the National Audit Board’s 2011 framework conditions, management system and target achievement. The Committee has taken note of, and supports, the fact that the National Audit Office’s vision is to contribute effectively to the control of the Grand Duchy and to promote good governance. It is in good harmony with what I see as the role of the National Audit Office in Norwegian policy and administration. In a democratic society, control of administration is absolutely necessary. The National Audit Office is the largest external control body in the United Kingdom, and it is crucial and important for the Storting that there is a continuous review of the management's ability and willingness to follow up the decisions of the Storing, not least because, as elected representatives, we are to uphold the rights and demands of every citizen to know whether the resources are being used effectively and in line with political decisions. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee believes that the annual report shows that the National Audit Office is working hard and focused on this ambitious objective of effective control and better management. It is very worth noting, when the National Audit Office has been exposed in these days, I would say, for public criticism, that those who are actually the subject of the investigations, namely the administration, are satisfied with the work carried out by the National Audit Office. The management experience that they have a good dialogue with the National Audit Office, and in the user survey carried out each year by the National Audit Office, 75 pst. of the administration that they feel that the Riksrevision has sufficient competence in the implementation of the tasks. In addition, it is good to note that the criticism raised by the administration in the last year’s report that the Riksrevision does not always present its findings in a balanced and comprehensive manner, during this year’s user survey, is completely absent. For our part, we are of the opinion that all the 13 administrative audit reports submitted to the Control and Constitutional Committee in 2011 are both revised and relevant. It is also worth mentioning that the Riksrevision has now changed the structure of its Document 3 reports as a result of a peer review, which recommended that positive findings should also be more prominent and that the Riksrevision should be clearer in its recommendations and in its areas of improvement. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision has a unique position towards the administration. In the Annual Document 1, which is the Riksaudition report on annual audit and control, grant audit was a priority area for the audit of accounts in 2010. The Committee stated that the central government had challenges and that there were errors in grant management. The Committee considers that the Riksrevision has had and has a very central role in this area: to ensure that errors are detected and corrected, and to ask the Riksrevision to continue to pay attention to grant management, even though we note that the departments themselves have contributed to the practice of grant management in line with the wishes of the Stortingen and their own guidelines. It is essential that the Riksrevision should be included in the reforms, development processes and plans undertaken at all times in the Norwegian administration. The Annual Report provides us with a good overview of a broad range of activities that are important for the Storting to receive information about in order to fulfil its responsibilities as a constitutional body. The Committee believes that it is important that the Riksrevision addresses issues that go across the ministry. A cross-sectoral perspective is both sensible and necessary, not least because policy areas are interrelated and because they affect each other. Secondly, it is important that the eyes of the National Audit Office are focused on the major reforms and efforts undertaken in key areas such as health and care, municipal service production and social security and preparedness, to name a few. These are areas that concern us all and have a major impact on the individual's living conditions and the possibility of life development. Finally, the Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision focuses its attention on these areas in the years to come. It is important that the objectives of the Storing are achieved — and that is a prerequisite for a good society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2091	The National Audit Office’s notification of the activity is an important summary of the Riksaudition’s work and plans and a kind of milestone in the relationship between accumulation and government. We are given a kind of loophole on the evolution of the Riksrevision and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is given the opportunity to make important contributions to how they experience the Riksrevision, its work and its relationship with the Storting. In general, I agree with the very good and thorough review of the matter by the rapporteur, and that is a unanimous position. Nevertheless, when I find reason to take the floor, it is because it was earlier this week, which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur so far, that a note from Civita was published, entitled ‘Riksrevisionen – Vaktbikje unbanded?’. The evening post has referred to the report and led a number of people to comment negatively on the work of the National Audit Office and the National Audit Office. I think it is exciting that we experience that there are discussions about the Riksrevision's work and working methodology. I also do not have the habit of using reports from Civita as the basis for my own political speeches in this Chamber, but this report therefore deals with what is the foundation, really, for this debate, with a slightly different view – I would say. The Civita note concludes, inter alia: that the Riksaudition has professionally failed competence, that the Riksaudition criticises the administration with a failing mandate, that the criteria for the administrative audit are unclear, and that others should actually carry out administrative control, while the Riksaudition should concentrate only on what they consider to be its core task, namely accounting control. In addition, some consideration should be given to sending management reports to the professional committees, since the Riksrevision reports rarely deal with matters relevant to significant constitutional issues, as they state in the report. I'll start with the last one first. These are serious charges against the Riksrevision. But I also think it shows some sort of misunderstanding about the relationship between the Riksrevision and the Stortinget. A model with control responsibilities of the technical committees has been tried in Stortinget in the past, with the result that one soon found that it was more or less pointless, because the control work was a kind of left-handed work. This happens, of course, because the main focus of the technical committees will always be and should be to find solutions for the future. It is also made clear in the note that the main task of the Control and Constitutional Committee is to deal with constitutional issues. It's an important problem, but it's completely wrong. Most of our time goes to control and not to questions of constitutional importance – I would have almost said. We monitor both on the basis of the National Audit Office's reports and on the basis of self-initiated control tasks. In fact, we have – and I think we should be proud of that – one of the most modern control committees in the world, and it's an ongoing move from other countries to see what they can learn, and it's not that small! Having one committee specialising in control activities has clearly strengthened parliamentary control of administration, in line with the Constitutional Law's intention and provisions, and the change in the administrative and accountability structure of society. It is therefore, in my opinion, a fallacy if one believes that there is better control of the management by entrusting control responsibilities to the professional committees. So the report has a couple of good points as to the importance of being clear on what a basis is such as the Storting's assumptions in implementing management reports. This is also a topic that has arisen in many discussions between the Control and Constitutional Committee and the National Audit Office, and I have to say that I already perceive that there are improvements and changes in this respect. Then a claim was made that the professional competence of the National Audit Office is failing. It's serious! I have to say I'm not sure how thorough preliminary studies have been done before that claim was made by Civitas. In 2011, the Riksrevision carried out the investigation referred to by the rapporteur and the feedback from the establishments audited showed that at least 75 pst. held that the Riksrevision has sufficient competence to carry out its tasks. In addition, it is clear that Stortinget is satisfied with the technical content of the reports. It also made it clear to the President of the case that he is now speaking, and that is actually even more important than the fact that those who are subject to control are satisfied. The Civita note also claims that the Riksrevision carries out its work and comes up with its criticism on the basis of a failing mandate, i.e. that there is a misunderstanding between what the Riksrevision actually does and what this House thinks it should do. Of course, it would be a crucial issue in the setting if the Stortinget were of that opinion, but the Stortinget has not had that opinion in any of the settings on the Riksrevision that I have seen. And it's after all up to the Storting to give the Riksrevision signals if one believes one is moving within or outside borders as the Storting has determined. It has not been the case so far, with one possible exception. It is the administrative audit of the Bank of Norway. In addition, as far as I have seen, the Stortinget has not pointed out that the Riksrevision is moving in a direction that the Stortinget believes is wrong. With regard to the importance of the parliamentary control, which we have now talked about, and which is also the subject of the Civita report, I became somewhat discouraged when I read in the note that they called for an assessment to move Parliamentary administrative control completely out of the field of work of the National Audit Office and beyond to what they considered to be an independent body, such as an independent body. Directorate for Financial Management. Civita is therefore proposing to lift parliamentary administrative control from the agency of Storting to the government's directorate. I'm afraid there's a pretty strong indication that it's hard to take these recordings seriously. Of course, the basis for parliamentary control cannot be moved from a large-scale body to the government's directorate. Then there is no longer parliamentary control – to say the least. It is also unfurnished — at least — when Civita claims that the Riksaudition is not subject to control, because, in addition to the dialogue held by the Stortinget through the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, with opinions and assessments related to the Riksaudition framework, the external audit of the Riksaudition is carried out by one of the largest audit firms in the country, in addition to carrying out peer reviews carried out at regular intervals. And this year's annual report presents a peer review and the results of a peer review in 2011. Some people probably think it's strange, but I thought it was good to use this Civita note as the basis for the report on the Riksrevision's report on the business, because it really affects the same situation, and because I think it is important that we tolerate criticism of the Supervisory Authority of the Stortingen, but the criticism should therefore be promoted on a factual and thorough basis. In fact, it is quite clear from my post that I believe the level of precision in the Civita report is somewhat lower than what we are used to from the Riksrevision. Therefore, it is easier to base the Riksrevision report and notification of the activity in 2011 on the allegations made by Civita. Basically, our national audit works, summarizingly, well, as the rapporteur described in a good way. As in all other areas, of course, it is potential for improvement, including: may be more efficient and may provide several management audit reports to the Storting based on the extent of the Riksaudition. It is important that the Riksrevision is even more up-to-date. At the moment, they have done quite well, because today the Riksrevision presented a report on the reindeer management, and later today we are going to deal with the reindeer management agreement in Stortinget. Well, that's pretty neat. That's what we should have even more of, even though I really think it's a coincidence that it ended up like this. In addition, there are some ideas about the criticism on the part of Civita that affect the Riksrevision, which is reproduced by several in the Evening Post, and which can be taken into account in the discussion on improving the Riksrevision. In particular, however, feedback from peer review is important and necessary to follow up. I know that the Riks revision does that and has already done it on a number of points, and that they will continue to do it in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2127	I chose in my first post not to spend a lot of time on the Civita report, but I now say that I agree with what the representative Anundsen has said, and the comment he has made on this report here from the pulpit. When I took the word again now, it was because it's an aspect of what I didn't take up in my post, but that I want to say here. I think I can say that is on behalf of the whole committee. Of course, I fully accept that prominent representatives of the administration stand before the public and criticise the National Audit Office. They just have to do that. I note that in the evening post reference there are the outgoing, prominent representatives of the administration that stand out. So they didn't do it while they were in position. What I want to say is that if it is the case that prominent representatives of the administration, ministerial councils or others, who are in the completely responsible positions of our office, believe that the audit we have of the business that is being run – as we here in Stortinget also say today – is as crazy as it appears there, they have a duty to make sure that it comes to us in a proper way. It has not happened in any case during the time I have been here at Stortinget. Now it's not long, but after all, I have a basis for saying that. Then I'll say one more thing that I think is a wish from the entire committee. What I notice in the general «talk» – to use that expression, it's a little untimely expression, but I think everyone understands what I'm saying – about the work of the National Audit Office, is that there's too little willingness to learn. In fact, I believe that we have a good potential to move forward, with a background in the work of the National Audit Office, to learn to do us better. There'll be a lot of resistance and too little learning. These are examples of – as we have seen in the Committee – hearings and other things, where there will be a good interaction between the Committee, the Council of State and the administration, where there will be no negative conclusions, but very positive conclusions, i.e. that we move markers in our work. It probably has to do with communication between the Riksrevision, the administration and the Stortinget, and it's an area where I still think we have a lot to go on, as it's called. We still have a lot to learn, and we still have the opportunity to use the National Audit Office's work to make administration better. The communication between the administration and the National Audit Office must then be good. There must not be an embedded contradiction between the Riksrevision and the administration, because then it becomes a contradiction and not a cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2138	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2152	A joint committee is very pleased with our husband, i.e. The Civil Ombudsman. I want to start by raising a big thank you to him for his work and adding his great efforts. The Committee is also pleased with the annual message that has now become a little bit different and has an extent that we think makes sense. It's this ride we need to follow the action of the Civil Ombudsman. Of course, if there is something special, we will also know. The complaint amount is at 2010 level. Half has been rejected. 163 cases have ended with criticism and a call to the administration to look at them again. Of course, these are some old feelings. The only one is Nav, who also this time gets many complaints, approx. Six hundred. Clearly, there is a great potential for improvement. I see, for example: in Stavanger Aftenblad today that young people with disabilities complain about Nav because they do not get the help they need to get to work. They're doing something to their system, we might get the amount of complaints down. I believe they're doing something about it, and we've also had our own messages connecting to Nav. Other sinners are County and municipal administration. There is also a lot of complaints. The County Council gets more criticism, i.e. 6.5 pst., by the Civilombodsman, while Nav gets no more than 3 pst. 90 pst. However, the complaints do not give rise to any criticism. That's why we have to think about it. In fact, the Norwegian administration works and the system that the Civilombodsman follows and gets complaints, quite well, when we talk about 10 pst of complaints getting criticism. Some challenges in the end. The audience doesn't know enough about the Civil Ombudsman. The civilian ombudsman must be better known. Of course, there are some who know about him, as there are so many who complain, but he should become better acquainted. What we can do on the Storting's side is I'm not sure, but we might have to suggest that the administration should in any case inform about the Civil Ombudsman and the possibility when the municipalities and the county councillors are dealing with matters within a matter area. I think that's a good idea. So it could be that Kristin Halvorsen, the Minister of Knowledge, can also be a person to talk to to to get up the level of knowledge in Norway shut up that we have this unique Civilomebodsman. What's exciting when we look forward and case spokesperson Per-Kristian Foss presents the setting in connection with the Wage Selection is: What will it mean for the Civil Ombudsman when we get human rights into the law? Does this mean that the amount of complaints will increase? It'll be exciting to see in the future what's happening to it in relation to the Civil Ombudsman. Then I think I'll say once again that it's fine that there are now almost 50 added to the Civil Ombudsman's office. I understand from the Civilombodsmann that he is now looking at the organisation, so that the organisation, if possible, can be even more effective. I think that's a good idea. But, as I said, a collective committee is, as I see it, very pleased with the job of the Civilo Ombudsman and asks him to stand on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2171	As the rapporteur explained, the vote is unanimous, and I am mainly in favour of all the points made by the rapporteur. The Civil Ombudsman is a very important institution and does a very important job. He's pretty effective too, I have to say, and he's an important last shot for most people. However, there is one thing I would like to comment on a little more, as the Civil Ombudsman also mentions in his Annual Report. These are the cases where the administration does not follow up the Ombudsman's opinion. It is this, fortunately, that the administration is essentially following the advice and recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman and rectifying matters in line with the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman. However, in recent years it appears that the administration does not bow to the views of the Ombudsman. In his annual report, the Civil Ombudsman has carefully explained some of the specific issues where this has happened, so I will not go into it specifically, but instead say a little in general. Today's arrangement, where the Civil Ombudsman makes an opinion, and not a new decision, which is really common to other Boards of Appeal, has as a fundamental premise that the Civil Ombudsman's opinions are followed and respected by the administration. If the administration does not follow the Ombudsman’s opinions, it may be appropriate to weaken confidence both in the administration and in the entire civil ombudsman system. If the Civil Ombudsman’s opinion is not followed up, the Civil Ombudsman has some kind of last opportunity to recommend complaints to bring an action. Such a recommendation means that the defendant is covered by its own costs, but the scheme has the weakness of not being able to cover the costs incurred by the counterparty in the event of loss of the case, despite the fact that the Civil Ombudsman has recommended the action. It has the consequence that many people are hesitating to sue the State, because the economic risk of the process is still too great. The cases in which the Civil Ombudsman has recommended that the complainant go to trial are often matters of a principle nature. If the trend in the future is such that the administration chooses more to ignore the Civil Ombudsman's opinions, then I and the Advance Party take into account that the Civil Ombudsman is thorough and takes it into account in its future annual reports and, if necessary, makes suggestions on how to implement measures that can correct such developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2200	There is cross-political agreement on the need for secret services. The secret services make a very important contribution to our national preparedness, and it is essential that the services have the necessary room for action to make their work effective. At the same time, sufficient democratic control of the activity of services must be ensured, and until that time, we have the EOS Committee, which is making a formidable effort to investigate whether the secret services operate within the legal framework given in this Chamber. Therefore, I would like to start by saying that the main picture is that our secret services do a very good job, and that there are rarely any irregular relationships that are discovered. The dialogue between services and the EOS Committee appears to be good, and the services take signals from the sample very seriously. They should keep doing that. The EOS Committee shall continuously monitor the secret services in order to ensure that the EOS services do not infringe the individual’s right to privacy and wrong the individual. The Committee is pleased that the EOS Committee has not encountered any particular problems in the exercise of its control activities in 2011 and that the services have consistently demonstrated a high understanding of the control of the sample. It's actually a brand year this year: the EOS Committee has 15th anniversary this year and is the youngest of the Biggest Boards. In the annual report, the sample points to some key developments since its inception in 1996, which may be worth noting. The first is the legal development that has taken place in recent decades. In particular, this applies to the incorporation of human rights, such as: Article 8 of the EMC, which shall ensure the right to privacy and family life. If public authorities are to intervene in this court, they must have a clear and precise legal basis. In line with this, the EOS Committee has been concerned that the intervention of the EOS services in the right to privacy should be clearly enshrined in the law and that the applicable procedures should be followed closely. It's an important and proper focus. However, the monitoring has shown that, from time to time, Norwegian citizens are still subject to intervention without the necessary legal basis. I'll come back to it a little bit later. The second area of development pointed to by the EOS Committee is technological development, which is much faster than legislative development, and that it can create a number of service problems. Technological developments also make it necessary for the EOS Committee to strengthen the technical competence of sample work. This is in agreement with the Committee. The third area of development is that the staffing of the Secretariat is generally strengthened, so that the EOS Committee can now go deeper into some issues and issues and, if necessary, set up specific projects. This is good. In 2011, the sample sent two specific messages to the Stortinget, on the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by the Surveillance Detection Unit Group, SDU, and on POT’s methodology in the Treholt case. The Committee would stress the importance of the fact that the EOS Committee will continue to make use of the possibility of sending specific messages to the Stortinge to ensure that such cases can be dealt with in a timely and political manner here. The Committee has noted that the EOS Committee has launched a separate project that looks into registrations related to a few selected environments on which PST is associated for prevention purposes, and the project will be presented in a separate communication to the Stortinget during 2012. I'll say a little bit concrete about the individual services, and start with the PST. The EOS Committee has not found any basis for criticising PST for the use of coercive agents such as communication control, space listening, secret search, etc., with the exception of one case. In October 2010, it appeared in the media that the PST had conducted hidden television surveillance of a cellar shed that was disposed of by a person suspected of forming a terrorist association with two other persons. The EOS Committee asked for a detailed explanation of this monitoring. Despite the fact that the EOS Committee had received ongoing information on the development of the case from the service, the sample was not made aware of the fact that the cellar booth was watching television. The service was of the opinion that surveillance was on a television surveillance of an object and that the surveillance was not so intrusive that it needed legal support. Following the assessment of the EOS Committee, television surveillance took place in a private area and was of such a nature as to require authorisation. The Committee agrees with the EOS Committee that the cellar shed is a private place and that the nature of the person monitoring was such that the authorisation was necessary. With regard to the lack of information on the methodology used by the EOS Committee, the Committee agrees with the EOS Committee that the nature of the hidden television surveillance should have been such as to provide information to the sample. The Committee assumes that, in the future, the PST will provide the panel with information on the use of all forms of intervention, including those services that may be designated as operational measures. The Committee is pleased that the EOS Committee has not found a basis for criticising the PST for the processing and delivery of data on Norwegian and foreign nationals to foreign cooperating services. Similarly, there is a review of complaints against PST, where none of the closed complaints provided a basis for criticism of the PST in 2011. So I'd like to say a few words about NSM, the National Safety Authority. The Committee is pleased that the inspection of NorCERT by the EOS Committee did not provide a basis for further follow-up by the sample. The inspection of NorCERT showed that the department is well aware of data protection issues. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the process and evaluations in comparable clearance cases vary considerably between the various clearing authorities. The Committee agrees with the EOS Committee that, on the basis of a principle of non-discrimination, this could be unfortunate. The difference may be related to the existence of 45 clearing authorities, where the scope of the case varies from no clearing case to more than 20 000 per year. Nor do clearing authorities have access to an experience archive showing administrative practices in this area. The Committee has asked the Ministry to consider the need for any changes in this area. Under the current legislation, the requested person is not entitled to have access to the minutes of the safety interview before the decision on safety clearance is taken. The Committee agrees with the EOS Committee that such transparency should be exercised in the interests of objectivity and procedural information. As regards the control of FSA by the EOS Committee, the Committee is pleased that the EOS Committee has not found any reason to follow up the FSA clearance procedure. The FSA is the country’s largest clearing authority, with more than 20 000 clearing decisions of a total of 28 000 clearing decisions each year. The Committee has noted that three complaints have been lodged with the EOS Committee against the FSA, all of which have been closed without criticism from the committee. The Committee is also pleased that, in 2011, the EOS Committee did not reveal critical aspects related to the FSA’s exercise of military counter-intelligence. In the case of the E-service, the Committee is satisfied that the prohibition of the collection of information against Norwegian citizens residing in Norwegian territory has been complied with and no other critical factors have been found in the control of the technical gathering activity at the Defence Stations. The Committee has also noted that there was one complaint against the E-service of the EOS Committee, which also addresses the other services, and that the complaint was closed without criticism. The Committee is also pleased that the inspection of the critical infrastructure protection department by the EOS Committee did not provide a basis for further follow-up by the sample. Briefly summarised — and necessary after this far too long article — the annual report of the EOS Committee shows that the secret services relate to the framework that has been drawn up. It's positive, and something we're satisfied with. The Committee's position is unanimous in all areas and is presented for debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2242	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2256	It does not tend to be a big deal when the Stortinge deals with the State Council's protocols, but there are extensive preparatory work on the basis of the work being done by the members of the Committee through the minutes of the Government, during this round for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2011. It is comprehensive, but fortunately, it is rare for us to find anything special to complain about. I'll go through this very quickly. The Committee has noticed that there have been no dissertations in the six months that we have been dealing with, nor have we had any comments on the treatment of referrals in this six-month period. Nor have we had any comments on regulations laid down or repealed by the Council of State in the six months – but we discussed the minutes of the Council of State for the six months before, i.e. the first half of 2011. We had then asked for a review from the Swedish Investigation Department, linked to a regulation of 24 June on the security of information on electronic access to health data in treatment-oriented health records, with the short name of the Health Information Safety Regulation. There, the Investigation Department had some comments that we sent to the Department for an opinion, and we were then unable to deal with that review when we discussed the State Council Protocols for the first half of 2011. For this reason, in the setting this time – as announced by the pulpit of the Stortinge during the previous treatment – some sections have been included. In short, there is a discussion of whether the exemption board in the regulation is so wide that it does not have any particular limitation. As far as this is concerned, the Committee has split into two groups, and I will briefly explain the majority's views and the minority's views, and then the government parties will have to assess whether there is a need to say something more. The starting point is that the majority – the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – have taken note of the opinion of the Stortingen Investigation Section and believe that the Ministry of Health and Welfare should have ensured that the dispensation home was designed in a way that clarified more clearly the conditions for exemption from the regulation. The exemption provision should therefore be less general. The Government Parties – Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – refer to the response of State Council Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen and are pleased that all establishments that have implemented treatment-oriented health records need to have an overview of all the information systems they have implemented and assess safety against the regulatory response. Therefore, they assume that the response of the Council of State is satisfactory. It's basically the only disagreement in the committee in this matter, and it's probably not that big. Finally, a brief comment on the Committee's review of appointments. There are also no comments from the Committee except that once again we find that one department, once again the Ministry of Industry and Trade, does not deliver expanded candidate lists to Stortinget. They must, and I assume that the Minister of Justice, who is here on behalf of the Government, will take that message with him to his colleagues. The other departments have now become very good at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2273	It appears that the whole committee is comfortable with the presentation both in terms of majority and minority views in the unanimous position. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 8
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2289	The case concerns a proposal from four Right-wing Representatives, in which a requested government proposes to introduce a system of cumulation by roll-call elections, at the 2013 Grand elections. There is a consensus in the Committee that this issue needs to be discussed further. The disagreement is about how to proceed. There are different rules in our Nordic neighbouring countries on how voters can influence the composition of the lists of the different parties – that is, who should represent the different parties. There is also an ongoing discussion of how it works in different countries. The introduction of the new electoral law in Norway prior to the municipal elections in 2003 provided an opportunity for voters to have a greater influence on personal choice. When discussing the possible practice of this in relation to the choice of economies of scale, it is a question of establishing a well-functioning electoral system, which must take some cross-cutting considerations into account. The parties have maritimeed thorough nomination processes and that process ensures that the top candidates have the necessary prerequisites and experience to enter into their demanding positions as elected representatives. The individual batches have also been given a clear look at the extent to which they should ensure that this is balanced, so that social and geographical considerations are also taken into account. The background to the proposal is said to be a desire to extend access to influence who represents one at Stortinget, so that voters can enter and individually influence who is to represent one. It's at that point there are different assessments. While the representatives of the Right want to address this and implement it at the 2013 Grand elections, the government parties and the Advance Party are in favour of asking the government to investigate changes to the electoral system so that voters can influence the order of the candidates of the parties, taking into account the ability of the parties to ensure the influence of which candidates are elected. We are asking for such a reform of decision-making to be implemented so that a possible new electoral system can be introduced in the 2017 decision-making process. In this way, the majority is in favour of a process that is so thorough that one can take care of the different considerations, get a fairly broad change of words about it and thus get a good solution to a demanding question
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2308	Let me first say that for the Workers' Party and for the Workers' Party's large-scale group, one is basically very concerned with introducing such a scheme as this proposal indicates. Nevertheless, we support the proposal for an investigation because what the rapporteur said is a very comprehensive and important issue that this proposal addresses. It also has a story that I think is right to mention in this context. The proposal that lies here has threads back to the Election Law Committee, which has taken into account the last revision of our entire electoral law. The Electoral Committee proposed that a system be introduced where the voters could influence the composition of the Stortinget, i.e. at the person level. There were already schemes relating to municipal elections, and also to county elections, but the Stortingen refused to do so when it came to decision-making. When the Electoral Commission came to the conclusion that this should also apply in the event of major elections, it had a reason that extended beyond what is directly related to the question of whether voters should be given this influence, which is the most important. It had a different reason, and that was that before you got the last election order, it was so that now the parties got the right to nominate as they decided. It wasn't like that before. The opposite was precisely the fact that the voters were going to have influence on the lists. There was a balance in the two relationships. That balance sheet doesn't exist there now. This is one of the reasons why the Workers' Party also supports the conclusion of this proposal, namely the need for this to be addressed. Then the government gets to go through these issues again, and then we get back to the matter that the proposal's intention is about, namely the possibility of voters influencing the lists. It's clear that it's an important fundamental question to take a stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2319	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and thorough review and confirm that the matter has been dealt with very thoroughly in the Committee over a long time. There has been a lot of political footwork along the way in this process. It's been important, and it's been very good. I would also like to say that I essentially agree with the rapporteur's presentation and also with Mr Kolberg's report. The starting point is that everyone agrees that voters should have a greater influence on who is to be elected to the people's leading trustees. At the same time, there must be a balance between such an influence and the interest which the lots have in ensuring that those top candidates chosen for such senior posts have the necessary prerequisites to enter such a demanding position. Nevertheless, one has ended up with a somewhat strange constellation, where the Progress Party has taken a stand with the government parties. It's not going to be a habit! The Progress Party therefore believes that there is a strong counter-argument against landing on the proposal from the Right, which is actually equivalent to the old Swedish electoral system. The Swedes have now gone away from it, because it turned out that it did not actually increase the electoral influence. Our starting point has therefore been that it would be wrong to propose an electoral system that appears to give voters influence, but, at the same time, as we know, based on the Swedish experience, in reality will not have that effect. That is why we believe it is better to carry out the outlined process and rather to land on the final choice of the model in the next round. Then, of course, it is that we should have come to that conclusion a long time ago, so that it would have been possible to carry out this work so that it could apply from the 2013 elections. Unfortunately, this was not the case. But it is nevertheless gratifying that, as I understand it, a unanimous growth will support the setting, some primarily and others subsidiaryly. That means that we're now going in together to increase the influence of voters on who is to be chosen for this hall. It is a significant advance and a good citizen for future election power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2330	A good and effective electoral system that ensures that voters have an impact on their preferences in terms of both policies and persons is important in a well-functioning democracy. It increases transparency and perhaps also participation in democracy. And increasing participation in elections has all parties agreed, at least in theory. In my opinion, a good electoral system strengthens a real and legitimate regime of peoples. The proposal for a representative to discuss the introduction of a system of cumulation in the event of major elections was launched on 24 March 2010. The proposal has therefore been in the Committee for an extremely long time. The representative Anundsen said in a previous post that when matters stay in the committee for a long time, it was an expression that they represented some kind of tension. It is not possible to see in this case! As regards access to cumulation in municipal elections, it was introduced well over a hundred years ago in 1896. In 2003, the electoral law, as is known, was amended to that in force today, i.e. a lot or a selector may enter a name twice or more times. The selectors can then cumulate, either by selecting a name or by rewriting their name. In addition, they may include a name, a so-called slangger, from the list of another lot. A key element in the introduction of the new electoral law in 2003 was that individual voters should be given greater opportunity to influence personal choice. I – and Right – now believe that the time has come for a new electoral reform. That is why we supported the proposal more than two years ago. It's time for the voters now to have the opportunity to cumulate even when they choose to do so. It had, in my view, been a positive development for democracy. This is already done in our neighbouring countries, where voters are given an opportunity to influence the ranking of candidates. In Sweden, the electoral rules of parliamentary elections are such that a party makes a priority list of candidates in a constituency. You can vote on one list and give a special voice to one of the candidates on the list. The votes of the persons do not affect the distribution of mandates between the parties. The election settlement distinguishes between candidates who have not received a number of votes of at least 5 pst. by the lot number of votes in the constituencies. This proportion is now known as 5 pst. in Sweden, both by parliamentary elections and by regional elections. The system has recently been changed in parliamentary elections by going from 8 to 5 pst. But it's not right, as the representative Anundsen said, that this was done in Sweden because it was found that keeping to 8 pst would not increase the influence. You wanted to increase your influence by going down to 5 pst. That was the reason in Sweden, and it is also from the parties that are now voting against doing the same in Norway. What I am saying, in other words, is that we have a system known from Sweden – which is practiced in previous parliamentary elections, and which will be practiced in future elections – that could be used. In Finland, voters must vote for one candidate. Parties taking part in the elections must place candidates in order of priority in the constituencies and those wishing to support the party must vote on one of its candidates. The number of votes of the party is the sum of the votes of its candidates and the number of votes of the parties is proportionally distributed between the parties on the basis of these votes. The 2001 Electoral Committee’s position – so we are back in Norway – concluded that the Norwegian electoral system does not have the flexibility that characterises most comparable countries, which, in the opinion of the Right, could be improved by a legislative change, which the majority now sends to the investigation and does not vote for. A well-functioning electoral reform, which has been discussed by several speakers, must take care of some cross-cutting considerations. This may, for example: relate to the ability of the parties to ensure their influence over which candidates are selected as central dependants and wives on behalf of the lot. It is desirable that the batches also have a significant influence on this process, not least to ensure that the top candidates have the necessary prerequisites to fill the work. The lot’s access to pre-cumulation or deletion of candidates, or the affixing of ‘slower’ from other lots, are elements of an electoral system involved in this balancing process. The parties’ need for predictability and security of their top candidates must be balanced against the interests of the voters of individual and political influence. I think that interest is there – the experience from Sweden shows that it is – and there are not so many differences between neighbouring peoples. As I said, a new electoral system would be a positive development for democracy and would contribute to a more well-functioning electoral system. In the opinion of the Right – and our view is supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Committee – this scheme should have been introduced by the 2013 Grand Election. I see that at this point in time it has been in the past, but the matter has been in the committee for over two years. An investigation could have been initiated, or the proposal could have been adopted directly or with an amendment that would enable it to be implemented at the 2013 elections. But there has not been any political will to do so, and if I can say so, there is probably a certain distance between Prime Minister Stoltenberg's repeated speeches, well-worded and good, after July 22nd last year, which said that Norway is going to face the situation of'more democracy' and'more transparency' and a concreteisation of this. A change in the electoral system could open up more transparency, and on the right-hand side, we have been willing – if desired – to change our proposal to follow the new Swedish system, i.e. by 5 pst. That would give voters greater influence than the old Swedish system, which we have proposed. Nor has there been any willingness to do so during the treatment. So there has been real political resistance, and a unwillingness, to the proposal. The representative of Kolberg expressed himself well to be ‘considered’ of the proposal. I can only say that in that way that I am sorry that the scheme cannot be implemented in 2013, after the treatment it has been subjected to in the committee, and I hope that an investigation is not a new way of laying down the proposal. You might have your suspicions about that, but let's hope for the best. I bring up this proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2364	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2367	It's a little strange how different one perceives this. After listening to the representative Per-Kristian Foss, I have to say that I was a little surprised, because I have not understood that there has been any political struggle about this at all. There has been a suggestion from the Right about a percentage that turned out not to work as they had thought – in Sweden. That's why many of us have been waiting for the Right to come up with a proposal that works. They haven't. Then I thought it would be very special that one claimed that the case had been trained. For my – and for SVs – part: We had this matter up at the group meeting in 2010, I believe it was, after she was presented. We said we would go in for this, but one had to adjust the percentage if we were to support it. But it has not been done by the proposers. They're making a proposal that could lead to more suffocation, but that didn't lead to it in Sweden. The Swedes went down to 5 pst. If one wanted this as strong as it sounded as in Political Quarter today, where the Vice President of the Party said the case was trained, it is strange that one does not present a proposal that at least some of the other parties were willing to vote in favour. Then one had actually done what gave the meridian movement that was the intention when the proposal was seen. So I just needed to say this. SV is very focused on being part of and creating a system that gives greater influence to the voters. I think that's good for democracy. In this way, democracy can develop and give individual voters even greater influence than one has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2376	The Bondevik II government proposed a system of cumulation by decision-making in 2003. This was voted down by Stortinget at the time, but the Christian People's Party has not changed its position on this matter for that reason. We still believe that a system of cumulation should be introduced by decision-making, as we do in municipal and county elections. This is about giving voters greater influence and influence in view of who will represent them at Stortinget. The experience from the county elections so far is that there are few smokers in the election, but there are some. This shows that the voters have gained an influence which, in the eyes of the Christian People's Party, is positive. Perhaps it is also possible that influence is increasing, that some more will use their voting rights – as the Per-Christian Foss has also mentioned. In such an arrangement as the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left now propose, the parties will continue to have great influence on the lists, and so on the choice of whom they want to represent on the Stortinget. And, yes, it's important to have a good balance here. But anyway, an increased possibility of electoral influence we think will be positive for democracy. Unfortunately, it does not seem that this time either a proposal to introduce a cumulation system by roll-call elections will be adopted, but the Christian People's Party will subsidize the majority's investigation proposals in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2387	A brief statement on an important issue: it is important to have a good electoral system that has legitimacy in the population and that is easy and easy to understand for the voters. I am therefore pleased that the Committee in its vote points out that an electoral system that ensures that voters have an impact on their preferences in terms of both politics and people is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. However, the question of what kind of personal choice scheme we should have in the case of large-scale elections is complex – as it is also emphasised – and raises many issues where different factors need to be weighed against each other. A challenge is to strike a good balance between giving voters the opportunity to influence who is to represent them and ensuring that the parties also have a good influence over who is to be chosen. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has previously announced that we consider addressing the issue of whether changes should be made to the current system. The rules of decision-making have been unchanged since 1921, and time is now ripe to discuss changes. We have gained a lot of knowledge and experience in the time since the Election Law Committee published its work in 2001. This is important if you are to consider changes. We cannot recommend that changes be made with effect from the 2013 Grand Prix elections. Here it is important to remember that the parties start their work on the nominations in the harvest. There is no time to make the necessary changes within that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2398	For the sake of order, I would just like to state that it is most unusual in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs with a duration of more than two years for proposals, as the representative of Langeland could give the impression. It is also the case that representative proposals may be amended at any time during the Committee's proceedings, as opposed to constitutional proposals. Therefore, it would have been possible at any time to change the proposal from 8 to 6 to 5 to 4 pst., or for that matter lower – but I have now mentioned several options. The right has been open to all options to ensure a majority in favour of the proposal. Some such opportunity has not been present, although, sir. Langeland was willing to take part, if necessary, in an amended proposal. There is nothing in the way that the committee could make such a change along the way, but it would not secure a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2405	It's just a brief comment on the statement from the Right that the matter has been trained in the committee. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I do not recognize myself in that. I was appointed to the Procuratorate not long ago – I have been a member of the Committee from last autumn. Since the procedure was given to me, the Committee's proceedings have been normal and with the expected progress, so I do not think it appropriate for the Right to claim that the matter has been trained in the Committee. In any case, I find that the case rapporteur is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2413	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2427	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2436	I will present the position of the Industry Committee on the proposal for the agricultural settlement of the year, but first I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this position. Then I have to say that I feel like an anti-climate, after we have adopted an agricultural message that got a good start among the country's farmers, that there were no negotiations on the basis of the government's offer. Nor did it last time an agricultural notification was submitted, in 2000. Also then there was a breach. I'm just mentioning it as saying, and I'm not going to spend any more time on that relationship right now, but I'm going to add that we in the government fraction have taken this signal very seriously. Agricultural negotiations are conducted on the basis of the main agreement between the two agricultural organisations and the country. In the event of a breach, the state's offer is sent to Stortinget, and it is also a tradition that Stortinget will decide what is in the offer. This is something I take for granted that the organisations are fully understood. In my opinion, it is this procedure that takes care of and makes sense to the negotiating institute. When we dealt with the agricultural announcement on 12 April this year, the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, said: ‘The size suggests that agriculture and the Norwegian food industry are to be ensured predictability by providing the main pillars of the Norwegian agricultural model as the basis for Norwegian agricultural policy. This means that the government, through various arrangements, shall ensure a high level of import protection, maintain the agricultural agreement between the country and the industry and continue the role of the cooperative in the management of the market organisations.’;» I believe that these are important principles that we must adhere to. The overall framework for the settlement of the year is 900 million. NOK 330 million. kr is the change in target prices from 1 July of this year. The total income-impact framework in 2013 is 625 million. kr. In addition, the Agricultural Development Fund will add 275 million. kr, which is a significant strengthening of investment opportunities. I think it is right to say that the offer follows up the big picture by facilitating income growth, and that investment opportunities are strengthened. Increased output based on national resources is facilitated, following the ambitious objectives set out in the Communication. It is positive that a system of grubbing-up grants is reintroduced. I think it's necessary to get even more focus on good agronomy in agricultural production. In addition to proper profitability in industry and investment vehicles, welfare schemes are very important to stimulate good recruitment. I therefore think it is very good that the agricultural settlement now commits to establishing a system of graduated payment of replacement subsidies in case of parental leave. It's a wanted scheme from many young users, and it's very good that it now seems to be going in order. A majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advancement and the Right, emphasises the importance of making the best possible use of Norwegian resources for roughage-based livestock farming. It is an important factor in exploiting natural resources and preserving the cultural landscape. It is therefore important to increase grazing subsidies within a framework of 22 million. kr and that there is an increase in the regional premium for meat. Norwegian producers today do not meet market demand for beef. The majority of the Committee therefore calls on the government to implement a separate strategy to develop measures for the increased production of beef. TINE announces the need to increase milk production. It's a signal that I think it's important to discuss with the parties to the agreement. I think it's important that that signal is taken seriously. In April 2011, the Matkette Committee came with its investigation into the conditions of power in the food chain. The selection points to major challenges in the Norwegian food market, including: related to the organisation and lack of competition in the food value chain and a significant shift in power has taken place in favour of the chains in the retail trade. One of the suggestions from the sample is that a law governing the rules for negotiations, known as the law on good trade, should be established. I noticed that this has had a wide connection, among other things. from the LO, the NHO, the Consumer Council, the Farmers’ Layer and the Food Suppliers’ Association. I am pleased that the majority in the committee joins in this and ask the government to start legal work with a view to establishing a law on good trade practices and to setting up a legal committee to investigate this. The majority also assumes that there is an objective for the law to be dealt with during the current period of ageing. Another aspect which is not an element of the agricultural agreement, but which is very crucial for agriculture, is the protection of imports. It's not a simple problem. It is important to have a knowledge-based approach to these issues. Customs level and border protection must be balanced in such a way that there are no unintended consequences in terms of consumer prices, commodity prices for the food industry and the RAC industry. This must be under continuous surveillance. However, it is essential that we safeguard the space for action in border protection, that we maintain a sufficiently robust border protection system at all times. Under the WTO Agreement, the country has the opportunity to have an import protection to ensure national food production. It is a prerequisite for ensuring the disposal of Norwegian agricultural raw materials, obtaining fixed prices in the agricultural agreement and making use of the resources available to us for food production. The majority therefore assumes that the government ensures a high level of import protection. The Committee points out that, in order to achieve the objective of the agricultural notification to increase food production based on Norwegian resources, it is essential to ensure continued volume production, bulk production, special meat and milk as a basis for agriculture throughout the country, and as a basis for a continued competitive and innovative Norwegian food industry. This is extremely important to establish. Volume production is essential for industry, and it is the basis for developing a special product that can increase value creation even at primary level. In addition, the Local Food Programme is an important stimulus and player. Otherwise, I think it is nice that there has been an increase in the allocation of bioenergy, as well as an increase in the total allocation for forestry to 204 million. kr. When we dealt with the agricultural notification earlier in the year, we assumed that in order to achieve the high objectives of increased income, increased production and continued agriculture throughout the country, yes, we also assumed that the agricultural agreement would be one of the pillars of this. We're in a country that's marginal in food production. We want the industry to be involved and influence its future efforts. A break in new and no, well, but in a longer-term perspective it is very important that the industry itself participates in influencing the direction and dimensioning of the various elements of agricultural policy. It's very important that we realize that this is not a pay agreement. This is an industrial agreement in which independent farmers engaged in food production in a country where food production conditions are relatively marginal have the opportunity to influence their own framework conditions and product prices. Norwegian farmers are thus in a special position that has this opportunity, and I think that we should have a development that ensures continuity, good recruitment and innovation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2479	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2482	In the spring we have seen that there have been some demonstrations, farmers have demonstrated, and you are not satisfied with the government's policy. The working party is very good at saying that they have all the tools needed in the toolbox to help the business. That's why my question to the representative Haugen is this: can the representative give me three things that he wants to take out of the toolbox and use, so that the farmers of next year are free to break and not demonstrate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2494	I will be careful to enter the agricultural negotiations for the next year already. But what the government parties here want to go for is the direction we have drawn up both in the agricultural notification and in this agricultural settlement, namely that, unlike the Progress Party and the Right Policy, we will be investing in agriculture across the country. This may be the most important thing to achieve the goals that we've set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2499	There is a cross-political consensus on the objective of increasing food production in Norway, and there are different ways of achieving this objective. Today, in the newspaper Our Country, we can read about a coastal farm in More and Romesdal, where father and daughter Harnes have made huge investments. They're running a modern farm on Harøya, in the sea gap between Molde and Ålesund, and they're ready to step up food production. As milk producers, they have joint farming, which gives good production opportunities if they are allowed by the government to escalate. In the nation 6 June we could read about the risk of milk shortage, that TINE needs 30 million liters of milk. Increased production must be added. Who really believes the Workers' Party should be allowed to increase its production, and why will the Workers' Party not allow all good forces to contribute to increasing food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2510	The Government Parties and the Workers' Party will be able to do so within the limits of the allowances available to those who have the opportunity to increase their output. Then I assume that there will be discussions between the parties to the agreement, so that one finds a solution to how this should be done in an optimal way. We are very concerned to follow up the objectives of the agricultural notification to increase food production – to increase the production of meat and milk.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2517	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2520	In last year’s agricultural settlement, State aid of 13.3 billion was granted. kr and a protective support of 11 brd. kr – total amount of 24,3 billion. kr. In other words, agricultural aid amounts to 456,000 kroner per year, and the aid's share of the value of production is 61 pst, and we also see that customs duties increased from 150 pst. to 400 pst. This year we have an increase in the budget of 900 million. kr. Despite oversubsidies, Norwegian prices, measured at producer level, are well above twice as high as on the world market. Here we see the annual support in 2011 values since the so-called escalation decision in the mid-1970s, which also coincided with the start of the Norwegian oil adventure. After the sharp increase in aid at the end of the 1970s, culminating in a total aid of 45 billion. in 2011 in the early 1980s, the aid has decreased and subsequently stabilised between 20 billion. kr and 25 br. kr per year. However, during this period there have also been an average of 2,600 fewer farmers per year — a two-thirds reduction for the whole period 1976–2011. Measured per year, the aid has fluctuated between 300,000 and 350 000 per year, until the red-green government came to power in 2005 and increased support to the current level, over 450 000 per year. As a point of reference for the agricultural settlement: after the red-green government came to power in 2005, the annual support has increased by a total of 36 pst. We have to go back to the 1970s and the escalation decision to find a corresponding increase in aid. In order to put agricultural aid in perspective: for a period following the accession decision, agricultural aid has been granted to an extent that, if the funds had been put into the account, corresponds to a fund of 2 400 billion. kr. By comparison, today the Norwegian oil fund is well over 3 400 billion. kr. This is aid for an industry of 0,3 pst. of gross domestic product – this despite what we have seen in newspapers, and what we have seen in demonstrations and actions. We can go into the papers for a little round and see. If you enter Thursday 12 June this year in Hallingdølen, there is a leader in the Farming Team: ‘The bureaucracy makes farmers dishonourable. Less bureaucracy and more freedom. It's the right medicine to hold on to the dairy farmers, meaning the leader of the Ål peasantry team." This is entirely in line with the fact that they want a new government and a policy that opens up for it. We can also go into the Trønder-Avisa on 10 May, where we can read that the head of state Asbjørn Helland in the Bondelag opens to get away from the whole system of agricultural negotiations. ‘Now we have to be willing to look at the system itself,’ says Helland. This is the Center Party's own. Then we also have a look-up in Trønder-Avisa on 14 January, where it is said that over 50 cooperatives have been dissolved in the North-Trøndelag in the last four years. However, the Agriculture Director considers that the form of farming has a future. So the farmer himself – the farmers of Jådårmilk DA – says that they are afraid that the work of life falls into ruins, and some of them find that what was an exhibition window for cooperative activity will be history in three years. At the same time, Minister of Agriculture, Mr Breck, promises that ‘actions will be brought to the joint ventures as part of the follow-up to the agricultural notification’. We know that that's not true. Here you promise gold and green forests that you'll do something, but then you don't do anything at all. That's why you get frustrated farmers, which is why you get frustration in agriculture. You have a system that's out of control. We had the butter crisis, it started in October and lasted until April. Six months were spent to get it posted. You go in and you look at the co-operatives that don't have a living base, and you remove the quota ceiling, and you're going to increase it by 3 pst. What happens then? Yes, one accepts raising the ceiling by 3 pst., if it is not a joint operation and has reached 750 000 litres, or has a roof of 400,000 litres. This is not the right way to do it, when you can also read in the nation that you lack 30 million liters of milk. It can be seen that during the butter crisis, the quota ceiling on milk was lifted – the one that was left until 1 April, when there was enough milk. So now we're in mid-June, it's been a little over a month, and now you're missing 30 million liters of milk. It shows that this is not a common mistake, it is a system error. Something needs to be done about it, there needs to be a change in this. We also have an agricultural bureaucracy that surpasses everything. Here we can do big cuts. We have major tasks from the university and doctoral thesis that claim there is a place between 5,000 and 10,000 agricultural bureaucrats, some say from 8 000 to 10,000 agricultural bureaucrats. This is supported by the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research. Nor has it ever been demented by the government. Then I'd say the one who's tiring, consents. We also see annual support in 2011 values, since the so-called escalation decision in the mid-1970s, that expenditure on Norwegian agricultural policy – paid by Norwegian consumers and taxpayers – is very high. However, in a socio-economic assessment of agricultural policy, expenditure must be offset against socio-economic benefits. The relevant question, then, is whether agricultural aid has given a high return to society compared with other good purposes, such as: infrastructure investment, generally better business framework conditions or saving to future generations. In order to assess the welfare impact of agricultural aid, we can begin by comparing actual policies with the guidelines of economic welfare theory for industrial policy. Norwegian agricultural policy today is largely about production, regional distribution and income policy. It is to a small extent geared towards common goods, the environment and active competition. It must now be said that production promotion is part of modern, cost-effective agriculture. It is difficult to streamline production without compromising the nostalgic nature of the cultural landscape or producing food without affecting the external environment. Nevertheless, there is just support directed directly at the volume of production that is the support pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy. Food security is another type of common good that can legitimise public intervention. Food safety and security of supply are distinguished. The safety of food can best be ensured through the control of Norwegian-produced and imported food, today under the supervision of the Food Authority. Security of supply at national level is about the ability to provide food to the population in all circumstances. At all times, the need for calories and nutrients must be met by sources of national production, stockpiling, imports and food aid. Traditionally, in this context, you think of a barrier from the outside world, i.e. a drop in imports and food aid. Even against the latter scare scenario, policies will ensure the highest level of current production at normal times. Furthermore, the entry of fish and plant food may be increased at the expense of less energy-efficient food such as meat and milk. Nor does production during normal times have to be similar to the crisis menu. Not least, one can rely on stocks of energy-rich and storage-rich products such as cereals and sugar. When you talk about security of supply, it's striking to me that you don't mention that today we export 38 million meals of fish every day. The party wants a different alternative from the government. We wish, among other things: to lower the duty on co-feed at the same customs rates as in Denmark. That's going to save 1.8 billion. kr. We want better depreciation rates for machines and equipment, which we want to increase from 20 to 25 pst. We want to add an investment grant with conversion funds of 1.5 billion. We want to have a depreciation rate on buildings that increase from 6 to 8 pst. - a price of 150 million. kr. We want to remove taxes on the sale of farm use. We want tax-free fund provision and investment through an investment fund scheme based on a forestry model. We want dividends for other purposes to be taxed as capital by 28 pst. We want to lift the milk and meat production ceiling. We want to change and liberalize concession law. We want to deregulate and abolish housing, compulsory employment, bans on sharing and maximum price for concessional agricultural properties. We want to open up alternative forms of organisation for operations – joint operations, ANS, DA, AS etc. We also want to create a BSU project to get to this. We also want to stimulate the investment in bioenergy, among others. to follow up St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009 on 30 p.m. bio-waste in agriculture shall be included in the production of bio-energy, which solves challenges, inter alia. connected to the spread area. I would also like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party and inform you that the Progress Party supports the Left's proposal No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2565	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2570	The representative, Treldal, made a big effort at the introductory part of his article, and I had some problems hanging out with it, I just have to admit it. But I noticed that neither the party in the agricultural report nor in the vote has co-existed with the majority in the emphasis on the objective of agriculture across the country – on the contrary. They talk about deregulation and improving the efficiency of the best agricultural areas in the country. Then I think it's fair that the Progress Party and the Right now goes out and announces cut in the order of 4 billion. kr if they come to power. The progress party understands I want to cut more – up to 7 billion. kr – as they have voted in recent years. What is the message of the representative for the agricultural population in Northern Norway that this is going on? Are they going to move to town?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2577	With the Advance Party in government, agriculture will not be shaved as today and would have to lay down three farms per day seven days a week. 2000 farms are set aside per year. That's what you do in government, because you have a policy that makes you chase the farmers away from what they're doing. When you talk about the farmers coming to town – yes, the farmers come to town. They come to town to demonstrate against you. Clearly, it is their policy that drives the farmers to the city. That's why they come to Oslo. That's why they come to Trondheim. They come to the cities thanks to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2582	Representative Torgeir Tåldal is asked to use the president to talk to the rest of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2585	The party of progress writes in its comments: ‘To achieve this, a structuralisation of agriculture is necessary in order to reduce unit costs.’ Is that objective in line with the objective of an agricultural policy across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2595	It is clear that it is a goal of agriculture throughout the country. Unlike the government and you, we actually want to equalize the farmers. We don't want to create an a and b layer, which you do, by saying that if you have reached a production ceiling of 400,000 litres of milk, you shouldn't be allowed to produce any more. We actually want to equal the farmers. We want to let the farmers decide even if they will be allowed to live in the villages. With their policies, you centralize and hope that most of the farmers will move to the city. Maybe that's one of the reasons Oslo has a lot of population growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2600	It is possible that the representative Torgeir Tåldal does not hear himself, but the rest of the Stortinget hears it. I'll ask the representative to use the president when he talks to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2603	The Right Party and the Progressive Party are now promoting proposals that will obviously significantly reduce income opportunities in agriculture and lead to major structuralisation and closure. That's exactly what you're saying. The leader of the Norwegian Bond Team, Nils T. Bjørke, said in his speech to the Bondeting yesterday that the comments of the Right Party and the Advance Party confirm and reinforce the skepticism of the League of Bonds in their agricultural policy. How can it be that the Progress Party believes that you are going to experience increased food production, among other things? customs tariff on cereals, which industry itself says will delete Norwegian grain production?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2608	Here is a president and wants to be used. This applies to both Tåldal and other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2611	It is quite clear that with the policy of the Center Party, I understand that at Bondeting you may have problems explaining it. It's clear that on the Bondeting or among the party's own, there may be someone who doesn't want any change. I have full respect for the fact that many farmers do not want changes. But most of the farmers will actually have changes. In all the posts I referred to, the heads of the peasants' teams are in Trøndelag, Hallingdal, etc. and say that we need new policies. It is possible that the representative should perhaps hear better according to what other farmers say, and not pick out some farmers who speak the representative's case. Most of the farmers demonstrate in trains against the government and want new policies. That policy can be given by the Progress Party, and we will give it after 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2616	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2620	Let me first address the matter to the rapporteur who has done so in a sober and factual way, as he always does. I believe that Norwegian agricultural policy could occasionally be served with a little bit more soberness and a little less emotions. In dealing with this agricultural situation, the Right has laid the foundations and continued the views we had on agricultural policy in dealing with the agricultural notification in the United Kingdom a few months ago. Since the settlement was not negotiated this time, we have been left with the negotiation play from the state in the form of a proposition. We support the government in the overall economic framework presented in the proposition. But we believe that it would be possible to change something on the device of the use of the resources, which we think could have been eaten more. Several from the industry share that view with us. Our alternative proposal in the vote is not a detailed full review of all individual items in the farm. That's an impossible problem. But we signal an alternative through a distortion of financial resources more to direct production promotions. We've moved in at the base of 100 million. kr in our alternative proposal, partly to improve the grain economy, by introducing a basic grant and in addition a price write-down grant that compensates better for the target price increase. It means safer volumes and reserves for manufacturers, and it has improved competitiveness and profitability for, among other things. the baking industry and those engaged in power-feed production. There has also been a major concern in the industry about a significant deficit in Norwegian beef. In our option, we also promote proposals to increase the allocation of production-driven measures in this area. In the context of changes in allowances and grant limits, it would increase profitability and stimulate more output. Our amendments have been covered by corresponding reductions in the provisions of the Agricultural Development Fund. So I want to spend a little time on three pillars of agricultural policy: the agricultural agreement, import protection and market regulation. After this setting was presented, it has been claimed by the Centre Party in particular – the case-rapporteur was exemplary, he did not say anything that was not stated in the comments – that we want to wind up the agricultural business. Actually, we don't. In connection with the agricultural notification, we said that we want the agricultural settlements, and we said that in connection with the agricultural settlement last year. It's in our program. We want changes. We want to have it dealt with at another time, we want to see it more in connection with the budgets, but that doesn't mean we want to wind it up. It's a pretty easy way of dealing with the truth when even the Minister of Agriculture travels around and scares the farmers with this. I think we get a more objective debate if you stick to what's really our opinion. In connection with the agricultural notification, we concluded that the protection of imports is important for Norwegian agriculture and that we depend on it. But we didn't say anything about making ourselves even more dependent on it – and that's where the difference lies. We believe that we should prepare ourselves for the trade changes that can occur and that come through the WTO and the EU system. We need to increase our competitiveness also in agriculture. Productivity is good, but it should be even better. Agricultural operations should be used for their preparation. The volume remains, the number of producers is decreasing – they are becoming more efficient and larger. All of this is good, and agricultural policy should stimulate this. In other words — to draw a conclusion from this: let us direct development rather than be guided by the developments that are taking place anyway, and then debate why it went as it was with agriculture. The same applies to market regulation. We believe that market regulation is necessary. We have proposed that it should be set up in another way, that it should become more competitive, and that it should be more like the market players. We also see the need to balance a market that is difficult to see, but we do not want it to be transparent to the different actors. It was an attempt to take down some of the myths – meant as a little preparation for what is likely to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2648	The President expects the Svein Fleet representative to take up the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2651	Thank you for the reminder, President. Not only do I take up the proposals, but I also warn that when our excellent alternative proposal may be voted down, we will join the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2658	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2663	The Right and Advance Party have a note that I've noticed, where it says that the year's wage growth for people is mostly eaten up by the increased target prices that come through this settlement. I believe that the claim to notify with respect is not consistent with the facts. There are 2.5 million employees in Norway who get about 17 000 kroner in salary increases. That's 40 billion. kr. That means that the target price increases in this settlement eat up 1 pst. of the growth of wages and salaries. In other words, you can do such wage settlements for 100 years before it eats up the year's wage growth for most people. Does the representative Fleet agree that the Right Party and the Advance Party have been injured here to write something that is wrong in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2672	There might be many settings in Stortinget that are not a hundred percent perfect, I agree. There are many ways to figure this out, but if you look at the percentage: if you go back five to six years and look at the trend in the target prices versus the trend in wages, you'll find that the percentage of the trend is that the target prices actually increase more than the wage does. So that's what Arne L. The pile presents, is a truth with certain modifications. But let me agree that our remark can also be a truth with certain modifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2679	Right, too, writes in its comments that a desire for a structuralisation in agriculture to bring down the price of the goods from the farmer. Does the representative Pleatten think that it is in line with their ambition to have an agricultural policy in the whole country, and that agriculture in the districts will also benefit from a structuralisation that leads to a fall in the price of their products?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2684	Then I am dealing with the case rapporteur, who is talking about the importance of volume production. He says it is very important for food producers. There is no doubt that having an efficient volume production that reduces costs and that increases the profitability of agriculture is not a demeanor for those who operate less and for those who operate in the districts. If you get effective operation on part of this cake, it will be more to those who need it. It's just to look at the use of the total funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2691	The right wrote in its alternative agricultural message that they are concerned with increasing food production. In yesterday's nation, the representative of the Progressive Party said that it would be easy for the Progress Party to agree with the Right on Agriculture. In the vote, the right-hand party has signed up with the Progress Party on a comment and in proposals on a proposal. When the industry itself says that they need more money to increase food production, how will the Right manage to increase food production in cooperation with the Advance Party, which each year proposes cut in transfers of between NOK 6 billion and 7 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2696	It is true that we are in agreement with the Progress Party in some comments, we are in agreement with them in some proposals, and we agree with them in some policies. With regard to this proposition that we are now dealing with, the Right has not taken a position on the budgetary effects beyond what the agricultural settlement involves. I therefore propose to the representative Lange Nordahl that she come back with her proposal when she sees our alternative budget next autumn. There is no doubt that we, both in the Right and the Advance Party, have other measures and ways of using the funding. We want to look at rationalisation opportunities, savings, red tape – there are a number of things that can be done about. Whoever denies that everything has to be hogged in stone, and that there's not one thing to change, I think it's the one that has to revise its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2705	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2709	The government recently issued a big message on agricultural and food policy. Here we had a broad review of the role of agriculture nationally and internationally. The world needs more food, and Norwegian agriculture needs to take its share of the responsibility to increase food production. However, it is important that he is as much as possible based on national resources, such as roughage and pasturage, and not on increased imports of feed. SV is therefore pleased that an increase has been introduced in the supply of agriculture. It stimulates the use of domestic resources for our food production. Another central element of the agricultural message is agriculture in the whole country, which we have been in foreshadowed by the exchange of lines before today. At this point, there is a big difference between the right and left sides of the policy. The government's supply means strengthening the district profile. Particularly where agriculture is an important part of local business and where developments are particularly challenging due to topographical and climatic conditions, it should be invested. The right hand side notes and the right hand side notes go in opposite directions. These parties write that they want a structuralisation in agriculture to reduce the price of what the farmer delivers. A number of specific suggestions from the right hand side will produce centralization. It shall apply, inter alia, to: removal of the geographical limits of milk quota translation. If the Right Party and the Progress Party get a hand on the wheel of agricultural policy, we can say good-bye to the ambitions of agriculture throughout the country. The agricultural notification emphasises that Norwegian agriculture depends on good import protection. There's also a big difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side. The Progress Party and the Right will build down customs protection. It will weaken the income base and lead to centralisation. This is in addition to the billion-dollar pits that come every fall in the state budget. The Christian People's Party has its own comments. There may be grounds for recalling what the party was able to do when they were in government. There may also be reason to ask if they are able to get more when they are to carry the Propulsion part on the load. The large daily food chains have gained ever greater power over the trade in food here in the country. This could threaten agricultural cooperation and make it more difficult to maintain the production of agricultural products throughout the country. I wonder that the right party is busy reducing prices to the farmers, but won't look at the power of the chains over price developments at the other end. SV is very pleased that there is a number in the committee that will put in place a law of good commercial practice. As we deal with the agricultural notification, Stortinget concluded that Norwegian agricultural policy is based on three important pillars: import protection, agricultural cooperation and the agricultural agreement. The agricultural agreement and the agricultural negotiations are important for the agricultural organisations to be given a hand in the direction and direction of the measures to be taken to strengthen agriculture. But when we negotiate, it's not always that the parties get the same thing. We have to accept that and take note of it. We didn't get into goal this year. Therefore, it is important for SV to state that we are committed to the objectives of the agricultural message. We stand firm on the income target, and we stand firm on the ambitions of exploiting the space for action in import protection – and we stand firm on the ambitions of agriculture throughout the country, which we will fight against the right forces of their rationalisation and centralisation policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2728	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2731	In the past, it was an SV State Council which proposed that the public should, by means of the tendering principle, ensure the purchase of organic products, i.e. that the public should be required by the tendering principle to purchase organic products. I also register in the file today that the red-greens are gathered that it is a good idea, and that they will continue to work on it. When you take the volume of food that the public buys, and look at the volume of organic production in Norway, it will lead, first of all, to an enormous price pressure on organic products. The second, which may be dangerous, is that in such a debate, it is indicated that traditional agriculture in Norway is not good enough. My question to the representative is: is SV concerned that we are talking down traditional Norwegian agriculture by running symbol policies like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2740	I'm definitely not worried about that. Even if we talk about one product, there's nothing to talk about. It is quite common in all marketing – in all contexts – that we argue for something that we think is good. It is definitely not the same as a negative marketing of what is not in that marketing. Otherwise, it turns out that some of the public institutions in their own interest are starting to invest in organic food. I just read in the media that, among other things, The defense, which has been strongly represented here earlier today, was looking to purchase organic food.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2747	In the year's wage settlement, the government laid down a revenue increase of 3,7 p.m. on land. for all employees. That would give an average add-on of 17 400 kroner. Various strikes and measles in addition to spring and summer make this supplement most likely to be even bigger. When the government developed the government's offer in the agricultural negotiations, the overall framework was set at 900 million. kr. Of the total, only 625 million. kr give effect to income. This represents approximately DKr 13 000 per year in agriculture. Is it the Swedish Government's and Workers' Party's strategy to pay attention to civil servants and industrial workers in the front fields, who traditionally belong to the most faithful electoral groups of these parties, at the expense of those who have their income in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2754	It's when one sits in the government, one shows what one gets. I just got numbers that show that during the Bondevik II government there was zero increase in the real income of the farmer, despite the fact that it was quite even and good real income for the rest of society. When we link the negative results of the Bondevik II government when it hoarded the price development of agriculture, when one wants to open up to include the Progress Party in its possible new government cooperation, I notice that there can be some price developments for agriculture at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2761	We could read in the nations in the week that was, that you promised to fine and improve next year's agricultural budget, where everything would be so much better. In other words, you have admitted that you have done a very bad job this year – which I fully support you in, you have done a bad job. My question to the representative is: Can you mention three things that you need to have in your toolbox and give to the farmers next year, in order to avoid farmers having to move from what they have, and to the city – in order to possibly try to get a chance to survive?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2768	The President will try to do a little job here. When the representative asks the representative who is on the other side, the question should be asked through the President – and only through him. There is no ‘you’ or ‘them’ – it is the ‘President’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2771	The representative asked the same question once before today. It's pretty reasonable that the answer doesn't get so very different. The measures we are going to take to strengthen agriculture, we are going to do in close dialogue with the industry. As has been said before, there are three basic pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy: the negotiating institute, import protection and agricultural cooperation. The last thing I understand is that the Progress Party is not particularly happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2778	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2781	I want to start my post by saying that I understand the frustration and impatience we experience outside among the farmers. At the same time, I note that it has been a long time since Norwegian agriculture has been so much mentioned and received as much sympathy from as many supporters as this spring. On behalf of the industry, I think this is good, even though it has blown around us in the Center Party and in the government this spring. We are concerned that as much as possible should understand the importance of Norwegian agriculture. Then the flood lights need to be directed more towards the industry and the high value of national food production for our country. What was recently called for in the Stockholm Consultation on settlement was not new objectives for agricultural policy but more money to implement the objectives of the agricultural and food communication. The peasants are impatient about how fast we are going forward, but agree with the direction we are going in. It's a message we in the Center Party take very seriously. The red-green majority at Stortinget will further develop Norwegian agriculture. With the Central Party in government, the income of the farmer has increased by 120 000 SEK per year since 2005. There is reason to recall that if the Christian People's Party and the Right had pursued their policies in government before 2005, this increase would have been 75 000 kroner less per year than we have delivered. That is why it is important to show the dividing lines in the right side, while at the centre we will be working with our red-green colleagues to strengthen the farmer’s income – to achieve the objectives of the agricultural message. For us in the Centre Party, it is also important to stress that the setting points forward in terms of income, customs duties, investments and food power. I will come back to this in my next article in the debate. The centre party maintains that the original offer of the State must be maintained. It is essential for Norwegian agriculture to maintain the established negotiating institute. It has also been expressed by the organisations themselves. It is a long practice for the government to promote proposals for the Storting based on the government's offer in the event of a breach of the negotiations. If the organisations break the negotiations and the Storting then improves or reduces the government's offer, it could undermine the right of the negotiating system. The centre party will not contribute to such a development. The centre party will warn against the proposals of the Christian People's Party today, which can help rock the negotiating institute. The only ones who serve to set aside the rules of the negotiating system are those who wish to waive the right to negotiate – namely the Right and the Advance Party. The Right Party and the Advance Party review their comments on the agricultural situation against the fact that farmers have their own negotiations with the State and will take this into account as part of the State budget. These parties are a direct threat to agriculture. In recent years, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have proposed billionaires in transfers, reduced import protection and the removal of market regulation. Such a policy will result in strong structuralisation and centralisation of agriculture, and a rapprochement of Norwegian agriculture as we know it today. That is why there is good reason to ask what the Christian People's Party really stands for in agricultural policy, when they say, on the one hand, that they want more red-green policy, and that the farmers have had a stronger income growth than other groups in the years after 2005, while at the same time wanting the right side to take over the governance of the country. Then it must be reasonable to demand the Christian People's Party an answer: How will the Christian People's Party be able to achieve more red-green agricultural policy when they are playing with the idea of government cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party? It's a mystery to me if anyone believes this. The leader of the Norwegian Bond Team, Nils T. Bjørke, said in his speech to the Bondeting yesterday that the comments of the Right Party and the Progress Party confirm and reinforce the skepticism of the League of Bonds in their agricultural policy. There are these parties Christian People's Party now intend to cooperate with. The centre party has a great deal of understanding of the frustration and impatience we experience out among the peasants, and we are committed to strengthening the farmer's income in the future along with our red-green colleagues. We're going to continue the efforts we've made, and we're going to do it strongly in the future. We see that the industry does not call for new objectives for agricultural policy – the objectives are widely agreed on. What farmers demand is more money to implement the objectives of the farm and food notification, and farmers are impatient about the speed, not the direction. This is a message we in the Center Party take very seriously. We in the Center Party are dedicated to helping the Norwegian farmer get paid as earned for the important job done around the country every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2813	In the Hallingdølen on Tuesday, a leader of the Bondelag stood up and said that bureaucracy made the farmers dishonourable. He says, ‘The bureaucracy is about to receive the reception from the farmers. There is some reason for the fall in dairy consumption, he says." And on the other hand, "One meeting only limits one should extend a soil or remove a rock. " This is provocative and an extra challenge. My question to the representative is: Do you agree that bureaucracy can cause problems for the farmers? Do you agree with the farmers who see the problem, and do you have any advice on how to help them get rid of bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2830	This government is concerned with simplification, we've shown that in a number of areas. We will be concerned about it in the future, and we are committed to facilitating the development of agriculture and industry elsewhere. What I want to replicate back to the representative, Tjäldal, is that if I had been a dairy farmer or a farmer in the area to which the representative refers, I would have been far more concerned if the Progress Party were to come to power with its policy. There would then be no basis for producing in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2837	In the previous reply we mentioned the proposal from SV that the public should be forced to purchase organic products. Both I and the representative Lange Nordahl come from a part of the country where they promote something called Arctic agriculture. We also got in the previous line change see the defence friend Alf Egil Holmelid elaborate that even the defense would be nice and trade organic products now. After all, the representative Lange Nordahl comes from the state of the country where the defense has its highest concentration. A proposal to force the purchase of organic products in the tendering principle will restrict the market for local farmers, including: in Troms, which then has less opportunity to sell its Arctic products. Is the representative of Lange Nordahl concerned about restricting the market in this way, giving special advantages to others and working against programmes such as: Arctic agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2846	Let me just first say that I'm happy to belong to the red-green cooperation that contributes to a strong defence in the north through the long-term plan we're going to adopt later today. I'm very proud of that and very happy about it. I'm also very concerned about Arctic agriculture. I think there will be opportunities for many to be able to submit in more areas, but what is important is the way in which defence procurement is put up, in order to facilitate who can submit, and what opportunities arctic agriculture will also have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2853	In the spring of 2000, we had a situation that is similar in many ways to today's. An agricultural message had been provided that had generated high expectations in agriculture. Stoltenberg was prime minister and had made an offer that was so miserable that the agricultural organisations broke the negotiations. At the time, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre promoted a joint proposal that was almost identical to the one we are promoting today, except for the date. Then the parties proposed to send the settlement back to the government, adjust it, renegotiate it, and give the government the power to conclude an agreement. The representative Irene Lange Nordahl accuses the Christian People's Party of disturbing the negotiating institute with such a proposal today. Why was it not problematic in 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2862	Firstly, I would say that we have a completely different political situation today than we had in 2000. For the first time, the two parties wanting to remove the foundation of Norwegian agriculture, have a majority of polls – the Right and the Advance Party. Therefore, it has never been more dangerous in history to start rocking at the negotiating institute than it is now, and therefore we will warn against the proposal of the Christian People's Party. We know what policies the Right and the Advance Party stand for when it comes to agriculture: they want to change the rules of the negotiating system, they want to deprive farmers of the right to negotiate, they want huge cuts – billions of cuts – in the transfer to agriculture, reduced import protection, and they want to reduce cooperatives. We do not want to facilitate such a policy. The political situation has changed. It's dangerous to rock by it, then it could get changes of a lasting nature. It doesn't want the Center Party to rebuild.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2869	Then the cord shift is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2872	Agricultural negotiations are about facilitating income opportunities for agriculture. The Christian People's Party wants to build up under the active peasant to secure agriculture in all parts of the country. It is essential for maintaining settlement in the districts and a living cultural landscape. A prerequisite for recruitment is that agriculture provides income to live on. I allow myself to quote the comments of the government parties in the setting of the agricultural message, Innst. 234 S for 2011-2012: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, note that the Government will ensure that farmers’ farmers’ incomes and social conditions are developed in line with other groups and further develop agricultural income and welfare policies based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005.’» It is worth noting the word ‘developing’. The Government has clarified that they wish to further develop income policy based on the policy pursued after 2005 and which has given agricultural actors a slightly higher average income growth than other groups — it is necessary to develop a formulation on ‘to further develop agricultural income and welfare policies based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005’, to ensure that agricultural operators still have a stronger income growth than other groups. In addition, I would also like to point out that the Christian People's Party – where the government has adhered to such a weak wording – proposed that income differences between agricultural actors and other groups should be significantly reduced when the Stortinge dealt with the agricultural notification. This means that there is a broad majority in the Great Britain, consisting of the government parties and the Christian People's Party, who want a larger income increase in agriculture than in other groups. It was therefore surprising, disappointing and incomprehensible that the government chose to present an offer in the agricultural settlement that was clearly contrary to the adopted agricultural policy adopted by the Stortinge. If today the Storting joins the first offer made by the State as a total framework for the agricultural settlement of the year, it will have an income effect of approx. DKr 13 000 per year in agriculture. For ordinary employees, the average income growth is likely to approach NOK 20 000 after the year's wage settlement with subsequent strikes and mediation. It is against this background that we choose to propose to send the proposal back to the government and ask the government to prepare offers that are in line with the adopted assumptions of the Stortinge for the income development of agriculture. Then new negotiations must be started with the agricultural organisations, and we also propose that the government be authorised to enter into an agreement with the organisations if agreement is reached. Otherwise, the proposal for a framework for agricultural settlement will be submitted to the Grand Duchy by 15 July of this year. When we promote this proposal, this is also why the Christian People's Party does not go into any of the comments that support this year's offer – I would like to stress that. We want a new and better offer that actually takes account of the agricultural policy adopted in the Grand Duchy on 12 April of this year during the discussion of the agricultural notification. Finally, I would like to point out that there is no need to introduce a practice in which a lean offer from the State is to force agriculture to obey, by the fact that the Storting always gives its support to the government's bill letter for letter. It is a long practice for the government to promote the original offer of the State as a proposal for the Stortinget in the event of a breach of the negotiations. It wants the Christian People's Party to uphold as a general rule and normal practice. Nevertheless, I would like to clarify and stress that this year's negotiations were a very special situation in which the Stortinget had just before dealt with the main lines of the agricultural policy submitted by dealing with the agricultural notification. When the government this year makes such a weak offer as that of the year, it is the government that has challenged the established arrangements for negotiating an agricultural agreement between the country and the agricultural organisations. I am in favour of proposal No. 21 on behalf of the Christian People's Party. As for the claims made about the Christian People's Party that will cooperate with others who do not want the industry well, claims that our proposals rock the negotiating institute, I will come back to that, and also to the claims that the policy of this government has led to a large and historic uplift for the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2903	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2908	It is probably a reality that the greatest contrast to the agricultural policy of the Christian People's Party is the Right and the Agricultural Policy of the Progress Party. In this recognition – the representative of the Reiten can in any way see that it will be possible to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party in government if the Christian People's Party's agricultural policy is to stand at 100 pst. fixed, or is it some kind of double communication? The protection of imports is, of course, a central support bar in Norwegian agriculture. In the setting, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, writes that: ‘These members point to international changes requiring a conversion of Norwegian agricultural policy. Export subsidies and import barriers in developed countries prevent developing countries from producing food on their own market and exporting their products to developed countries.» What does the Christian People's Party actually add to the import protection? Is it an import protection that strengthens Norwegian agriculture, or is it import protection in line with what they write together with the Right and Advance Party, or is there a glitch of double standards in Christian People's Party communication here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2921	To take the last one first: the Christian People's Party has always stood for a solidarity policy towards the world's poor country. We're still going to do that. It is a fact that 64 of the world's poorest countries are already fully free of customs duties in Norway. Then there is a large group of countries, which make up 20 p.m., which have partial customs freedom. We're still going to focus on these. It's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. On the first question, the Christian People's Party has high credibility in the agricultural industry. We have repeatedly sent signals that no matter who we are negotiating with, agriculture is a priority area for us where we have little to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2928	I'm standing here with an interesting table, and that table shows that the last Christian People's Party was in government, and they even had the prime minister, the average real wage growth and real income growth was 0.0 pst. Does the Christian People's Party have the courage to believe that, in a new government with the same parties plus the Advance Party, they will do something better?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2933	First of all, I don't have access to the table that the representative is talking about, so it's a little difficult for me to comment on that. But I'm also sitting on some pretty interesting numbers. In 2005, the Bondevik II government gave over 1.7 pst. of the agricultural incomes budget, while Stoltenberg II this year gives less than 1,4 pst. of the agricultural incomes budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2938	Let me start by saying that we from the centre party are going to contribute to the table to which the representative Holmelid referred, being distributed to the Christian People's Party, so that they can look at the percentage change of 0.0 pst. The centre party and many of us think it is surprising that the Christian People's Party later on as it is at all possible to conduct government negotiations that make the Right Party and the Advance Party turn its back on agricultural policy and choose the opposite direction of the great cuts they have proposed year after year. The Christian People's Party confirms in its comments that the red-green agricultural policy has given farmers better income development than other groups. The Farmers' Association stated that the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party in this matter would frustrate Norwegian agriculture. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is playing with the idea of cooperating with the Right Party and the Advance Party. In the period before 2005, with the Christian People's Party in government, the income gap between agriculture and other groups increased. How can the Christian People's Party believe that an approach to the Right and the Party's rage policy will close the income gap in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2947	To take the last one first: the Bondevik II government was a minority government where we ruled with the Right, and where the Progress Party had an important role to play on the tip. I can't see that Norwegian agricultural policy was shattered in that situation. But I repeat what I said instead: no matter who the Christian People's Party is going to negotiate with, agriculture is an area where we have little to give. It's a priority area for us. Then, to be honest, I'm getting a little tired of other parties concluding on our behalf about who we're going to work with. That's what's implicit here. We have a good and thorough process in the Christian People's Party on which we are going to land during the early harvest, and then we are going to give those answers and those clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2954	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2957	Unfortunately, the left is not yet represented in the Business Committee – we hope to do something about that. We think it is an important area, so that is why we are taking part in the debate anyway. From the left's point of view, Norwegian agricultural policy needs strong modernisation. There is a great deal of modernisation in agriculture, but policy is clearly behind it. The left wants farmers who are sea-going entrepreneurs, who have good grant schemes – at today’s level – in order to develop their property, based on their desire to produce both experiences, food and drink, but we want them to have greater power in how to develop their property. We want greater freedom for the individual farmer. I understand that it was broken out of two main points. Firstly, the expectations were turned too high in relation to the agricultural message that was being treated. The offer that was made had nothing to do with the message. But then we might be at the heart of the problem in Norwegian agricultural policy. The impotence that feels out there with the farmers today is to touch and feel when you travel around the country. They feel that they don't have the opportunity to develop their property. They feel that they are only promised and promised, but that there are no policies associated with the goals they have set in this room. So I have a lot of understanding for those who broke out and said that this is not related to what has been promised. The left is critical to today's form of settlement, not because we're opposed to agricultural settlement. We are to have an agricultural settlement, but we want it to follow the rhythm of the financial year, which would make it easier for each farmer to see the economic consequences of an agreement. The second is the developed complexity of the agreement. I think, frankly, that in this room -- maybe with a little bit of a reservation for Mr. Lundtigen – not many people understand the complexity of an agricultural settlement. I don't think many people know all the parts of it. I think it is very difficult for a democracy and also for an industry to foresee that complexity. We could imagine that there had been a debate about a pure agricultural agreement, about the target price, about subsidies per animal, about subsidies per dean, that would have made it easy for both the elected and the individual farmer to see what you get out of it. It feels like living in an illusion when you discuss agricultural policy in this room, in relation to what you feel when traveling around the country – where frustration is so great. People feel frustrated that you promise and set great goals. The conversion is pretty cool out there. You give large sums of money over the agricultural agreement, but there are many who feel that none of that money reaches every farmer. So here we should probably take a democratic approach to the industry to simplify and to make sure that the money comes to those who actually produce the food for us and take care of nature for us. So to some of the suggestions. The right has taken some steps within the existing framework, with more direct support for the farmers. The overall grip agrees with the Left, but we disagree with the device. We will therefore not support any of those proposals. Then it's referenced to 2000 and then you went for a almost identical proposal that the Christian People's Party has presented here in the hall, sailing if I think the date is a little strange in the proposal that has been promoted. But then we have to remember that at that time it was actually a cut in the target price, that is, in the offer to the farmers that was presented at that time, it was a cut in the target price of 900 million. NOK and a cut in the transfers of 400 million. kr. That was $1.30. kr minus, the so-called offer in 2000. Then I think it makes sense that both the Left Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party voted that it should be sent back. We have tabled two proposals, no. 22 and 23, which are distributed in the hall, and which I would like to record. Let me briefly explain the number. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Here, cheese production is being subsidized at a time when we are told that we lack milk. We think that's a little illogical.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2983	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, then mentioned the proposals she referred to. There is a slight typographical error in proposal No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox So let's get rid of that right over here. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2990	The representative was honest enough to say that she thought the ambitions of the agricultural message were too high. The last left was the Minister of Agriculture, in the Bondevik II government, the income trend was 0.0 pst. Is it the Left that counts as a reasonable level of ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e2995	I understand that the government parties have found a table from a time when the state budget was half as large as under this government. I understand that the government is trying to get away from the pressure they get from today's farmers, by blaming others for being worse. The left has been in charge of the same agricultural policy for very many years. We have been able to make the farmers seagoing business. We've been trying to be honest with you about things. You shouldn't say in an agricultural report that you have to achieve very big things, if you can't deliver a month afterwards. It's the wind that's thrown in the eyes of Norwegian farmers, that's what makes them walk in the streets. They didn't walk in the streets the same way under Lars Sponheim. Now they're going in the streets because they're disappointed with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3000	When the representative Trine Skei Grande now explains the agricultural policy of the Left in the Chair, and at the same time says that the agricultural policy pursued under the Bondevik II Government is, in fact, committed to the policy of the Left in relation to agriculture, is it so to understand that what is now being discussed by the Left from the Chair is identical to what Mr Sponheim carried out in the period 2002-2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3006	We see that Lars Sponheim did very well as Minister of Agriculture. He got the sole sole proprietor. He got niche production. He got many other different producers into the agricultural market. He spoke honestly to the farmers about what we can do, what we can talk about – as opposed to today's government, which turns up expectations with a message, but fails to deliver in the negotiations. It's different times than when the Workers' Party actually cut 1.4 billion in 2000. NOK to the farmers, so I realize that the central part is satisfied when they can add up to 900 million. kr. Maybe the central party in government can be happy to get to it, but it's at least not as bad as when the Workers' Party sat alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3013	Now I think the representative Skei Grande is wrong about numbers. In 2000, the last time it was broken, there was a demand from agricultural organisations of 900 million. kr. A frame was presented that reduced by 400 million. kr, but for two out of four years while Sponheim was serving as Minister of Agriculture, there were also reductions in the government's opening offer. So what's the difference in principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3018	The difference is that there was a cut of 900 million. kr at target prices, which were to be compensated by tax measures in what was proposed by the Labour Party Government in 2000. And then there was a $400 million cut. kr. These numbers are actually fixed. But different governments have different room for action. Our room of action was about we had 650 billion. kr in a State budget. This government has a billion dollars. kr in a State budget. That means that the space for action is dramatically much larger. During the Bondevik II administration, hard priorities had to be made because of the economic situation, but at least we didn't promise anything that we couldn't give. It is the disappointment you feel when you travel around the country and talk to farmers – the disappointment that comes from promising and promising. They say you have big goals for agricultural policy, but you can't deliver, and that's why people went on trains outside this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3025	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3028	I want to start this article by saying that I am sorry that the Agriculture Negotiation Committee did not choose to enter into real negotiations on the basis of the offer made by the State. There would be more to be achieved through negotiations. It'll cost you to break. This must be so, for the sake of the negotiating institute, and I will defend the negotiating institute. It is through cooperation that we achieve the best results for agriculture and for society. Through negotiations, agriculture has achieved negotiating gains of DKK 40 000 – 50 000 per year’s work under this government. But violations and actions are a possible outcome of negotiations. We've seen it in several areas this year. It's legitimate, and I respect it. For the first time in 12 years, a new report on agricultural and food policy has been addressed in the Grand Duchy and has been the basis for an agricultural settlement. It is hardly by chance – and perhaps intelligible – that the breach comes in the first settlement that follows up the notification. Agriculture had a strong need to make clear what they wanted the message to mean and what it would do to achieve its objectives. I take the reactions and the impatience of the industry very seriously. We are going to achieve the objectives of the communication over time, and then we have to listen to the clear signals from those who are going to make it possible to achieve the goal. This settlement is the message's first follow-up point, and I would like to emphasise that it follows up the message in many important areas. It continues a good income development, which would be even better if we had come into real negotiations and got a result. It facilitates the prioritisation of access to capital for all the necessary investments ahead of us in agriculture. It prioritises the cereals, beef and vegetables sector, which are the areas with the best market opportunities and where we should be able to meet more of the domestic demand for Norwegian production. It facilitates an agronomial lift to take better care of the earth and improve its performance. And settlement strengthens the district profile and facilitates a more regionally adapted policy. The green sector can serve as an example in an area where, in the strengthening of grants, we combine the importance of increased production by increasing the grant rate, by strengthening the rural profile and continuing to ensure the basis for a varied use structure by increasing the structural profile of the area grants, which we have ambitions to do. At the hearing of the Business Committee on settlement, I noticed that there were few comments on the priorities in the distribution, on the contrary, some satisfaction was expressed. The main problem, according to agriculture and the consultation, was too little money – better income opportunities. The announcement and this settlement manifest the new course we started in 2006, which we are going to continue. Income policy has always been at the heart of the agricultural policy debate in Norway. Through the breakup and through the action, agriculture made it clear that better income opportunities are the main keys to increased production and continued agriculture throughout the country. We should, and that should be the right-hand side, notice, because that's the opposite of what they're going for in the position and in their alternative budgets. This year’s material showed a trend in revenue that was better than that of the last year’s agreement – well NOK 10000 for the entire government period from 2006 to 2012. This is due to new labour consumption figures from the Central Statistical Office, which are still for evaluation. It was a special situation, but it is both important and necessary for the negotiating institute to base the basic material of the Budgetary Title. The government did so in an overall assessment. On the basis of the income trend shown by the material, the offer we made showed a growth of NOK 13 000 per year from 2012 to 2013 – an offer that would have been improved if we had succeeded in the negotiations. This has been measured in the way that the Budgetary Title is agreed upon. It is also precisely reflected in the requirements of agriculture. This is an important part of the negotiating institute, because there are many ways to measure income for traders. The way the Budgetary Department measures, is – and must be – open and transparent. And there are many reasons why a single farmer does not necessarily recognize his own accounts, but in some way it means that there is something wrong with the basic material. But we see that the information needs are high here. In addition, the Agricultural Development Fund is added through the settlement of 275 million. fresh kr. The alternative would be to reduce the payments from the fund to the farmers, or to charge equity and liquidity, as the Right makes in its alternative proposal. The administration proposed by the government provides sound fund management and strengthens the basis for providing investment grants in the future. It is a priority area in the notification, and it is a central requirement for agriculture as well. We have ambitious objectives in agricultural policy – to increase production, to improve profitability, to put the whole country into use, and to develop the new industry. At the same time, it must be emphasised that we have a competition challenge and we must ensure a fair distribution of the values created throughout the food chain. I am therefore pleased that the initiative to review the strengths of the food value chain is now to be made concrete by the majority asking the government to start work on investigating a law on good trade practices. And I am glad that this work has broad support both here in the hall and in the organization. We will continue to address the challenges and achieve the objectives through the Norwegian model of active interaction with industry and the labour market. The government has made its agricultural and food policy clear through the Storing Message Welcome to the table. It shall be followed up over several years. The break of the year shows that industry believes that it is urgent to further improve income opportunities in order to achieve the objectives of the notification. I agree. I have studied the opposition's alternatives and suggestions in the setting of this settlement. The right hand and the Progress Party together challenge the Norwegian food model more than before. They challenge import protection, challenge the negotiating institution and market regulation. Raw materials prices shall be reduced and budget support shall be progressively reduced. In their alternative budgets, they start at 2 billion, respectively. kr and 7 brd. kr. Agriculture shall be structurally rationalised and agricultural policy shall no longer be used to create housing and employment in rural areas. Let me say that the last thing will come of itself, because the very proposal of the two parties will give greatly diminished income opportunities for Norwegian agriculture. And it has to be very long since it has been so difficult to see what the overall opposition's alternative agricultural policy would consist of. I am pleased with the Christian People's Party's commitment to Norwegian agriculture. I must also say that I am pleased that the representative in the debate today has underlined that the Christian People's Party has not yet taken sides. But it must be obvious that the Christian People's Party will not be able to realise anything near its ambitions in any cooperation with the right side. The communication on agriculture and food is offensive, for agriculture, for Norwegian countryside and for Norwegian society. I regret that agriculture was broken this year, but both the Central Party and the Government will continue to follow up on the ambitions of the notification. It's obvious that it's the best majority in the Norwegian economy to come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3059	The Council of State was in its intervention to follow up what was promised, and that was what you did. I want to go back to Trønder-Avisa on 14 January 2012. There the farmers stand up and they say, «are afraid that the work of life will fall to the ground. Some of them find that what was the display window for cooperative operations will be history in three years’ time.’ It is said that more than 50 joint ventures have been dissolved only in the Nord-Trøndelag. The same article reads: ‘Statsrådet Breck promises that instruments will be put in place for the co-operation as part of the follow-up to the agricultural notification.’ In other words, for agricultural purposes. Then my question becomes to the Council of State Breck: does the Council of State feel comfortable saying in the paper that he says to the farmers that they should be followed up, and in the next moment he presents an agreement that does not follow up at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3076	The offer of 13,000 per year work was a starting point that would have been improved if negotiations had been held, but I have said many times that I am sorry that we could not get negotiations going and thus make the room that we had in the negotiations visible. That was more than 13,000. In that, of course, there would also have been opportunities for the joint ventures to get more, as there was also the possibility for other groups. Let me just underline: I'm concerned that we should have good policies for grass-based livestock. We have shown that over the last few years, and we have shown that every year I have been responsible for the agricultural agreement negotiations, because that has been a priority. We also have to do that in the future. This year we also had other challenges. It was the grain sector, it was beef, etc., to which we have reflected. I believe that the offer we made was an estimate that followed up the agri-food communication, and that, hopefully, could give a better result for the farmers if we had received the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3085	The Council of State believes that Norwegian agricultural policy has been a success story for the last seven years when it comes to developments in Norwegian agriculture, for example. number of farmers, number of farms, number of areas in claim, lack of optimism, etc.? Is this not also the fasit of a failure on how Norwegian policies to help an industry can work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3090	What is important to emphasise in the context of the question raised by the representative, Bredvold, is that it is particularly complicated to produce ordinary goods in a high-cost country. We've seen that in other industries. There is enormous competition for labour, and it is expensive to ensure the development of income. In the 1970s, when we had the escalating decision, the income in Sweden was 30 p.m. higher than in Norway, and Norwegian youth went there to work. Today it's the exact opposite. Now the income level in Norway is 30 pst. higher, and now Swedish youth travel here in hops. This shows a bit of the challenge that we have solved by actually increasing revenue by 120 000 kroner per year in the years we've been in government until we've broken now, and that's a quality of the measures and the settlements we've had in the past. So we've delivered – we couldn't do it this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3097	I would like to see a clarification on how the Council of States perceives the comments of the Right on the negotiating institute. We have not written anywhere in the setting that we want to liquidate this, and we have written in a number of other settings that we want to keep it – but we describe what we want changed by it. I now perceive that the Council of State is travelling around and frightening the farmers with both the Right Party and the Advance Party. On the Ministry's website is some of the speech from Lillehammer to the Bondelag, where it says the following: ‘If the negotiations lead to a break next spring, no one will be better served by it than those who want the negotiating system to live. Or as the Right chooses to express it; see the agricultural negotiations more in connection with the State budget. That is what is the alternative to negotiating and designing instruments through common processes; agriculture becomes a budget entry.’ I'm asking, isn't agriculture a post on the state budget now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3110	Well, the outcome of any negotiations will be a government budget entry, that's right. And it is true, as I also stressed, that the right has challenged the negotiating institute through its comments, both in the agricultural and food reports and through what has been reflected here in the agricultural settlement. What's the point, I think, is that we have today a system that the industry itself is concerned about defending. The industry is concerned about defending it, and then I ask myself: why in the world will the Right challenge the system on which there is no other example in the world, which gives farmers a significant influence over their own income opportunities, and which gives them the opportunity to decide how to use the money, right? There are challenges that the Right should think about when they propose changes, or challenge the negotiating system, that I have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3117	The challenge is precisely what the Council of State itself has now recognised: that the outcome of the agricultural negotiations will have an impact on the budget. Our little challenge to the negotiating institute is nothing more than that this should be seen in the context of precisely the budgets on which it has an impact and influence. In addition to that, we have said nothing but that the parties must be allowed to negotiate. Then State Council Breck has to explain to me: if you got such a model that would look like the one we have, but that would be slightly different in time given that the budget year and the contract year were the same, how devastating would it be for Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3124	I perceive that the representative fleet talks down its own decisions, and I just have to admit that I don't understand what the Right believes when they say on the one hand that we are going to do about the negotiating institute across what the industry wants, and on the other hand continue to negotiate. It is not suspended, and we must therefore be able to ask the questions that are being asked here. What is the point of the negotiating institute, the Norwegian food model, import protection, the market regulation system, is that it gives the industry considerable influence over its own future prospects. Then it's being negotiated, and unfortunately we couldn't reach an agreement this year, but we've shown before that we've made agreements all the six years we've been in government. There's an enormous quality in Norwegian society, in the Norwegian model, that we're doing well to have the good cooperation with the business organisations that the system gives us. That is the challenge that the Right should answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3133	I have two questions for the Council of State. First, the Council of State strongly asserted that the Christian People's Party has no chance of achieving its agricultural ambitions along with the Right and the Advance Party. Does the State Council feel that the Centre Party has realized its ambitions in cooperation with SV and the Workers' Party? The second is that the Council of State is going out very strongly and says that the state's offer must remain standing, so that one does not rock the negotiating institute. That warning implicitly warns against the proposal of the Christian People's Party to send the settlement back to the government, adjust the offer and enter into new negotiations with the organisations. Does the Council of State realize that it can be seen as an attempt at dictatorship from the government to the Storing not to use the Storing's room for action to give the government the necessary guidance signal, of course, subject to a necessary majority in the Storing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3142	Let me first say that it is the Storting that is sovereign in deciding what to do in such a situation. But we have a main agreement, we have a negotiating institute, and we also have a custom -- let me say it this way -- considering how we're going to deal with such matters. I am very concerned that we should defend this negotiating institute. Then we also have to follow the custom. That means that, as we have done this year, we have sent over the offer to the Stortningen for treatment, and it is now adopted as proposed. So that's a little bit of the challenge in the discussion we have. First of all, that I am questioning whether the Christian People's Party will realize its ambitions through cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party – any cooperation, I would stress it – is that it is that we must at least be allowed to ask the question. I think it's important for us to clarify further in the future. With regard to the results we've achieved, I'm very pleased that we've made agreements in the last six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3156	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3159	Let me start by saying that it is the clear ambition and goal of the government parties and governments to present an offer for which negotiations are started, and that one achieves an agreement. This year we presented an offer that involved an income development of 625 million. DKK, and to relieve investments of 275 million. kr. It would have been said that at least one person, through the opening offer, had the opportunity to increase income, increase food production and focus on investment, i.e.: comprehensive in the context of the most central, much-discussed, discussed and discussed issues in the recent agricultural policy debate. Normally I think that the offer that was submitted should have said that one had exercised the right to negotiate. And of course, it's bad and difficult when one of these times has not found it right to use the right to negotiate. There is a situation that is not desirable, not least in view of the farmers who live out there and who really needed to get the subsidy that the negotiating room actually gives. Let me just use a few numbers: in the period 2006–2011, the contractual framework is 7.5 billion. kr. 2,2 — well and well — of those billions, budget resources have been transferred over the State budget. The agricultural organisations have negotiated from the country’s first offer to final agreement of 2.2 billion. kr during this period. It shows a very good and strong negotiating power in the ability of agricultural organisations to negotiate, and that there had also been a significant room in the current year. But unfortunately – there we are not. Then we are criticized by the opposition that one has not come to an end this year, and perhaps especially by the Christian People's Party – those are the ones who use the strongest words – where they say that this was a very «magnified offer». That's when I wonder how the Christian People's Party will define its own offerings in the period 2002-2005, when one year came with an opening offer of 340 million. kr, a deduction of minus 75 million. SEK in 2003, minus SEK 495 million. SEK in 2004 and plus 100 million. kr in 2005. Then the word ‘magnified’ is not even comprehensive about what they themselves have done, as they had the Prime Minister in this country. As an illustration of this, the framework was from 2000 to 2005, when we were also part of the basis of the first year, 1 billion. NOK, but at the same time it was taken down almost 1 billion. kr over the State budget for the same period. So I think you can put a question mark by using strong words when a critically corrects the offer that was there. So they kind of want to open up for new rounds by sending the proposal back again. I have to ask you questions about whether it would not have been natural, based on the rhetorical representation of the Christian People's Party now giving, that the Christian People's Party also suggested what should actually be the income base for this year's settlement. It might have been more correct, based on the rhetoric they're now using. So to a little bit of the debate. In a reply, the rapporteur pointed out that ‘the year’s wage growth for people is largely consumed by increasing the target prices of food’ — from the comments to the Right and the Advance Party. Then the representative fleet says that it was probably a truth with modifications. I must stress that false representations do not become a truth with modifications. No matter how much a modifies false claims, they don't become a truth with modifications. So also to the rhetorical use of bureaucracy. When the Right Party and the Advance Party now go out and say that they will cut four agricultural billions and indicate that it is the bureaucracy that will do so, the actual figures show that the operating budgets, overall, for the three government agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, amount to 1.4 billion. NOK, in addition to SEK 144 million. kr for the operation of the department and perhaps about 250-300 million. kr to the statesmen. Where are the four billion in agricultural bureaucracy? It might have been a good idea to bring the debate down to a real level – when you talk about Norwegian agricultural policy and the challenges that are there. To conclude, I get a picture on the web when I hear the Progress Party talk about Norwegian agriculture. It's four industrial sites. It's Trondelag, it's Jären, and it's the flatlands of the East, and it's where you've been farming, not elsewhere in the country – when you listen to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3178	Enough, now the farmer wants to cut down on the farm. We could read this in the NRK Sogn and the Fjords a few days ago. There we can read about a young couple who have been running a farm for 13 years. They both have agricultural education and were both very concerned about farming. But that's enough. Unfortunately, many have chosen the same thing as these two young farmers, and many do and will do so in the future, unless the current agricultural policy changes – and it needs to change rapidly. Three farms are laid down each day. It's a fact that never before has there been so many empty farm buildings. Never before have there been so few active farmers, and never before has there been such a small part of them again that have the industry as sole proprietors, i.e. approx. 14.7 pst. Nor has there been such a small number of farms in operation, nor has there been such a small number of farms on which food is grown. The only thing that has increased is, as mentioned above, the number of empty farms. This too must be regarded as very negative for both agriculture and rural areas. That so few want to continue within the industry, and that what was once valid, being noble or noble, is no longer valid, is sin. Whoever had previously been born as the first child on a farm, and thus had no part, had secured his future with all the positive that came with it. Today, the industry is regulated by laws, regulations, concessions, allowances, ceilings, maximum prices, taxes, taxes, regulations, etc. Expenditure has increased more than revenue, and the freedom of the Progress Party, among others. wish to give the farmers, do not want to give them the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre. This gives us an agriculture that many people don't see in the future, and that is also part of depopulation of the countryside. The girls move, and so do most of the boys. Fasit: Odelsrecht is not so popular and interesting anymore, unfortunately. I happened to be looking at the Bonderomatics program a few days ago. It's a pretty good entertainment program, but it also gave me a little aha experience, even though I was really aware of it. I believe there were six people who were looking for a companion to live with on the farm. Of these six, there was only one girl. Of course, it is not right to draw the conclusion that there are only boys left on farms, but this is probably the case in some districts. This is also a very negative development, which in turn makes it even more difficult for Norwegian agriculture to survive. Optimism is important for success. I fully understand the frustration that characterizes Norwegian agriculture. With a red-green government now for seven years and with an agricultural minister from the Senter Party, there were probably some people who believed in a future in Norwegian agriculture. When we also got an agricultural message that was almost promised gold and green meadows, and when the government's offer to the farmers was 900 million. kr, does not relate this. Anyone who does not understand the frustration of farmers does not understand the negative direction of Norwegian agriculture. I had the pleasure of being a guest at the Norwegian Bondelag's annual meeting at Lillehammer yesterday. Among other things, I was there. the principal posts of the manager. I have to say that I am concerned about the skepticism of the leader of the League of Bonds towards the Right and the agricultural policy of the Progress Party when you see how today's policy works. The Progress Party believes that everything is not just about how much transfers you get from the state, but about a whole series of other things – and you have to see the whole of it. Only having the right to own production and property must, according to the Progress Party, be very important. The fact that you can rent or rent out, sell or buy at a price agreed by two parties, without the authorities having to approve it, must also be important. Lower taxes and taxes and less regulation are another important point. The removal of allowances and concessions, housing and employment obligations are additional good things for Norwegian agriculture. Yes, there is a lot to address today's agricultural policy. The Progress Party has the solution to these challenges, and many of these do not cost anything for society. They'd rather give society money back. In addition, they will create districts where optimism comes back, and programmes such as Bondermantic become unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3199	The break in this year's agricultural negotiations is known as a result of the government not having the power to follow up the relatively unrealistic objectives set in its own agricultural notification. In the government’s offer, there is little or no stimulus for farmers who want to invest in active agriculture and increased food production. The director of the Bondelag stated in the Political Quarter that the agricultural communication promised a change of pace that was not followed up. «Increased milking facilities – but not for all», wrote the Bondebladet on 10 May. In the cold water of the so-called butter crisis in winter, dairy farmers were given the opportunity to increase milk production in the 2012/2013 quota year to 3 pst. in addition to allowances allocated. However, this did not apply to single use or co-operation operations which risked crossing volumes of 750,000 and 400,000 litres respectively. This is contrary to the government's objective, according to the agricultural communication, to increase Norwegian food production. It is a clear example of discrimination against Norwegian cooperatives and wider use. «Injustice», co-owner Anne Helen Skei said in Sandnes, and she said, "I didn't think it would be possible for us who are on the roof of 400 and 750 tonnes respectively not to be included in the percentage increase as long as there is too little milk produced. Such discrimination provokes me. We've been building stone by stone for over 30 years and spending money on the farm, and we had a pleasure being farmers. Now I am very frustrated." During an open consultation of the EEAS, the Contact Body of the EEAS stated the following: ‘This is no longer working! We see that this policy is now leading to rapid closures, but the main challenge is that the large and rational expansions of active use of the grant schemes are made unprofitable.’ This is serious. What we now see is that several restrictions act as brake blocks for the further development of the country's most future-oriented milk and meat producers. The right considers that the maximum quota for individual and combined farms must be increased and that agriculture must have a freer marketing of milk quotas within the current geographical framework. Lack of lamb meat is also well documented. Valle municipality of Setesdal indicates that the number of winter feed sheep is halved, from 6000 to 3000, over the last ten years. More and more uses are being put down while the Center Party is in government. We now see strong evidence of a faulty agricultural policy that needs new solutions. It is incomprehensible that the current support system must be so arranged that the support falls away if a farmer allows to increase the crew beyond 300 sheep. It is very difficult to understand that farmers who want to grow lose support because they want to be more productive. Right wants a change of regulation that contributes to better conditions for both farmers who want to operate on a smaller scale and those who want to assemble the operation in the case of larger poultry. It is necessary to remove rules relating to production, distribution and serving, as this is often a hindrance to the success of producers of agricultural products. A commitment to local food and drink production will be crucial for future agriculture, the tourism industry and not least for living and active rural communities throughout the country. The aim must therefore be to increase the focus on geographical origin marking and the liberalisation of the legislation for the processing and sale of food on its own farm, without prejudice to food security. The agricultural industry needs investment in the years to come, including: due to new livestock regulations. At the same time, we see that investment is lacking due to a decrease in investment capacity. It is high time we had the debate on the opportunities for development needed for Norway to have a sustainable agriculture in the future that young people want to take over and further develop. In that process, the Right considers that the ownership of the farmer for his own use needs to be strengthened and that the place of residence needs to be abolished. There is a serious interference in ownership when the state forces people who want to sell the farm to take a lower price than the buyer is willing to pay. We therefore believe that the regulation of the prices of concessionary agricultural properties must be lifted, as in many cases it provides artificially low prices, prevents turnover and increases the risk of investments on the farm. The right will improve the economic situation of farmers in different ways. We want fund provisioning schemes, a reduction in property taxes, the removal of inheritance taxes and a reduction in taxes on realising gains in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3243	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3246	Hungry and happy in food as I am, not least after long debates in the hall, I am almost ready when I am welcomed to the table. The title of the agricultural message submitted last year was just "Welcome to the table". There was an invitation to join in and produce food – and not least enough food – on the table for all of us in the future. This message was worked with both well and long, and many areas were given their place. Farm organisations and industry were in the process of getting through their cases, and it was well received when it was submitted. Unfortunately, however, the farmers would not make room at this table, because when the offer in the farm settlement was submitted on 9 May, the farmers' organisations refused to accept the invitation and went back to their place, and they went on trains. Therefore, today’s offer, without negotiation, is the same as the one made in May. It prioritises beef and green meat and has the intention to contribute to increased production and land productivity. It was also important to strengthen the rural profile, and it was even more focused on a more regionally adapted system. The strengthening of the Agricultural Development Fund also helps to facilitate new investments, with a strong emphasis on government parties. Recruitment is also important in agriculture, and there are many other industries to fight with to get people into this industry. I record that the Progress Party is concerned that women’s representation is too low in industry, but I heard nothing about what measures you want to take to improve this. The government, on the other hand, has worked to get more women into the industry through its own entrepreneurship programmes, start-up grants and BU funds for women. One example is the government's goal of getting 40 pst. representation of women in governing bodies in the agricultural sector, and in particular: cooperative organisations have already achieved this objective. When you run your own business, you are concerned about how you can increase your profits financially and get produced and sold more than what it takes to keep the wheels running. It helps to increase motivation and earnings. For me, it is therefore important that the Minister of Agriculture now looks at the challenges with regard to TINE and what they have sent out that they need more milk now, while we know that more farmers can contribute to this without having to increase their costs a lot. I hope the Minister of Agriculture can make this clear and take the situation seriously and do something about it. Then I would like to end by saying that I am not really so surprised that the agricultural policy of the Progress Party does not have such a great deal of excitement when you rotate the figures like that. It is claimed that the position reduces three uses per day, causing the total to be seven times a week. It's a multiplication table I haven't been in before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3266	First of all, like the Minister, I would regret that there were no negotiations this year. Negotiations would lead to a better agreement, and this would benefit farmers around the whole country. The full effect of the Norwegian model was simply that it was negotiated, and the farmers have shown themselves to be good negotiators. Only in the period since we took over the red-green government power, have they negotiated about 2.2 billion. kr in addition to that provided by the State as an opening offer. The year’s supply from the country follows the agricultural notification in some key areas such as the stepping-up of investment incentives, the strengthening of agricultural incomes and measures to increase production out of existing land. Provision shall be made for increased food production based on Norwegian resources such as roughage and grazing. The government will carry out a review of the tools to clarify the rural profile of the national schemes, precisely to strengthen agriculture across the country and with space for both minor use, use with different income combinations and greater use. I'm also glad that in this context, there's a review of the zoning, and I'll point out that the Sogn and fjords are divided into several zones. There is hardly any use that is easily driven on these edges of the country. Developments are particularly worrying in parts of Agder and Telemark, the coastal and fjord regions of the West, which I have mentioned, North Norway and the mountainous regions of South Norway, and it is important that we facilitate the adaptation of the drug use to the different regions. We red-green ask the government to work out a strategy to increase meat production from coarse-feed-based livestock, which is an important factor in the exploitation of Norwegian natural resources and conservation of the cultural landscape. That's how we'll get a win-win situation to meet increased demand for meat. I am also pleased that we are today putting in place measures to strengthen Norwegian production of fruit, berries and vegetables by increasing the quantitative limits for fruits and berries in the regional and quality sectors, increasing rates equally in all zones, as well as removing the maximum amount of premiums per enterprise. In agricultural policy, we look at the full difference between the Progress Party and the Right on the one hand and us red-green on the other. The Progress Party and the Right will have more volume production; they don't have much left of the small West Bank or the peasant in the North. Having a varied usage structure across the country is crucial to maintaining the composition, and then we need tools that are aligned on it, not just on volume production.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3283	The Right Party and the Advance Party are clear that they want to rationalise and centralise Norwegian agriculture. For me, on the other hand, it is an important objective to maintain agriculture with a varied structure of use across the country. In the agricultural notification and in the country's offer for agricultural negotiations, the government has signalled that it will review the means of making the rural profile of the national schemes more clear, precisely to strengthen the basis for agriculture across the country. As part of this, the zone boundaries of different forms of agricultural subsidies will now be assessed, in order to contribute to an even more acute rural profile. I see it as important that the government, in cooperation with the organisations, should start such a review of the zone boundaries this year, a work that needs to be submitted in the context of the agricultural negotiations in 2013. The intention of the Centre Party is to have an even clearer district profile, especially in areas where development is particularly worrying, such as parts of Agder and Telemark, the coastal and fjord regions of the West, North Norway and the mountain regions of South Norway. As a representative of the South Trondelag and the Røros region, I am very concerned that work needs to be done to develop mountain areas, and not least that mountain farming needs to be strengthened. Government parties have been clear that it is important to adapt the use of instruments to regional disparities, an essential step to ensure active agriculture throughout the country. So I'd like to use the opportunity to say a little bit about organic farming. The municipality of Holtål, from which I come, is the municipality of the country that has decidated the largest ecological area, the whole 31 pst. The government has the goal of 15 pst. food production and consumption shall be organic by 2020. The objective implies that 15 pst. of the total agricultural area must be organic. There are many good reasons to produce food in an organic way. For example, grazing is an ecologically sustainable way of using Norwegian land resources. At the same time, grazing maintains the cultural landscape, which is important for travel life, necessary for the many red-listed species that depend on the conservation of the cultural landscape and the only way to exploit this important resource. Now it seems that consumers are really starting to get their eyes up for organic food. Every year organic food is placed on the market for 1 billion. kr. The production of organic food shall be increased. To do that, there are some challenges we have to face. One of them is the predatory settlement, which has to be followed up. If we are to continue to have a viable grazing industry in Norway, we are totally dependent on taking out the predators that do damage to the grazing area. It is a crucial factor, both for the reindeer industry and for the sheep industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3298	In the last few days, we have recorded in the media that the Right Party and the Advance Party have become strongly involved in agricultural policy. In this case you might say that they have glued to each other. I had a little count away on my chair instead, and that count showed that the Right Party and the Advance Party have shaken so much that they have at least 23 notes in their layers. Perhaps not the big news, but for agriculture it should be, and not just a big news, but it should do more skeptical, as the representative Lange Nordahl pointed out. In the last two days, the media have put three lines under the agreement to significantly reduce the level of agricultural transfers and to start adapting to reduced import protection and structuralisation in order to obtain cheaper goods. Then we can read in the nation that the League is trembling. They have every reason to do so, and they have every reason to do so after hearing the contribution of the representative, Mr. Treldal, where he also referred to the demonstrations that have been outside the Stortinge, among others. Even though I had only the sunglasses on me then, I couldn't register any banners where it said: We want the Advance Party or the Right to the Power. With this as a hindrance, I note that the farmer team leader is out with a warning index finger and says that the red-green government should not take the support from the Farm for granted. I ask, what is the alternative for the Farmer? The agricultural notification shall be a tool to underpin the agricultural policy of the Workers' Party, not only for the first agricultural establishment, but for years to come. As has been said several times from the pulpit, and as I will also repeat: the agricultural message adds to a clearer rural profile in the national schemes. In this context, as has also been said before today, it is pointed out to Agder and Telemark, the coastal and fjord regions of the West, North Norway and the mountain regions – there is a worrying development there. More emphasis shall be placed on the device, based on regional policy considerations, as has also been said in the past. In addition, a review of the national systems and additional subsidies to Arctic agriculture, which are important, as part of this work, and the establishment of an area-based effort within the LUF, the Agricultural Development Fund, through the agricultural settlement. The leadership in the red-green notes is important for good development in favour of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3313	Norwegian food security with agricultural products is constantly being reduced, due to smaller areas, lower crops and strong population growth. The Right Party and the Progress Party once again show that they will strengthen this development strongly. This is entirely in line with FAO recommendations to counter the current international food crisis. The main means of improving Norwegian food safety is the protection of imports. Without strong import protection, it is not possible to have a national agricultural policy. There is a need for a new agricultural policy to fulfil the social role of agriculture. This requires rethinking. It is necessary to arrive at the third green position — on increased food safety for Norway. After reading the statements of the Council of State at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Farmers' Association yesterday, I need to point out some key issues. The people who want new ideas for the third green position are at full height with the people of the Ministry of Agriculture and the political environment in terms of the professional policy understanding of the situation and what are the main challenges ahead. In addition, this environment has very good contact with farmers and rural people through decades of practical experience, and not least: youth is with us. It is a major problem that the government, at the political direction of the Ministry of Agriculture, presents a reality to others about the situation in the agricultural industry, which is becoming more and more recognizable in the countryside. In short, more and more people are experiencing a saturation point for what you accept to hear. In concrete terms, the government has so far refused to implement the necessary instruments to increase food security, with the exception of the year's very modest investment aid for the ditching of land with vascular disease. The agricultural negotiations, based on the agricultural contract system, shall be negotiations between equivalent parties, as in the wage settlements between the employer and the employee. There is only one decisive difference, namely that the result is seaworthy for decisions in the Storting. As the agricultural contract system has been practised over several years by the State negotiating delegation, there is a abuse of power in the disfavor of agriculture, which the contractual system over time will not tolerate. In short, injustice is not right, if it is repeated year after year. Today's system is being practised, among others: as follows: the industry’s productivity gains are eliminated from the farmers’ negotiators by increasing production, reducing operating costs and reducing working time leading to lower incomes. Each crown is taken away from agriculture, as practised today. This is a logic that is contrary to the understanding that the government is acting against all other groups. Agricultural labour productivity has increased by about 6 pst. per year for the last 10 years. This has not had any effect on reducing the revenue gap per year compared to other groups with much lower productivity improvements. No other group with such productivity progress would be involved. That is why it is important that we go through this policy, and in the next article, I will address a number of key issues that are crucial to getting a new course, ensuring that there is consistency between the international challenges, what is happening in the industry, and what Norway, as a rich country, can afford, in a situation that is quite challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3341	I still wonder that the agricultural organisations broke the negotiations before the negotiations started. I don't think this serves the agricultural industry. Experience has shown that negotiations are beneficial, regardless of results or infringements. Having said that, I believe that this unfortunate situation is due to the lack of a common reality of the situation of farmers. I come from a local environment where agriculture is very important, and where, despite significant efficiency improvements in recent years, farming is very labour-intensive. As a neighbour of several Nordic young farmers, I see their omnipotence and enormous work efforts. I also see that most people have to do additional work to speculate on the income. In the debate on agriculture, I hear from time to time that some people believe that expensive operating buildings are proof that the farmers are serving well. Then it is important to bear in mind the demands we have made in this house on animal welfare and the working environment in the workplace. It is expensive to comply with these requirements. I am also provoked by the argument about expensive tractors and work machines. Fortunately, we have strong requirements for the working environment and safety related to the use of machinery and equipment. Of course, this must also apply to agriculture, and of course this means the cost to industry. Today's farmers have good education, they are all-round and very unemployed people. This means that they are also sought after labour in many other industries. With a lot of work and responsibility, combined with relatively low wages, the way out of the agricultural industry is quite short for many. These are occupational categories that we cannot afford to lose at a time when food production on a planet with strong population growth is becoming more important and important. That is why it is important that, in the time to come, we do what is necessary to ensure good agriculture throughout the country. It is necessary to constantly look at both the economic framework and the distribution, but what we least need in this situation is the agricultural policy of the Progress Party and the Right. It would rage agriculture in Norway and, in particular, in the part of the country from which I come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3358	The agricultural message, which has been presented earlier, emphasises that an agricultural holding should be kept throughout the country. The agricultural message also provides for increased food production. In view of the fact that there is now under-coverage both on meat and on milk, a large part of this increase must come from grass-based productions. This is also a priority in the last agricultural policy. An important commitment to agricultural policy is to counter heavy economic and social trends, and the Ministry has for several years reported to the UK about degrees of lack of achievement in parts of the country. Comparing one with Sweden, one must still be able to say that there is a positive result in Norway’s policy. So we don't need less of this stimulation, but more. In order to develop and expand production, we must maintain the area under cultivation. With an increasing proportion of the area that is leased, maintaining is a challenge. It is therefore positive that there are proposals for ditching. It must also be more expensive. Here, the need for more food must go beyond the concern of the environment. Local grazing must be opened up, and it must also be stimulated for the cultivation of new pastures. Last, but not least: Cultivated land must be protected, and I want to show that it has been submitted basic legislative proposals. The plurality of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the Right, points to the importance of exploiting grass and increasing meat production and of preserving the cultural landscape and calls on the government to develop a strategy for it. If a few are to make a positive development in the industry in line with the agricultural message, with agriculture in the whole country, adequate recruitment and increased output, there must be an income development that is not the case in society. Agricultural organisations chose to break this year. We must respect that. However, the government will try to secure agricultural incomes and social conditions on a line with other groups. The government will therefore continue its work on income and welfare policy, in line with the policy pursued since 2005. In my view, the direction of heaven is right. It also means large parts of the industry. But they made it clear this year that progress is too late. When you read the comments from the Right and the Advance Party, I think it's safe to say that the consequences will be a faster change, but I have to say that I believe that the direction of the sky is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3373	For the Centre Party, it is important to maintain a varied usage structure across the country. I believe that this agricultural settlement also takes care of it, even though I should be clear that the offer should have been higher. Like the Minister of Agriculture, I had hoped for negotiations, but I respect, of course, that the organisations chose to break. There shall be room for both minor use with different income combinations and greater use throughout the country. The Government shall carry out a review of the means of clarifying the rural profile of the national schemes and to strengthen the basis for agriculture throughout the country. It is important to contribute to raising those areas with specific challenges. I have been in close contact with many organisations around, including my own farmer team leader in Northern Ireland and the board there, to hear what they were concerned about. One of the things they asked for was a review of the boundaries of the zones for the various forms of agricultural subsidies in 2012, with a view to clarifying where it is right to make changes to the agricultural negotiations in 2013. A working group composed, inter alia, of: the parties shall participate, shall be reduced. I support that. I think that's very important, and as I said, it's also supporting in the north. The district profile is strengthened and it is important that it continues. For there are many areas where development is particularly worrying. This has been mentioned by several speakers before me, so I shall not repeat it, but there is great cause for concern in a number of areas. In the notification of agriculture and the notification of the north, the government decides that it should be invested in arctic agriculture. In order to ensure better development in North Norway, the investment in Arctic agriculture shall be strengthened. It is important to facilitate the adaptation of the use of instruments to regional disparities. A review of the national schemes and the additional subsidies to Arctic agriculture is part of this work and the establishment of an area-based effort within the Agricultural Development Fund (LUF) through the agricultural establishment. It is important to take this further, too, in order to precisely profile the regional inequalities and the opportunities that lie in the fact that there are special conditions around the country. I have noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party, through their comments on the agricultural settlement, are opposed to farmers having their own negotiations with the state, and will take it in as part of the state budget. I consider that to be a risk project for the peasantry, and it is unacceptable for the Central Party to support it. Here the organisations must be supported, who will also call the negotiating institute. In addition, the Right Party and the Advance Party want a structuralisation of agriculture and a large cut in budget support. In addition, they will remove import barriers. This clearly shows that the Right and Advance Party will remove Norwegian agriculture as we know it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3390	Government parties, and in particular the Centre Party, have gone a long way in claiming that income trends in agriculture have been historically good in the last six years, and indeed almost unique. It's enough to take a hard time. It is quite true that the annual increase in income per farm has been around the figure in the agricultural budget. NOK 120000 on average for the period. From the government team, there has repeatedly been a point made that it represents a growth of something less than 75 pst. What government parties avoid mentioning in this context is that the wage trend for all groups of employees has also been strong in recent years. It appears from the table on page 40 of the Proposition that, according to the Technical Calculation Committee for the statement of income, the increase in the income of employees as a whole has been slightly above NOK 110 000 in the same period. Thus, the difference in the increase in income between self-employed persons in agriculture and normal employees is approximately NOK 10 000, divided over six years. It represents a difference for the agricultural benefit of about 50 %. NOK 1 650 per year, or NOK 133 per month, before tax. So in recent years, Norwegian farmers have been able to enjoy affording a Grandiosa and a bottle of Cola more than an average employee every month, plus the gas sweat that is needed to get on the bow, as we say on the North Sea. Something is, but in our opinion, it is not easy to use superlatives in the dialogue with the agricultural industry. If we put the cost growth on inputs like diesel, fertilizer and power feed in the calculation, I'm really worried that both the Grandiosa, the Cola and the gasoline chain are going to disappear as a dog for the sun. I have here a graphic representation that is taken from the nutritional task to a rather typical farm with milk and meat production in the north-west. The farm has a milk quota of 155 000 litres and delivers approx. 8 tonnes of beef per year. Both the user and the driver are anonymous, but I can assure you that this is a skilled and hard-working operator in the industry. Graphs show a significant increase in income in recent years, among other things. due to increased milk quota, but also to an even stronger increase in costs. The consequence of this use is that the operating result is clearly weaker now than it was in 2007. I would like to give the Council a copy and ask that he give an assessment of how cost developments have generally affected the alleged historically good income growth of those who are engaged in coarse-feed-based milk and meat production in agriculture. So finally, a comment on Terje Aasland's claims that under the Bondevik II government, there should have been almost catastrophic agricultural conditions. With Stoltenberg as Prime Minister, the peasant organizations have broken twice. It never happened to Bondevik as Prime Minister. In other words: 2-0 to Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3403	Earlier in the debate, the representative fleet in the accusing law said that the Council of State scared the peasants across the country with the policies of the Right and the Progressive Party. I really have to say – and that’s from my point of view a natural thing, but still – that today I’m very happy that there’s a red-green majority in this room. Just think what it had represented for Norway, whether the Agriculture Policy of the Right Party and the Advance Party had been adopted here tonight. I don't think we understand what that would mean for the settlement and the possibility of using the whole country. However, the political crusades of the right-wing parties, and in particular the systematic political crusades of the Advance Party, against the fact that the State should play a significant role in relation to agriculture, are historic. It's been completely systematic, and we see examples of this. If that policy had been pursued over several decades, Norwegian agriculture would have been quite different from today. Why can't they just say that it's a market-driven agricultural they want? It is, of course, a huge political and educational paradox that the representatives, I would say particularly from the Progress Party, such as Tjældal and Bredvold, but also partly from the Right, accuse the government of the development of income and working conditions in agriculture, while they themselves will cut significantly in it. This has to be revealed, and it has to be said as I say now, because they are going to replace it with a market-driven agriculture, which will destroy the possibility of settlement across the country and the small and efficient, good use. You want to release the farmer, they say. Yes, free to the market. What will be the situation with regard to food safety and Norwegian food production and housing? We know what that's going to be like. There will be significant centralisation. That is why this is a crucial political debate. It is very good that there is a majority in this Chamber who see a completely different development as necessary for agriculture and for Norway. The voters all over the country, especially in what is called the districts, must really see this, because in a short time this will, of course, destroy agriculture as we know it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3408	Agricultural policy is difficult. When Per Harald Grue was the Departmental Council in the Ministry of Agriculture, it was said that it was only he and the Spring Lord who understood the agricultural regulations. The following year it was said that now the Spring Lord had given up, so it was only Per Harald Grue again. I would say that the debate in this Chamber today has partly shown that not everyone has the same insight into what is happening in agriculture. But it is not just in Norway that we have problems in agriculture. The EU is also struggling with its agricultural policy. There's several reasons for that. Let's look at the story: 100 years ago we had food shortages in large parts of the world, also in the Western world. Since then we have had a formidable efficiency in the agricultural sector, thanks to new and good fertiliser products and machinery. That is why we have overproduction today. The offer on the world market is a surplus product that cannot be stored and stored over a long period of time. Therefore, we should not be led to believe that in Norway we are going to produce food at world market prices. In addition, we have a number of regulations in Norway that few other countries have. Therefore, there is no doubt that production in Norway is becoming more expensive. The right fully accepts that food production is more expensive in Norway. In relation to the pay level we have here in the country, we must agree that food is not directly animal. But you have to look forward and think differently: is it possible to do this in a smarter way? That's what we think in the right. When my neighbor came home from the agricultural fair in Denmark, he said: Yes, yes, it is now only garden tools we have here in Norway, and in addition it is only gardens we have. Now it is soon no longer for gardening equipment to be purchased. That is, you're covering a significantly larger area when you're dealing with your Earth. The right has long thought that we have to allow land to be disaggregated in agriculture, so that we can get bigger farms. Today is 40 pst. of the land cultivated, tenure land. It's unfortunate. We believe that those who want to grow the land and be in agriculture must be allowed to do so, and that those who want to sell must also be allowed to do so. Fortunately, the government has partly met us at that point. It may be that the Right has put the list high enough in terms of savings in red tape, but there is no doubt that the recent increase in red tape is significant. I have experienced that myself in connection with my own farm. I respect the fact that the farmers had broken the negotiations this year. It's difficult – especially in the milk sector, I've experienced it myself, and that's why I quit. My son said that this I will not do 365 days a year when I am going to take over. I believe that if nothing is done in the short term, we have a very rapid milk shortage in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3420	This spring we have experienced that the peasant organizations have broken negotiations with the state, and the farmers have marched throughout the country, not in protest against the Progress Party and the Right, but against the Red-Green Government and its agricultural policy, and not least against the Centre Party. I think it is a strong signal when, for the first time in a very long time, the Norwegian Bond team has broken the agricultural negotiations when a sister organisation is in government. As one of the few active farmers here at Stortinget, I share much of the criticism coming. The red-green parties are flying the false flag of agricultural policy. They say that they fight for every farmer, and that it's a goal to maintain the industry as it is today. It's a little forward-looking. The objective of agricultural policy, which has also been supported by the red-green parties since the 1970s, has, of course, been to significantly reduce the number of farmers. There has been a significant technical revolution in agriculture, particularly in the 1970s, which enabled greater efficiency and greater use, coupled with a high demand for labour in other parts of society. That is what has led to the situation we have today, when we now have approx. 43 000 farmers who produce much more than much more did before. This has been a wild policy both from the Center Party and from other parties that have been in government. Despite a reduction in the number of farmers, from approx. 200,000 in the 1960s to 43 000 today, we have an agriculture all over the country. Similar technical developments are taking place in my view in agriculture today. The milking robot, fully automated feeding, joint farms, reduced tillage and much more efficient and larger tools and machines make agriculture have to change at significant speeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3433	Norwegian agricultural policy has been high on the agenda this spring. I understand that the industry had high agricultural expectations based on the ambitious agricultural message that was presented earlier this year. I think, like many others, that it is a pity that there was a breach in the negotiations. But at the same time, I am pleased that the unique Norwegian agricultural negotiating system stands both when the negotiations lead to agreement, and when – as this year – they end up in breach. The negotiating system is decisive to meet the policy objectives of agricultural policy. I'm particularly busy what we usually call a diverse and differentiated usage structure. My own homeland, Møre and Romsdal, is a Norway in a thumbnail of the structure – from the large to the small farms, in the broad areas, in the fjords and in the plural valleys. These are all equally important to solve the task of producing more food for an increasing population. The approach we have in the Centre Party to agricultural policy is among other things. Firstly, based on the fact that people need food, and always need food; secondly, that food availability is not stable; thirdly, that national food production is necessary for the highest possible level of self-sufficiency; and fourthly, that the country must use the necessary means to ensure a living agriculture throughout the country. That the government strengthens the district profile, among others. in coastal and fjord routes in the West, are good news. The consumer has great confidence in Norwegian agriculture, and fortunately I perceive it as becoming more and more consumers concerned that we have to keep up with Norwegian food production. However, consumers must also have confidence in the other parts of the value chain for food – they must be able to trust that there is healthy competitive conditions and openness about power. This I think is one of several good reasons to sort out a law of good trade in the grocery trade, for which the majority of the vote goes in favour. I wonder why not the Right Party and the Progress Party are interested in lawmaking that we should leave the market in power, and why they are not interested in it being pointed out that it should be done at the same time on fair and equal terms. The food selection outlines a very clear development in which the food chain’s brands reflect small and medium-sized producers – despite the fact that consumers are asking for more shortages, and agriculture is ready to deliver. I must note that the Right Party and the Advance Party's proposal that the government should intensify the development of niche and special agricultural products becomes a little funny, in this context. On behalf of both farmers and consumers, I look forward to the rapid implementation of the Food Chains Commission, so that we can put in place a law of good trade, for the benefit of both consumers and farmers. Then I look forward to next year's agricultural policy, where the goal must be to achieve a good negotiating result that follows the ambitions of the agricultural message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3448	This has been a turbulent spring. Following the presentation by the government of the agricultural notification, where a desire to ensure income development in line with other groups based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005, the expectations for the follow-up through the agricultural settlement were high. I find that the expectations were not met, but I am also sorry that the organisations did not choose to negotiate. In the event of a breach, it is customary for the offer to go unchanged to Stortinget. The custom here in the house is that it does not change the offer, but the offer is adopted as it is. So the Storting is sovereign to do whatever it wants. But freedom and power to do what we want also require that we have the ability to think both in the short and long term. There are several outside Stortingen who have arranged for us to increase the scope of the offer. I beg them to note that none of the parties do so; do not sail the Christian People's Party. The Norwegian model is unique, and the majority want to keep it. Organisations are currently negotiating parts of their framework conditions directly with the State. If we were to change the offer today, and raise it, the way to the Right and the Progress Party's recipe is in the setting – where they say they are basically concerned that some industries are negotiating their framework conditions directly with the state, regardless of normal budgetary processes – very briefly. My fear is that with their solution, we quickly come into a system where support for agriculture becomes a clean budget line. Why should the State negotiate with the organisations if the Storting does what they want anyway? Then I get the disappointment this year. Seeing that there has been a better development of income with this government does not help when agricultural forecasts are not met. And yet it is important today to notice in the clear political divides. They're clearer than for a long time. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, will ensure the development of incomes and social conditions for farmers in line with other groups and further develop agricultural income and welfare policies based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005. This goal is not behind the Right and Advance Party. They want something completely different. The majority of these policies are based on the protection of Norwegian food production, and thus also the Norwegian food industry. This means that we must have import protection on individual goods, as the Norwegian Food and Drug Workers' Association said at Bondetinget since today. The Party for Progress and the Right, on the other hand, expects import protection to lapse and will therefore radically change the structure of today's agriculture, even in the interests of the food industry, as they say. It's completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3463	The representative Kolberg asks with great patos what it would mean if the Right Policy were adopted here today. Let me say once again that we are actually substituting for the proposal that exists, I have said that once before – so that the representative, Mr Kolberg too, can bring it with him. It is possible that he thinks about the treatment of the agricultural notification, where we had a number of other proposals for the Norwegian agricultural policy scheme – what that would have meant. I think to a large extent it could have meant more production and increased profitability. The representative Kolberg is the very incarnation of those who scare with the Right and the Advance Party. All credit to the representative Lundtigen who looks across this and sees that scaring others is a diversion. He goes to the core, he goes to his own, and he knows that frustration out there is due to the policy pursued by Minister of Agriculture Breck and his people. That's what he's pointing at. He does not point to the roundabout by shooting at anyone else. It is in his opinion too simple. I think it was a very thought-provoking post. I have a few more reflections about the Aasland representative, the committee leader, and this with the agricultural bureaucracy. If Aasland reads the comment a little bit more carefully, he'll see that there's also something about simplification there. He can then contact his Minister of Industry, who has identified a form fields – a burden for the companies of 54 billion. In Norway, of which he has set a target of about 10 billion. kr. Our neighbouring countries are several times higher, i.e. perhaps 10–15 billion should be seen here in Norway. kr. Not everything is agricultural, but very many farms in Norway are agricultural, and, as Lars Myraune rightly pointed out, there is a significant form field, bureaucracy, in agriculture, and it is constantly increasing. Only in the years from 2005 until now has there been a sharp decline in the number of establishments, in the number of farmers, while the total of red tape has remained silent both in terms of its cost and in terms of the number of people. So two words about the chain selection: as far as the Matkette Committee is concerned, there are warnings against this both from the Ministry of Justice and the Competition Authority. In addition, many within the law say that there are other laws that can also be used in this way. I think it is a matter of concern if the Stortinge will adopt laws that will ensure that the free contracting partners deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3476	I have some comments on some of the issues that have been raised in the debate. One theme that has been raised is that some people seem to be different from focusing on a stronger district profile and increasing food production in Norway. I will say that is completely wrong closure. The main basis for increasing food production, and for having a large food production in Norway, is to maintain the cultivated area. It is the case with the topography in Norway that if we are to maintain the cultivated area, we must also take care of the small and medium-sized ones – which are often combined use. There are relatively large parts of the cultivated area, both in the county I represent, and in some other counties, which will disappear if we do not take care of the rural profile of agriculture. So adding to just the big, effective usage will lead to a holistic reduction in food production in Norway. What is needed to meet the objectives of increased food production in Norway is thus to bet on a strong district profile. The alternative is an increase in food production in some key areas and the total of Norway will fall. Then I have some comments on the Progress Party: we might say, with good will, that they have developed a rhetoric about agriculture, but saying that they have a policy on agriculture is to work hard on. To the extent that they have a policy, he is about to release the market, so that they move all agricultural production to a few central strata in the country. Finally, I would just like to say a little bit about those who are trying to make a number out of the fact that there have been violations under the red-green government, but not under other governments. This might have more to do with expectations. That's where I think the Left is right -- the bourgeois parties have managed to turn their expectations so high that the farmers give up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3487	What should have been a party day for the Center Party seems rather to be a ‘the next day’. The government failed in the pre-game. The government also added the expectations in the agricultural notification and made the first offer – an offer that someone can rightly respond to when it is similar to offering to housekeepers. The government felt that it was a pity and looked for the agricultural organizations to break up. I think the government, and the government representatives here today, should have been more concerned about why. Because the unpleasant thing about that question is that it would point back to the government itself. Then I hear that the representative Kolberg is creating a scare picture of the agricultural policy that Right would pursue. There is good reason to remember that centralisation is increasing, the number of single-dwelling farms with slightly more, increasing, and the proportion of land rented has the same development — an increase. So this is the government's policy for the last seven years. This is a result of government policy, and this is how it keeps using its own scare propaganda instead of trying to make it so that the Right stands for something that would become a part of agricultural policy. There are many representatives from the government parties who today have given different interpretations of the Right Policy. I think it might be wise sometimes to go to the source and be despicable from it. I would like to remind you that the Right wants to maintain the agricultural agreement and see it in the context of the State budget. The farmers are self-employed, and then you are dependent on stable framework conditions. It's been obvious to the right all along. The changes needed to increase the profitability of Norwegian farmers must be gradual and well-considered. It'll be a guarantor for that right there. Agricultural debates in Stortinget are very good. They concern the whole country, they concern many people, and very many are affected. I also think it is a very good opportunity to show that there is a well-founded and solid alternative to what is the red-green agricultural policy – a good agricultural policy that creates opportunities for value creation. The right will have a profitable and viable agriculture in all parts of the country. Then we need new ideas, new solutions for agriculture. It also means that budget support for agriculture should be more efficient in order to achieve a higher level of production and profitability, and that quota limits and concession limits for single and combined production should be removed as far as possible. The elimination of taxes on wealth on working capital, the elimination of inheritance taxes and the introduction of a fund provisioning system for individual enterprises will be among the good things that are important precisely for creating profitability and drivefulness in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3502	Agriculture is important for Norway. It is important to maintain housing and jobs in rural areas, but most importantly, food safety and food production themselves are important. We in the Center Party are quite clear that all countries have both the right and the obligation to produce food for their own people. That's the way it has to be in this country too. In agriculture, it has been so every year that one takes over the land after the last generation and has it to be borrowed in its own time. The aim of a farmer is to pass it on to the next generation in better condition than when one took over. It is no longer obvious that the next generation will take over the farm and want to bet on agriculture. This is made visible by the changes in the structure of agriculture and all the uses that are dropped each year. But there is something positive in this picture: it seems that the big community values Norwegian food production in a different way than before and sees the need for us to be as self-sufficient as possible with food here in the country. There has been a positive trend in income in recent years, but at a close enough level. The agricultural message provided by the government, which was adopted a few months ago, promises well. An increase in food production of 20 pst. is an important signal to farmers that the big community will invest in agriculture. Then came the farm business. Norwegian farmers had expected a better offer. They were disappointed, and the negotiations were unfortunately broken. I have a great understanding of the frustration of the farmers. The Norwegian farmer really deserves to be paid better for the important job she or he does. So why do we still choose not to send the agricultural agreement back to the government or put into the framework during the treatment here in the Stortinget? Well, that's to keep the important negotiating institute. This also wants farmers' organisations. They want to call the negotiating institute and don't want to risk it. It came out in the consultation round. Parts of the opposition are raiding with the negotiating institute, and it is quite clear that they would prefer to remove it. Clearly, they want the Storting to determine how much agriculture should receive each year, without allowing organisations to come to the negotiating table, and at least this is not something they want. It is important to remember that today we have a majority of polls. The two parties to the Right and the Advance Party want a completely different agricultural policy – with large cuts, where smaller units do not have the right to life, and where agriculture in the districts and in the mountain areas will be ruined. The government parties have pointed out what we want in the agricultural notice. We want income development, we want to go through customs, support agricultural investment and get food power back to producers. The centre piece will press this work forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3530	The Christian People's Party represents an active agricultural policy. For the Christian People's Party, this is about being good administrators, taking care of our land and taking care of our country. I represent a state that has 1.3 pst. of the area of the country, but a total of 7,4 pst. of the agricultural area of Norway located within the Easternfold region. Eastfold is an important agricultural group. We are an important state of the food industry. We have 4,000 jobs. They're innovative. They're forward. The Christian People's Party values the work that farmers do today. That is why we want to be involved in closing the income gap that farmers have for other working groups. But we also want some new farmers for tomorrow – that there is a generation of farmers who want to take over when those who run today want to lay down. Then it is important to have a good recruitment policy. Being good managers is also about increasing food production, which is an overall objective in this room. We want to close the revenue gap, we want to increase food production. Then there's one thing farmers need – it's the earth that farmers are going to grow the food or the grass on. In Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012, Welcome to the table, we talked about a change of pace. I understand that the farmers are frustrated by the offer they received from the government. We have so much understanding of this frustration that today we will ask the government to reopen the negotiations, by sending the matter back. In this debate that we have now had over the past few hours, many from the Central Party have also had an understanding of this frustration. But what does that help? Farmers, like all of us, live on heads and ears. Getting an understanding of frustration doesn't help much. With my seven years as a big-time representative, the biggest demonstration I've ever seen in these seven years is farmers'. The government has failed Norwegian food production, it was on the tabs I saw most of. It is – and should be – strong diet. The peasants expected a change of pace, the government has talked about a change of pace – but unfortunately we don't have a change of pace. If this is the follow-up to the big message Welcome to the table, which we have today to deal with through this settlement, I think few of us want to see the next steps of this follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3541	I would like to stress that conversion is necessary, and conversion is good. However, it is essential to clarify how a person changes. Migration in Norwegian agriculture is now leading to poor food safety, and it is in the wrong direction. So the conversion is going to be 6 pst. labour productivity growth per year. So you have to double the output every eleven years to keep track of, without reducing the income gap to other groups. There should be a cross-thinking of the representative Kolberg, who knows the trade movement, because there is a need for productivity growth to be shared by the employer and the employee. The conduct of a national agricultural policy requires a high level of import protection. According to Input. S. No 65 for 1994-1995: ‘In each case it is the rate of duty which gives the highest amount of customs duty to be applied at the time of entry.’; This is essential in order to ensure some of the core elements of the red-green alliance, namely decent relations between workers. It goes to the core of red-green cooperation. It is also at the heart of red-green cooperation that the mode of farming is such that when prices increase, it is also necessary to have power-feed prices which make use of grasses profitable. This is not the case today, therefore Norway is growing again. The wording used by the Council of State against the critics of today's agricultural policy at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Bondelag at Lillehammer yesterday is not worthy of a State Council. Instead of meeting the criticism with debate, it is to be closed, and those who debate the course of the government and the Ministry of Agriculture are to be stigmatised by being knowledgeless, professionally-politically remote from reality, and not understanding the technical conditions on which the agricultural agreement is based. I would just like to say briefly that the problem for the government is not the critics, but that the voters recognize themselves in the criticism by the fact that more and more people also outside the towns understand that something does not work as it is said. The Prime Minister wants more transparency and democracy. This requires a change of words and clear opinions. The National Audit Board delivered its report, Document 3:12 for 2009-2010, which specifically points out the lack of consistency between the stated objectives and what one will do, versus what has actually happened. Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo has done an exemplary job. What happens is that farmers go over to become landowners. It will also lead to the red-green alliance moving towards a very demanding time, to say it carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3557	The last one has to call a real blue road from the representative Lundteg to his own minister. It has been interesting to follow this debate today. Clearly, attack is the best defense for the government party. Good explanations from Right's Agricultural Spokesman The Fleet enters one ear and out the other at the government party's representatives. As the representative Fleet also repeated in this debate, and which is also in the Right's alternative agricultural message, the protection of imports is important for Norwegian agricultural policy – and that there must be a market regulator in agriculture. A thorough review of this complex system does not mean that it should be discontinued. He also pointed out that the right would like to continue the agricultural negotiations, but one would like to see them in conjunction with other budget lines and that they would therefore follow the usual budgetary procedures. One must be quite daunted to claim that this is a liquidation. In all these three areas, the government party, and in particular the Center Party, the pure scare propaganda to get behind the Right's policy and to get the focus away from its own lifting break. One of the events that has shaped this spring is the powerful and comprehensive protests that have come from farmers and farmers' organizations against the agricultural situation of the year. It is not so strange when representatives from the Central Party and the other government parties have traveled around land and beaches promising gold and green forests in connection with the presentation of the new agricultural message. It is not surprising that the peasants feel that the government party is failing when one sees the contrasts to what was presented as an offer in the agricultural negotiations. Lifting break is one of the most important things, and the massive reactions that have come from the farmers' side are easy to understand. On the website of NRK Sogn and Fjordane, we could read this week that new figures show that sheep farmers in the West have a gross salary of SEK 57 an hour, and that the average farmer in the West spends NOK 107 an hour. These are figures from the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research. Another look at the same site indicates that a couple who bought a garden 13 years ago do not now see that they have any future as farmers. So this is the result after seven years with the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party in government. There is no doubt that there is a dramatic situation for many farmers, and that if there is no change in this, it will look dark for the agricultural industry, both in the districts and in the central districts. Therefore, it is also crucial that a new agricultural policy is put in place that strengthens the farmer as a self-employed person, that gives him greater power over his own future, and that strengthens private ownership, and not least that the farmer meets a government that keeps what is promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3576	Now I've been listening to the debate, and I've been wondering if you've ever read the Riksrevision report, which describes a host of objectives and instruments. One of them beats the other in half, and we don't know what works and doesn't work. Then I've been listening to most of the red-green politicians who want to do this. They describe an alternative of simplification, clean-up and red tape as a disaster. Then I join Lundtigen: It's throwing blues in the eyes of the industry. I dare remind you that the only time we have reached the income target in the agricultural settlement was in 1983 under a Right-Registration. In 2005, the level of investment in agriculture was on the right track. It is because when self-employed people can get the impression that they might be able to afford their own, they automatically get optimism. So here's a lot to deal with. Just to continue with Lundtigen: Everything is obviously not as rosy as most other red-green speakers have stood and said from this pulpit. He began to describe Norway as about the whole of Norway as having a vascular disorder. In any case, it justifies the right-wing proposal for the agricultural notification to begin capitalising. I noticed that it was answered from the government that an increased subsidy would be granted. But then, too, we need a new agricultural policy. The ministry lacks a sense of reality, and there is an abuse of power that the industry will not tolerate, and there are limits to what you want to accept. We're not going to write 2006. It's not six months since the red-green government came into position. It's been seven years. You've been sitting and running for seven years. This is a description given by a central agricultural politician from the Red-Greens. It's quite alarming. I've talked about productivity several times in this room. It was also interesting to hear Lundtegen's lecture to Kolberg. Because the farmer is actually nice. He's innovative. He contributes to an incredible productivity growth, which few other industries do. But it's also like Kielland Asmyhr says, you have a policy that wants to keep the industry exactly as it is. What happens to a fast-growing industry that has the same area as you've always had? That means people have to get out of the industry. That's the only way to take it out, except that you can produce a little bit more per dean. We've never taken that seriously. I guess we're getting closer to actually having to take it seriously. The farmer is good, he's innovative and wants to do a good job. The last place you take it is in the main hall, as this debate sounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3588	Let me first say that the farmers' organisations have not called for the policy of the Right and the Advance Party. It should be remembered by these parties, including the representative of Gunnar Gundersen. On the contrary, organisations have strongly warned against this policy. And it's these parties Christian People's Party now considering cooperating with. We have a hard time understanding that. So over to the theme that we in the Center Party are concerned with: the Customs question raises a lot of commitment in the Center Party. Under the current WTO agreement, Norway has access to either the krona duty or the percentage duty for the main agricultural products. It is therefore particularly important that the space for action be used to ensure the proper functioning of import protection in the future, as the red-green majority in the Committee underlines in its comments. The centre party and the other red-green parties ask the government in the setting to start a law work for good commercial practice as a follow-up to the Food Chains Committee's setting. Today, four food chains dominate Norway. So we're doing 99.9 pst. of all our food at one of these four chains. The daily food chains not only run stores, they also run all kinds of groceries and kiosks, petrol and service shops. In addition, they own a number of cafés and restaurant chains. We shop with them every day, and the Norway Group makes money on almost every other piece of food we eat. The centre party therefore wants a new law that strengthens consumers and suppliers against the concentration of power of the large food chains. The Right Party and the Advance Party do not want such a law. There is therefore good reason to ask why these batches have a greater commitment to the food giants, who make billions of dollars to push the price to the farmer as low as possible, than to consumers and food producers. Farm organisations, LO and the Consumer Council provide clear support for this legislative initiative. From the centre party we're concerned that such a law is put forward, and it's urgent to put it in place in the current period. The government is committed to strengthening the district profile. It implies a review of the zone boundaries for different forms of grants. Such a review shall be carried out in 2012 and shall further clarify the appropriateness of making changes, with a view to delivering the work involved in the agricultural negotiations in 2013. Particular attention has been paid to the areas facing challenges and emphasis is placed on investing in Arctic agriculture and mountain farming. Nine out of ten Nordics are in order to maintain an agricultural sector of at least the same scale as today. This proportion has never been higher. There should be no doubt that the Centre Party is in line with the Norwegian population here, and we will continue to work for agriculture, to strengthen the income of the farmer and to strengthen the importance of agriculture — every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3610	Agriculture has many functions in society, and it intervenes in many areas, such as the environment, climate and energy. Each of these areas could best hold an article about alone, but one can summarize them in one theme, and there's a forest. Forestry in Norway is an industry that, together with the wood processing industry, had a gross production value of 44 billion in 2010. kr, i.e. 5.8 pst. of the total turnover of the Norwegian industry. There are historically large numbers of cubes with forest on their roots – in fact, it is the largest in modern times. It is therefore important that one has a landfill proposal that will facilitate the strengthening of the forest’s contribution to the creation of value throughout the country and the achievement of important objectives in energy, climate and environmental issues. Here, bioenergy will be an area for which it is important to focus and facilitate. It is important here to put in place infrastructure, so that one can increase the use of bioenergy, which in turn will lead to one being able to exploit forests, prevent growth and benefit from waste remaining in the forest. Coastal forest use is a cooperation between coastal areas – from West Agder to Finnmark. For several years, they have been working on a side effect on the harvesting of timber along the coast – this is because there are particular challenges with road cover, difficult terrain, a fragmented ownership structure, a lack of developed industry, etc. For this reason, the use of the Coastal Forest has been allocated a greater proportion of the normal supply than the objective criteria were to be met. In addition, there is also a specific bonus. This has produced results in a side effect. Forestry is also an industry where a plant goes from one plant to another. If we are to maintain and further develop production, we must have an increase in new plantings. When Sponheim was Minister of Agriculture, a toolbox was emptied when it came to developing forestry. We're now building it up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3625	Let me start by saying that what is most gratifying to me in this debate on agriculture is that the recent communication on agriculture and food, which has been adopted, has a great deal of support, not least in the industry itself. There is no doubt that the new communication on agriculture and food is ambitious. That's why it's also important for the industry, and that's why it's also important for the Center Party. The objectives were supported by an overall industry, which appeared to have been consulted recently on the agricultural situation in the Committee's proceedings. No one in the hearing criticised the objectives and direction, but criticises the dosage — how much drug is used. It's kind of an honest disagreement, I think. I take note that we have not managed to get it this time. The objectives set out are, inter alia, the following: that we should increase production — as far as possible based on Norwegian resources. We're going to have a food production across the country. In fact, we have never produced more food, with fewer actors and with fewer hands, but it has at least been a major productivity improvement in Norwegian agriculture. Then we can talk about it as a big problem, but it's also a positive side of it that you've been able to use resources in times of change. The reason for this is that people want to use new technologies and new forms of work – and in this way we use resources even better. It's clear that in many areas, we're going to be part of the production environment for dilution. That is why we want to use budgetary resources to ensure the rural aspect of agricultural policy. The fact is, over the six years we've had an agreement, before the break of the year, we've increased the budget by about three billion. kr. About 800 million. kr is a negotiated gain in the context of the negotiated negotiations that have been conducted. What is important here, and which is important in the context of the big dividing lines in the political discussion, is that the Right Party and the Progress Party will remove the distribution mechanisms for which we spend the budget money today. They don't want to make sure we're going to have production across the country. They want to remove quotas, and they want to release agriculture more freely. It's a policy that I don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3636	It was the post of the representative of Bredvold that got me to take the word again, because I am fooling at why the Progress Party and the representative of Bredvold say that unfortunately there are many uses that are being laid down in the districts. The Progress Party itself says it wants structuralisation. You want composition and employment to be no longer a goal. How is it that the Party of Progress will remove import protection, and then Norwegian-produced food from milk, meat and cheese will increase? And settlement across the country: What kind of tool is the Progress Party going to use? The market? The representative of Kolberg was quite right. In field-by-field, district-right means shall be removed, says the Advance Party. In a matter later today, it should also be settled. So it's impossible to understand what Right really wants – even in this case, I'm going to say. Would you like territorial measures, or would they not? And what kind of district law tool will the Right will absolutely not agree to remove in a government cooperation with the Progress Party, which will remove everything? To Loodmeal, from the Right and the Sogn and the Fjords, I almost have to ask: how many dollars per hour would the farmers in Sogn and the Fjords have been sitting again if it had been a government with the Right and the Advance Party for seven years? Finally, it is not that a breach of negotiations is a yes and welcome to the Progress Party and the Right from the farmers' side. As the representative Lillian Hansen saw very well, it said: I didn't see a single poster during the demonstration train where it said, "Out with the red-green, and in with the blue".
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3649	This has been a strange debate in many ways. We are now discussing an agricultural settlement where there is a breach between the agricultural organisations and those in government. So it's the red-green ones that haven't delivered. It is not that the Right Party and the Advance Party have been in some position to negotiate at all, but you can sometimes get the impression when you sit in the hall and listen to the red-green crusade. Here, too, some expressions are used in the debate when creating scare pictures – as structuralisation. After a lot of effort, we were able to calculate that three uses per day were used seven days a week – provided that Sundays too were used down – 21 were used in the week. I haven't figured it out, but it tells me there's going to be some use in a year. Then the red-greens might have to be able to tell me: what kind of rationalization is this when we lay down as many with such a fantastic agricultural policy as you deliver? The farmers who have to lay down these uses, aren't they counting on? Aren't they in their picture? So to the representative of Kolberg, who is so deeply concerned about people living in the districts. From his point of view, he said, an agricultural policy from the Right and the Progress Party would be in the process of raging the districts. No, it's actually not like that. What's about to rage over the districts – I can do this a little bit about it, because I live there – is the central management we're experiencing today. It is the guerrilla that is totally exposed to democratic processes, that binds large areas where people could have taken care of, could have developed nourishment and could have made up for themselves. Protection and weakening of local self-determination and the special ability of the red-greens to trample on ownership is the big problem for people living in the districts – not agricultural policy Right and the Progress Party can come at some point. It will set the farmer free, not free to a market to be chewed and then spit out. No. Free from bureaucracy and free from central government. There are a lot of nutritionists who will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3658	The President hopes that the concept of "defence" will not be used next time from the Spokesman's Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3661	The ideological tabular of the labour movement, the representative of Kolberg, goes up to the great heights and asks whether the opposition will leave agriculture to the market. Then my question is back to the same Kolberg: What's wrong with the market? What has created the great wealth that we are experiencing today in Norway? What wealth the market has given to owners, but not least to employees in other parts of Norwegian business, who do not experience the central management and bureaucracy to which agriculture is subject. The members of the Liaison Committee present here have now, after three years in the Committee, learned and looked beyond what success stories Norwegian industry has become in many ways and how world leaders it is. Kolberg should have had that too, he who has a background from the industry before he became a party bureaucrat. This is precisely why agriculture needs to learn from other industries and businesses. Agriculture must be subject to the same rules of play as the rest of our business, in order to create the same success stories as we see in other parts of our business. That's why it's going to be the gallimatias that the Stortinge will decide that each farmer will have 13 000 more dollars in salary next year. We in agriculture know that NOK 13 000 does not last long when the tractor is going to the workshop. That is why we must end up with these kinds of customs calculations – annual estimates, income calculations – and rather pursue an industrial policy that leads to liberalisation, more freedom for the individual, less bureaucracy, etc., which has created the success story in other parts of the economy of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3670	The President understands that one is in a phase of the debate where one is very engaged, but the President encourages the representatives to stay within the parliamentary terms. For example, the president would not say ‘party bureaucrat’, nor would he refer to other people’s speeches as ‘customs’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3673	I would like to comment on the previous speaker, who said that we have to lay down the same framework conditions for agriculture as for the rest of the business world. There's a slight difference: you can't move the lawn, you can't move the production as easily as you can in the rest of the business. But I'm going to go to what I should say. In the fall we had a so-called butter crisis. At the same time, we had the worst grain harvest in decades. Why there was too little butter for consumers was due to several things, that people were on the slenderer – they bought more butter than usual – but it was mainly due to the fact that the regulator did not have enough time to keep them out of butter. It was also due to the fact that the cow's sea was fed so poorly last year that the butter percentage in the milk was lower than usual. One might say a lot about the butter crisis, but at least it tells us one thing: this is a living production. Regulating quantities takes time. Changes in the quality of feed have consequences for by-products. But to the seventh and last, the butter crisis is a reminder that Norwegian milk production is at a break point. There are fewer and fewer producers of milk in Norway. It is a costly production in terms of both capital and human effort. The cow shall be milked 365 days a year. Lack of butter is a warning to us that the profitability of the production has to rise. It must answer more than today to deliver milk. The answer is not what the Right Party and the Advance Party want to facilitate imports. If we lose milk production in the districts, the living agriculture and housing are confused, which we want to have all over the country. We've seen the same trend on the meat side. Nortura reports a defect in meat. It's not profitable enough to produce meat on marginal areas. In addition, there is a limit on how far you can drive with a tractor on diesel to collect feed before the win is made. The decline in meat production is also a result of a decline in milk production, as dams disappear. That is why it is good for the government to work out a strategy for meat production. Agriculture is a long-term industry. We have to reverse the negative production trend, but it's not done in a hand turn. We have to increase production so that we can at the same time take care of the structure we have today. Factory production is not the answer for Norway. For the food situation in the world, with a growing population, neither is the answer to importing food from those who need it. We have a right and a duty to produce as much of our own food as possible. We have not delivered as expected in this settlement. However, in contrast to the Right and the Advance Party, at least the majority have a goal of maintaining agriculture throughout the country and increasing production and income. We do that through three i's: we need a strong import protection. We need income. It has to throw off investing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3690	The representative Fleet said that I surrounded myself with pathos in my post. That was nice – but hardly very nice meant. He claimed again that we are dealing with horrors. No, the representative Fleet and President, we're not dealing with scares, but we're working out something that's very realistic and important to come up with in this debate. The question is: why are we going to have negotiations along the lines that we have today? Well, it's about something that has a dimension beyond this, and that this hall, in my opinion, should really take over. Firstly, it is about the recognition of agricultural organisations in the Norwegian community, which have contributed to both agricultural production and stability in society, and which means a great deal to the further development of Norwegian agriculture. Starting a negotiating regime that refers to the State budget is another type of negotiation. Why has the Norwegian system, as it has evolved over decades, been so successful? Well, that's because you've managed this as a national resource. Of course, agricultural production should be profitable. Of course it has to be productive. Of course it has to be effective. But if we're going to have anything in this small country called Norway at all, with so grisly opportunities for agricultural production, the state has to play an important role. That's this pattern the right hand parts will break. It is this that is the serious matter in this discussion. In the short term, it'll break down. The market will not just be a supplement, as they talk about – they are talking about this almost as if the market were to be a supplement. No, the market will take over the control. There will be a centralisation of agriculture that may meet the wishes of the fleet’s representative for productivity and efficiency — but for the few, not for the many. I have to say that I do not understand that representatives, at least on the Right, who represent what we call – with a line under ‘calls’ – district states, dare to stand for such a policy, for example. Representatives of Sogn and Fjordane, as we hear them now. It's a county I know well. I don't understand how they dare to come home and try to argue about it, because it just won't work out – of course. The very last sentence is that they are trying to rely on spring's demonstrations for income for right-hand policies. It is a fundamental misunderstanding, of course. Agriculture organisations are behind the red-green policy after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3706	I have a comment to make to Gunnar Gundersen, who quite rightly said that agriculture and the farmer have been very good and got a good productivity boost. His conclusion was that then someone had to get out of agriculture. In some cases, it may be true, but what he's forgetting is that a lot of places in the country are not topography, so it's possible to combine a lot of uses to give you a use that's big enough to fit the Right Policy. There are a lot of places where productivity has to be taken out in terms of combined use. What is the big mistake of the Right Policy is that they do not have a policy for the combined use of small and medium-sized people in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3711	I want to strike a blow for mountain farming, which I am particularly concerned about. In South Norway, the large mountain region accounts for most of the area: a large geographical area with a low population density and a weaker enterprise than in the rest of South Norway. The majority of the population live in geographically smaller coastal areas. In large parts of the mountain region, agriculture itself is the basis both for other businesses and for housing in general. In these areas, the small, living rural communities and, for the time being, a living agriculture that maintains the cultural landscape are prominent. The population of the urban strata of South Norway spends a lot of time in these mountain areas. A lot of people have cabins there, they use the areas for recreation, hunting, fishing and trips, and appreciate that there are well-kept gardening and cultural landscapes there. But agriculture in these areas is under pressure. Farms here are relatively small. Geography is such that in mountain areas the size of the units can be limited. The mountain farmers are careful. They make use of the resources available, both within and outside the country, and they produce clean food. Here it is meat and milk production, and several places of almond potato production. The exclusion is important as a resource in mountain farming. There is no cleaner meat than the lambs that have been on the outback all summer. The mountain farmers produce an amazing cultural landscape for the big community. What had Norway as a tourist nation been without mountain farming and without agriculture in the rest of the District of Norway? The proposals of the Right and Advance Party's joint comments will reduce income opportunities in agriculture and will lead to much stronger structuralisation and many more closures. This will particularly affect mountain farming. In recent years, the Progress Party has proposed a cut for agriculture of between 6 and 7 billion. kr in its alternative budget. They believe that agricultural policy should no longer be part of rural policy. It will not only hit, but will be disastrous for mountain farming. Mountain farming is important for many. It is important for all those living in these areas, but it is also important for the large community, for the tourism industry and for all those actively using these areas, that we maintain active agriculture. Not least, it is important for food security and food production in this country that we use all available resources for food production. Therefore, it is important to produce food in the mountain areas and to have an agricultural and income policy that also fences on smaller units, as the government through the agricultural notification indicates. Government parties have agreed to maintain a diverse use structure across the country, and there should be room for both smaller and larger use. It is important for mountain farming to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3730	In my previous post, I gave the Council of State a challenge: to say something about the relationship between income and expenditure trends in agriculture. I gave the Council an example that is taken from a use in the North West, and in contact with representatives of the industry, it is the same signals that you get all the time. So I would like to ask the Council of State to answer that question: is it that the expenditure eats up the income?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3737	The representative of Aasland, our committee leader, was concerned with our bureaucracy and had a proposal that went along with it. I used to point out that bureaucracy makes farmers dishonour, and that the farmers are attacking the bureaucracy. But here you want bureaucracy, despite what you say. State Council Giske also says that he should cut the bureaucracy. And then he's wondering if the numbers are right. Then I can say that the numbers are coming, for example. from Linda Klem, who has written a master's degree at the University of Environmental and Bioscience, and Professor Aanesland from the same university. Professionals have come up with this. The Research Manager of the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, Agnar Hegrenes, also stated after their opinions: ‘This estimation does not sound unreasonable.’ This is what the main agricultural professionals have come with – it is as simple as that. It has also not been met by the government at any time. As long as we don't get any counter-arguments and evidence that the numbers we take from scientists and professors are not right, we also have to be able to show them. Then the challenge goes back to the Workers' Party: they can only come back with a counter-proof. So it was interesting to listen to the representatives Lillian Hansen and Ingrid Heggo, who had been present on demonstration, and they had not seen any banners where it said that they would have the Right and the Advance Party. I don't know how well they've seen, but the banners I saw were, Jens, Fy, Jens, and Swindlers. It's something that's taken from that demonstration. Then you might want to draw the lines where you are. Then to Kolberg. He says that if the policy of the Progress Party had been in place for ten years, it would have been a completely different agriculture. Yes, Kolberg is quite right about that. It had been an innovative agriculture where there had actually been a lot more people and more farms. Today, use is reduced – 2,600 farmers end every year. It's with Kolberg's agriculture. It just shows that Kolberg's system is not working. It's gone down, and you might want to take that in. Then to Lundtegen. I think Lundtigen has enormous substance in what he comes with. He's actually so tidy and dared to say that you drive and stigmatize those who disagree. That's absolutely right. What has been done under the Council of State Breck? You've never had less investment, you put it down so it's going down, and it's a rib crisis, a stick meat crisis, an egg crisis, a butter crisis, and now we have a milk crisis. If you don't take it in, you might want to find something else to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3757	With all due respect for the discussion here today – the main reason I took the floor in this debate is that I have a background from milk production for a 25-year period in a small district such as Sogn and Fjordane, which produces about. seven times as much food as the population in the county needs. How can it be done to have an up-to-date use in a small building inside the Sognefjord, which does not have an obvious advantage when it comes to being able to live from milk production? Yes, we have unique market mechanisms that allow everyone to gain market access for their product. Not only does urban agriculture have market access, but one can have market access for the smallest and most isolated rural areas in the country. These absolutely necessary market mechanisms, which, therefore, the Right Party and the Progress Party will remove and release the farmer, I think, are getting too little attention in the agricultural policy debate. I would also like to point out another tree that keeps up agriculture in the fjords, in the mountain areas and on our flatlands. These are the unique agricultural negotiations we have here in the country. My experience, having been a gardener for 25–30 years, is that these agricultural negotiations have given the industry a unique opportunity to have a steady hand on the steering wheel in the development of the industry. There is an important piece in the Norwegian model where actors in society can jointly develop a policy for the whole country. This tool will presumably be the first Progress Party and the Right will be removed from the agricultural policy. This is not a scary image from my side, it is their policy, and in addition to a dramatic weakening of import protection, these are the big differences in agricultural policy today. With all due respect for the issue of the size of agricultural production in dollars and cents, the most important issue is related to the three elements that I have now mentioned, namely an equivalent market access for the whole country, for all parts of our agriculture, as much as that of urban agriculture. The second thing I pointed out was the meaning that the industry itself can influence its own development. It's an institution in the Norwegian model. The last is that one underlines that Norwegian agriculture, whether it is district or urban, depends entirely on good border protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3770	I think this is an exciting debate. It's a fresh debate, but it's also a very clarifying debate. It very clearly draws up the political divisions. Then it surprises me a little bit that when we get a debate that emphasizes to those degrees that the Right Party and the Advance Party are on one side, and the rest is really on the other side, it is presented as if the debate is odd. One must dare to enter into the political differences that, after all, lie there. It is the Right and Advance Party that have one direction – the other parties in Stortinget have a different direction and a different course. When the Progress Party tries to say that a liberal policy is a good starting point for Norwegian agriculture, yes, it is with respect to report a completely logical short-circuit. Seeing agriculture, the market and industry — that's when you don't see Norway. Then one does not see the marginal possibilities of Norwegian agricultural production, when one uses that type of rhetoric to free the farmer in a market. One then ends up with — at best — three, maybe four, large industrial production sites in Norway that can produce food. They can probably produce a good deal of food if you don't have any kind of concerns about letting the feed initially be imported. Then one would have fed on one side, the animals in the middle and slaughtered on the other side. Then you have an industry. Then the quality of what we're talking about in Norwegian agriculture is gone. It's that way, that rhetoric, that basis and the values the Progress Party actually brings into this debate. The fact that the Right has a rather strong degree of convergence with the policy of the Progress Party is not difficult to recognise when a reader reads the position. The right is very careful in its rhetoric. But if you actually read what they write, get a slightly different shade and other pictures. When they say that they will, of course, maintain the agricultural negotiations, but that they will only add it to the budget year, towards the budget, there is a truth with modifications, because what they actually write, together with the Progress Party, is that ‘in principle, individual industries are concerned about negotiating their own frameworks directly with the State’. There comes the moments of truth relative to what the Right also stands for. There is a clear political distinction in this debate and in Norwegian agricultural policy, and we can be thankful for that in this debate. It's not weird at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3783	State Council Breck, along with several here in the hall today, has about the drum and turned on that Right does not want agriculture throughout the country. I don't know where they got it from. In everything we do in terms of agricultural policy – it is stated in all our documents – we say very clearly that we want agriculture throughout the country. So let's be clear. I think what has been said here is to scare, and there are claims that I don't think keep water. I was very clear in my post and said that we wanted a change of regulation that helps both farmers who want to operate on a smaller scale, and those who want to operate together in larger poultry, to get better conditions. We have to be able to have more than one or two thoughts in our head at the same time. Not everything should be as small as the Center Party seems to want. The representative Bremer from the Workers' Party spoke of small use in the innermost small village. Yes, I fully agree: we must also take care of them. I was very clear that bets on local food and drink production will be crucial for future agriculture, the tourism industry and not least for living and active rural communities throughout the country. Had he listened, he had heard what I said earlier today. I think it's very desperate to stand here and listen to that. It was also a horror picture here that we, who come from the districts, dare to pursue such a policy – it was Kolberg who said. In today's Our Land there is a big notice about a farmer, a cooperative farmer. The farm is located on an inflated island in the middle of Ålesund and Molde. You've made a great effort, you've invested a lot of money. Dad, daughter and son are joint owners. I have visited the company. It was amazing to be there and look at how everything was technologically controlled – absolutely amazing. But they're struggling – yes. This is a farmer, or a cooperative, who wants to run big, who wants to live by farming. In addition, we have many small uses in More and Romesdal because we have so many fjords and mountains, and because we want a diversity. But those who have the opportunity to bet, those who will, should be allowed to do so, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3796	It was the representative Holmelid who made me take the floor, for it is not every day that I get support in my comments from an SV. He gave me just until he said the farmer didn't find enough land. I think it's more about seeing the environment disappear, and you become quite lonely as a professional. But we don't have to discuss that. The point is that neither the SV nor the Center Party have any solution to that problem. So we agree that productivity is increasing sharply, and we agree that the area is a problem. What do people do then – when either you don't find the space enough, or bureaucracy says no to all the solutions you've been thinking about, so you don't get to increase your production? Well, then you move. And that's what you do! Since the 1950s, there has been an unbroken curve in Norwegian agriculture with 1 000 deaths per year. Politics has hardly played any role. We're in 36 000 empty-use. Then you have to start taking reality over. This is where I miss the honesty of politics. I actually think the professional deserves more honesty, because no one has the solution. In that case, employment and housing around Norway are much more dependent on the possibility of alternative employment. And we're also going to look at the statistics. The areas most affected by depopulation are those furthest away from where alternative employment is available. Then we get to start discussing the realities, but it doesn't look like there are so many on the red-green side that want to. So a very small comment to Kolberg, but I expect that perhaps a nutritionist, Fleet, will take it afterwards. Nobody in the Right has said that the state should not play a role, at least I don't stand for such a policy, not as long as the rest of the world pursues a policy where the state has a major role – in all the country's agricultural policy. That would be totally irresponsible, and it's not right. But we want a policy that provides opportunities for the single farmer without getting this bureaucracy. With Lundtigen's previous descriptions of bureaucracy and how the Ministry of Agriculture is now perceived in the industry, I believe my hat on the note that I actually thought was an accident at work, on the possibility of cutting red tape costs, because it is most realistic with the description that Lundtigen gave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3803	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3806	I would like to thank you for the positive attention from the Right! There is a need for innovation, we agree on that, but historically, the Right has provided lower food security and little economic respect for the work on soil and animals, and I would like to stress that it is the same today. One may object that it is everywhere that the Right should have agriculture throughout the country. Right in government is the worst option for Norwegian farmers. The representative, Gundersen, said that agricultural policy was going to keep what we have today. The National Audit Office has shown that this is wrong. The aim of agricultural policy has been the cheapest food possible, with dramatic negative consequences for food security. We have a mixed economy. Everyone's going for a mixed economy. What it's about is the role of the state. The State shall ensure food safety – that is the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3815	The representative Reiten repeats the question of the economy of a farmer who has delivered his results to him. I just want to point out that in terms of income measurements, there are many different measurements in the industry. We have a common reference work in the budget title. When the budget item calculates the revenue possibilities per year on the basis of the total calculation, the costs are covered first. So when we have a result of NOK 120,000 per year over six years, that includes the tax advantage, and then the costs are going to be covered. But it's true as the Horseman also stresses, and as many people say, it's not easy to recognize in that type of average number, and here we also have the efficiency development that affects the number material. The important thing to bring with it is that there are different results, that we are talking about self-employed. There are different knowledge, different resources, different forms of work, different hours spent, and different investment times. All of this affects the bottom line of the self-employed person. The agricultural deduction is calculated in the tax accounts, after presentation of the accounts. There are many examples that underline that it is difficult for me to comment on the single result that Reiten here presented to me. But I have to look at it, and we have to analyze it. The point is that there are very different results around, and what has to be the political ambition is that we have to keep working to improve income. In the case of grass-based livestock farming, we have prioritised it over the last few years. But we haven’t come far enough – I never said we’ve come far enough. We have to move on. We have to work even more to improve income opportunities in the future, but no one can sit here and with their hands on the heart saying that we only solve everything through financial transfers in the agricultural agreement. It also has something to do with how competent the individual is in his daily operations. That is the consequence that we have agreements for self-employed people. In any case, the ambition is that we should set a framework that allows us to operate well and live well on the basis of an annual work. Many people ask why we have production ceilings, why we have quota arrangements for milk. The representative Røbeck Nørve was one of those who took it up. Well, that's because we have a need for distribution. The 400 tonnes ceiling – 750 tonnes for co-operation – is set because we need to benefit from agriculture throughout the country. I've said we're going to look at the possibilities to increase production, but if we're going to make changes, we have to do it together with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3825	The representative of Irene Lange Nordahl has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3828	There has been a long debate in an area in which we in the Center Party have a strong commitment, and which shows the clear dividing lines towards the right. In the Center Party, we have a great deal of understanding of the frustration and impatience we experience out among the farmers. We will continue the fight to strengthen the incomes of the farmer in order to achieve the objectives of the Agriculture Communication, and we take most seriously that there was no negotiation this year. Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck, and he has also made it clear in the Chamber today. The centre party, with the Minister of Agriculture at the head, will continue to fight for the future of agriculture. There shouldn't be any doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3833	The representative, Martin Kolberg, has also spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3836	The representative Kielland Asmyhr said that it is the market that is going to take this, and asked: what is wrong with the market? To that I would say in principle on behalf of the Norwegian Labour Party that there is nothing wrong with the market. The Norwegian economy has been built on the market, run by the Norwegian Labour Party over many generations. But it's been regulated. When Kielland Asmyhr takes a comparison between agriculture and industry, it's just that Norwegian industry is built on the same principle as Norwegian agriculture. He talks to himself without perhaps being fully aware of it. Then I would just like to say at the end that the representative Røbekk Nørve from Møre and Romsdal had many good examples of operation in his state. Yes, within today’s regime, it is established, and there are examples that it is not rigid and bureaucratic – it is, on the contrary, flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3843	I note that Right today appears to be the great friend of district politics. Well, I have to say, it really surprises me. The progress game does not attempt that one, at least they're honest with it. Let's sum up: what's the situation? Lowering of border protection – should it increase the ignition of agriculture? Well, the answer gives itself. The meat prices and the milk prices in the world around us are well below the payment price that Norwegian farmers have. If a lower border guard, it is obvious that it will affect the price level, the payment price, to Norwegian farmers. In future, the income of Norwegian farmers will be dramatically reduced by lowering border protection. Commodities prices will be significantly lower. The second way in which the Right Party and the Progress Party will ‘temporary’ rural agriculture is, in the next round, to remove market mechanisms. It is such that Norwegian agriculture has a very different operating base. Flatlands and the broad and good urban farming have a more open advantage, while rural agriculture has a more open disadvantage to contend with. The good balance achieved through market mechanisms will therefore be eliminated by the removal of market mechanisms. The third way in which the Right Party and the Advance Party shall free the Norwegian farmer is by cutting in addition to the transfers. So the sum of the three simple copies I have now mentioned is what should be «förstilla» the Norwegian farmer. It would have quite the opposite effect, presumably the Norwegian farmer would find himself in a different profession to live from if this became the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3856	I find it difficult to understand the great self-confidence of the Right and the Advance Party in this debate, when they are fundamentally sceptical about the negotiating institute itself. But the reason I took the floor is the post of the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, who indicates that the Right wants agriculture in the districts, does not understand the criticism from the government parties and says that the criticism is not justified. Then I would like to have a little reading from the Right Alternative Farm Message, which might be a little clarifying why that criticism came. It says: «We believe that housing and employment should not be a measure of agricultural transfers.» I guess that's a pretty clear signal on the opposite, so I hope it was clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3868	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3871	In an earlier post, the representative Kolberg says that we do not recognise the organisations. Then I have to repeat what I have said to Mr Kolberg earlier today that we are actually voting for what is available from the government. If it's not to recognise this, I don't know, although the government didn't manage to negotiate any agreement. Then the representative of Kolberg also says that the state has to play an important role. When did the Right say that the State should not play an important role in budget support and support for agriculture? We have never actually said that, and I have to ask that the representative Kolberg digs a little to find out. On the contrary, we write in our alternative agricultural communication that the financial subsidies to agriculture, which are still to be, must become less bureaucratic – more to the farmer and less to administrative costs. I think that is actually a very good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3878	When I sit and listen to this debate, there is a sentence that goes on: Release the farmer. Then I wonder, "Free to what then?" The customs walls must be removed, the agricultural aid must be removed, the farmer must live on what can be taken into account, the farmer must compete in the market with farmers from the rest of the world. Well, I know that there are countries with a living agriculture without agricultural subsidies, for example. New Zealand. But the climatic conditions may be something different there. There's summer all year round, at least on a tranny scale. The farms consist of sheds that accommodate the milk robot, but there is no way to live on small part-time farms with only 500 dairy cows. Today we are in the middle of June. The dairy farmers in Holtålen woke up today for a real Christmas mood. After the images on the web to judge, it was 10 cm fresh snow. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out who's going to lose in that competition. The cultivated land in Norway will be lying fallow. There may be no problem, maybe we in rich Norway can import what we need for food. But is it fair that we who can afford it should buy the food from countries where they might have too little from before? There is no professional disagreement that food production in the world has to rise sharply if we are to be able to feed a rapidly growing population. Should not rich Norway be obliged to afford to produce all the food that can be produced from our climatic and topographical framework conditions? When the Progress Party is talking about releasing the farmer, I cannot help but compare the situation with the environmental activists who are said to break into mink farms in the best sense and release the tummy. Without comparison: both the farming industry and the decline will suffer a relatively fast, but very painful, death.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3889	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has spoken twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3892	The head of the Industry Committee, the representative of Aasland, concluded that this had been a clarification debate. I will dare to claim that this debate has been something quite different than clarifying. For what is the response of the red-green parties to the farmer's march that was all over the country a short time ago? What's the red-green signal for the Bondet at Lillehammer? Well, that's frightening with other parties. There's no answer. We have to have an agricultural policy that is realistic, and it doesn't have the red-green parties. In this debate it is only the representative Lundtigen from the red-green side who has been honest, and honour be Lundtigen for his commitment and honesty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3900	I'm not going to spend a long time here, I'm just going to try to answer Kielland Asmyhr's question: what are the red-green parties' answers? Well, the answer of the red-green parties is to continue working with the business organisations. Together with business organisations, we will create further opportunities, and we will establish agricultural agreements in the future. I think that's the big difference between the red-green and the opposition, because there's no one in the industry who wants the answers of the Progress Party and the Right in the comments on the agricultural and food reports, or in the comments on the agricultural situation here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3905	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3908	I am not going to extend the debate in any way; I am just going to stress that it has not been my intention to use the Right Party and the Progress Party either to write or to say in this debate, or to do so with regard to the agricultural notification and conclusion, as a scare-screen on anything. But it must be allowed in a political debate to say that it is clarifying that the political dividing lines then come out well. That those who stand for a different direction from what the government is doing, feel it frustrating and feel it strange, we have to live with it in a way. But they have to bear in mind that someone is questioning some of the policies they actually choose to pursue themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3915	A short comment only on settlement throughout the country. It's actually like you can't use a policy to force people to live anywhere. The representative of Botten's sketch is what's called reservation arrangements. The right-hand side pursues a policy to enable profitable agriculture to be managed throughout the country, and there should also be differentiation in terms of how the aid schemes should be. So that scare image I think you should bring down. Then I must be allowed to end by saying that I agree with the representative of Aasland. There should be clear lines of division, and they should be tried in good debates. Here's the problem that the red-greens have relied on the entire peasantry as the world's largest fan club. Realities are probably not like that – then there would probably not have been a break in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3929	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3944	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3953	What we are about to deal with now is a proposition on the 2012/2013 reindeer management agreement with proposals to amend appropriations under the 2012 State budget. On 1 June 1993 the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg approved the Main Agreement for reindeer management, St.prp. No 66 for 1992–1993, and authorised the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to negotiate with the Norwegian Reinbrukssamers Landsförbund – NRL – on annual agreements for the reindeer industry. Negotiations on the reindeer management agreement 2012/2013 were initiated on 9 January 2012. The parties reached agreement on a new agreement at the final negotiating meeting on 23 February 2012. The agreement applies for the period from 1 July 2012 to 30. ==References== The framework for the reindeer management agreement 2012/2013 is 104.5 million. kr. This is an increase of 2.5 million. kr compared to the current settlement after the adopted budget for 2012. It is in the matter of this one's between the government parties and the Progress Party and the Right, with partial support from the Christian People's Party to the government parties and the opposition. That's how it works. I then consider myself to be done with the case rapporteur section and move on to the views of the Progress Party. The Progress Party is aware that a new reindeer grazing convention has been negotiated with Sweden but is not yet operational due to a lack of ratification. We consider it unfortunate that a new convention has not entered into force, and sees it as important that the government helps to get ahead of the Swedish authorities. In this context, it is noted that the lack of agreement prevents Norwegian reindeer grazing districts from using winter pastures in Sweden. We will point out that today there are major challenges with the reindeer industry in the border regions of Sweden. Municipalities spend considerable resources on conflicts with Swedish practitioners who build cabs on the Norwegian side and do not deal with Norwegian law on planning and building and Norwegian laws and regulations. When we look at uncertainties in the interpretation of reindeer management laws versus planning and building laws in relation to reindeer management, this is a problem that has recently escalated. Reference may also be made to the conflict in the Lenvik peninsula where hundreds of pure people from Sweden have been illegally resident. The area within which they have resided is an area not recognised as a reindeer grazing area, which could also have created problems for the municipality’s water supply for the approximately 10,000 inhabitants located in the area concerned. The problems are proliferating, the level of conflict is increasing and it does not appear to have a future solution that can bring peace to all parties. The consequences of the lack of new agreement between countries are propagated throughout the county by the reindeer being moved to areas not defined as grazing areas. It is today the municipalities as a third party that get the problems trapped. I would like to point out the importance of the government intensifying work on a new agreement, and as soon as possible agreement with the Swedish government is reached. We regret that the government parties cannot support our proposal to prioritize ratification of an agreement. The Progress Party also considers that there is reason to ask questions about the extent of the loss of puree caused by predatory game. The current compensation scheme is based to a small extent on evidence of losses. Nationally, compensation of 25 pst is granted. by what is sought, which has been killed by the peace of robbers. Of the number being replaced, it's just 6 pst. is documented. It was budgeted for 2010 to compensate for the loss of reindeer due to the peace of the predatory game of 55,728 million. kr, while the accounts show 66,082 million. kr. There is reason to ask questions about the internal control of the reindeer management, as the Riksrevision has done on several occasions. When we are in the Riksrevision, the Riksrevision has also today produced a report that is directly crushing against the Minister of Agriculture. I would like to quote from the conclusion of the Riksrevision report: ‘The objective of ecologically sustainable reindeer management has not been achieved. Large parts of the Finnmark range are excessive because the reindeer is not adapted to the grazing basis. The last grazing survey in 2009 shows that more than 50 per cent of the low-covered area is low-bidden and about 40 per cent are reduced. For 90 per cent of the low surface, the low thickness is below the limit of when it is most productive. Pasturage resources are most impaired on spring and autumn pastures and on early winter pastures. The average slaughter weights and meat yield for the period 2006-2010 do not comply with the limit values for an organic and sustainable clean figure. These conditions are severe in all reindeer pastures in eastern and western Finland, with the exception of Polmak/Varanger. The purity figure has increased by about 40 per cent from 2002 to 2010, and the established purity figure from 2011 implies that the number of pure must be reduced by about 20 per cent.» The government was going down with respect to the number of reindeer. It has not been able to trade and not be able to do its job. Contrary to going down the reindeer, you get an increase of 40 pst. This is incredibly serious for the ecological basis in Finnmark. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3984	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e3987	I am pleased that there was an agreement on the reindeer management agreement for 2012–2013. The frame's at 104.5 million. kr and there is an increase of 2,5 million. kr. We in the government parties are committed to ensuring a reindeer drift based on economic, ecological and cultural sustainability. We are very concerned that all reindeer operations should be well anchored in these posts. It's not like this today, completely. But I would like to stress that in the reindeer industry there are a lot of competent professionals in the entire area of the country that has reindeer operations. For Christmas last year, the Reinhriftstyrelsen had completed its work of approving the rules of use and the upper reindeer in all the pages and areas. The authorities now have a better basis for a detailed overview of the situation. I want to pay tribute to the Rein driftsstyrelsen for well done work. Some now have the opportunity to increase their numbers if they find it appropriate, while it is clear that many have to reduce grazing pressure in their areas, and it is important to make progress in this. We are therefore pleased that the reindeer management agreement focuses on stimulating market production and value creation, targeting reindeer operators as their main activity, and measures contributing to the rapid follow-up of the agricultural and food notification. There is still no solution in place for the cross-border grazing of Swedish reinland on Norwegian soil. This is particularly problematic in Troms, and it is very important that the Council of State rescues the reindeer workers in Troms and gives the work of setting up the agreement between our two countries a high priority. I also note that the Riksrevision in a report presented today points out that the rules of use have not helped to clarify grazing and upper reindeer in winter grazing districts, and that therefore the ministry is asking to complete that work, so that all seasonal pastures are taken into account in determining the upper reindeer and grazing. I am pleased that the Council of State agrees to this, and sees it essential to have ongoing processes implemented to reduce the reindeer in parts of Finnmark quickly. Finally, I would like to remind you that in parts of the industry predators are also a major challenge. I believe that last year's predatory settlement in Stortinget should give hope that that situation can improve gradually, and that the removal of pests and compensation payments from the state are more efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4004	That's already said a lot, so I'm going to try to limit time usage. The cleaning agreement has been concluded, agreement has been reached, and we see no reason to go into it so deeply. It is very good that there is agreement between the industry and the government in this matter. What I want to spend some time on is that regardless of the reindeer agreement, this is an industry that has major challenges ahead of it. We've discussed that a number of times in this room. It is such that the requirements of the law are sustainable reindeer management through the sub-objectives of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability in reindeer management. In the right, we have already clarified that here the concept of ecological sustainability must be governing and overriding the other objectives. We have also pointed out in the past that the recent agricultural notification has been operating with some cross-cutting objectives. The right considers that a key prerequisite for achieving ecologically sustainable operations in all primary industries is profitability, i.e. the desire to achieve ecological sustainability requires that the industry is economically viable. These two are hanging in the middle of nowhere. The prerequisites for this are once again the development of a rational and market-oriented industry, with a full focus on producing high-quality food that is sought in a well-paying market. Then I would like to add that the objective of both ecological and economic sustainability is challenged by the reported problems of high purity, poor grazing grounds, major animal health problems and weak market understanding. In the Right, we believe that when the objective of cultural sustainability is not well defined in the law – and this is a problem we have pointed out repeatedly – it will only reinforce the problems, and it will not be compatible with the first two objectives. As with other industries, clean-up operations must take on board the fact that modernising operations by means of technology will also result in the need for fewer hands in the industry. Finally, I would like to add that the report presented today by the National Audit Office on sustainable management in most areas gives Right in the descriptions we have presented in this Chamber in recent years. We've said that the concept of sustainability is not defined so that it can be used to control it. The National Audit Board requests that the objective of cultural and economic sustainability be operationalised in order to enable results to be measured. So it's going to be possible to control them, the National Auditor's asking for. It's actually the way the Right and the Riksrevision see the problem from two sides, but they describe the exact same medicine. For safety's sake, I am promoting the joint proposals of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in the vote. Then I have to make it clear that this is not what the setting says. It says that the Right should agree with the Progress Party on proposals No. 5 and 6. That's wrong. It should only be the Progress Party on proposals No. 5 and 6. Otherwise, the right reindeer management agreement as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4032	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. The President has registered the changes to which the representative referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4035	The store has recently dealt with Meld. Article 9 on agricultural and food policy. This is where the Stortinget ends up with the government's reindeer management policy. It is based on the ecological, economic and cultural viability of the reindeer, which many people have enjoyed before today. In the setting set by the Business Committee in connection with the message, emphasis was given to strengthening the nutrition perspective of the reindeer industry. It was also set up to adjust the reindeer numbers and increase production. The clean-up and clean-up laws are two key instruments for achieving the policy objectives of the sewerage industry. SV is pleased that this year an agreement was negotiated that provides the basis for a positive development in the industry. The main objective of the agreement is to facilitate increased market-right production and value creation. It will include, among others: facilitating increased slaughter and production. The reindeer management agreement establishes a new reindeer management programme based on the model of the local food programme within the agricultural agreement. The new programme should address the challenges of reindustry. At the same time, the programme shall include tourism-based business development in reindeer management. Cooperation between reindeer and processing plants will also be promoted, which we believe can contribute to better price development over time. These are important measures to develop industry in an economically viable direction. Cleaning is facing a number of challenges, which many have also been facing here today. It shall apply, inter alia, to: gravitational pressure. Therefore, it is important and positive that rules of use and upper reindeer are now established in all districts. On the other hand, it is unfortunate that the new grazing convention with Sweden has not entered into force. In the negotiated reindeer management agreement, there is a set of half a million kroner to help compensate for those who do not get used bets in the neighbouring country, and we are pleased about that. SV is pleased that it was possible to arrive at an agreement that goes in the right direction in relation to developing the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4050	The main objective of the reindeer management agreement is to facilitate increased market production and value creation. In this context, it should be noted that the agreement involves the continuation of production-dependent subsidies in substance. This continuation facilitates increased slaughter and production, while creating predictability for the individual reindeer operator. The negotiated agreement provides a basis for continued positive development of the reindeer industry, which we in the Centre Party are satisfied with. The agreement also underpins the slowdown in the reindeer management arrangements in recent years, with a more nutrient-oriented focus and an organisation for reindeer operators with main reindeer activities. We consider this to be very important in the Centre Party. We are also satisfied with the work done by the reindeer management board to establish the rules of use and the upper reindeer in all districts, and that this was in place by the end of 2011. It is now important that these objectives are followed up. The agreement involves the establishment of a reindeer management programme corresponding to the Local Food Programme. The new programme shall be adapted to the challenges of reindeer holdings, while the reindeer-based economic development of reindeer management and cooperation actions between reindeer management and processing plants shall be included in the programme. We see this as positive, and we look forward to the results of such kind of work. We are aware that a new reindeer grazing convention has been negotiated with Sweden, but that this is not yet operational due to a lack of ratification. The centre party is aware that this matter has been raised from the Norwegian side with the Swedish authorities. We still see it as important that the government helps to advance the matter to the Swedish authorities. We are also concerned that the Norwegian authorities facilitate the possibility for Norwegian reindeer grazing districts to operate further in the future, until a new reindeer grazing convention has been ratified – and after a ratification is in place. Here there are a number of challenges that it is important to address in order to ensure Norwegian reintroduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4067	Purgatory policy is a balance between three areas: animal health, nutrient basis and ecological sustainability. There are challenges to reindeer management in all these three areas. The Christian People's Party believes that reindeer management can make good use of resources in marginal mountain and outlying areas, and that the industry is a central bearer of Sami culture. The Christian People's Party believes that the measures of reindeer management policy must be designed to ensure that the industry is sustainable in both ecological, economic and cultural terms. A thorough review of the industry is needed, both in terms of trends and measures to improve the situation. It is further underlined by the report of the Riksrevision which was published today. One important step in ensuring good and sustainable development will be to finalise and ratify a new Norwegian-Swedish grazing convention. Here we are calling for more drive and drive from the government. Purity policy was part of the agricultural notification. In our opinion, that is not enough. It has now been 20 years since Stortinget dealt with its own big business report on reindeer operations. The Christian People's Party believes that a new reindeer management message needs to be prepared in the light of the major changes that have occurred in the reindeer operation during this period. This applies at the ecological level to land use interventions, land loss, predatory loss and climate change, at the legal level, with an increased focus on customary and new reindeer law and at the economic level to convert grant and compensation schemes. In addition, the reindeer industry, particularly in Finnland, has challenges related to production variations, low slaughter weights, very high reported predatory losses and low productivity. The Christian People's Party therefore calls for an overall review of the industry in its own big message. In the spring of 2007, a new reindeer management law was adopted which established new instruments that can be put in place to reduce excessive clean-up. We need those tools now. The situation of the low pastures on Finnmarksvidda is far from good enough. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the work of reducing the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark takes a long time, and we are concerned that this important work is being followed up, so that one ensures the most sustainable reindeer operation. If the industry is to be made ecologically and economically sustainable, there are several challenges that need to be solved. These challenges vary between grazing areas, but the use of pasture is a major challenge for all. This applies either to excessive gravitational pressures, such as in Finnland, or to ensuring sufficient areas for carrying out the activity. The Christian People's Party believes that if the industry is to be economically and ecologically sustainable, we must overcome the huge losses. Not least, there is a need to get an overview of the real losses. It is therefore essential to improve internal control. That is why the Christian Party, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, promotes, among other things. a proposal for the government to review the compensation scheme for the loss of cleanness and to assess the strengthening of the requirements for the documentation of reported losses. In our opinion, such a review must be carried out by an independent body.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4090	On 23 February, the State and the Norwegian Rein driftsssamers Landsverband reached a reindeer management agreement for 2012/2013. After last year's break, I am glad that it was agreed again. I believe the agreement is good and provides a basis for positive development in the industry. The agreement prioritises measures for value creation and increased market output. The agreement is based on making the instruments of the reindeer management agreement more nutrient-oriented and provides more incentives for reindeer operators whose main activity is reindeer activity. In order to achieve the policy objectives of reindeer management, it is necessary that the reindeer management law and the reindeer management agreement complement each other and draw in the same direction. The clean-up agreement 2012/2013 does just that by making it possible to use economic instruments to comply with approved rules of use. In this context, the lateral proportions that do not reduce the animal number under the reduction plans or follow up on a proportionate reduction through the 2012/2013 slaughter season will be significantly curtailed in their grants. The situation in this year’s reindeer management agreement negotiations is also taking place in an image of how many demanding challenges have been faced in the industry. Not least, this resource situation applies in parts of Finnmark. I have the overall responsibility to achieve the goal of sustainable reindeer management. However, it is the reindeer itself that has the primary responsibility to develop rules of use that ensure ecologically sustainable grazing and reindeer. I have in several cases found it necessary to intervene in these processes. I refer here to the work on determining the upper reindeer and the department's expectations that given criteria were used both in the preparation and validation of the reindeer number. I can also show that the department has converted some redundancy decisions because it was not likely that the agreed redundancy figures were sustainable. These changes show that we take the resource situation very seriously in reprocessing. The districts which now need to reduce their purity shall draw up reduction plans. The closing season 2012/2013 will be the first opportunity to follow up these plans. I would like to stress the importance of the success of this work by the authorities and industry. The preparation of the reduction plans and their follow-up are also the main test of whether the reindeer operation was mature for the increased responsibility that was demanded and met in the last revision of the reindeer management law we received in 2007. The follow-up of the rules of use of reindeer management and the need to adapt the reindeer to the grazing resources of parts of Finnmark require an increased slaughter of pure Finnmark. Increased withdrawals will require better use of today’s slaughter capacity in Finnmark. Reduced capacity utilisation in recent years has had its main cause in a difficult market situation. Fortunately, the market situation now looks brighter, and you see a positive development. However, the reduction plans and an increased withdrawal of the butchery will require the reindeer meat industry to work actively and well towards the market. Over the last year, the size of the population has increased attention to the policy of reindeer management. I have answered a number of written questions, and a number of issues have been discussed. I find this increased interest in reindeer management policy positive. But with the background of the answers and the debates that have taken place, I find some of the minority's comments in the vote somewhat surprising. I believe that several of the proposals that are being put forward will make it difficult to achieve the reindeer policy objectives, and I would therefore like to take the opportunity to comment on some of them. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are negative to the protection of imports as a basis for price formation. Since winter 2003, import quotas for reindeer meat have not been traded at reduced duty rates. I would like to stress that this measure has contributed significantly to increased withdrawals of Norwegian-produced reindeer. The increased withdrawal has compensated for the imports previously carried out. As the increase in output is mainly linked to Finnmark, this measure has been central to avoiding a significant increase in purity. Furthermore, the members of the Committee from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party raise questions about the extent of the loss of reindeer caused by predatory game, and that the present system is too little based on evidence of loss. I want to say that I find the statements of the minority something special, because the statements contribute to the perhaps unfortunate stigmatisation of an industry that in many places is very vulnerable to heavy losses to predatory game. These members also believe that the area needs of the reindeer industry should not go ahead or at the expense of other economic development or other interests in the same area. Such a view is to consider the reintroduction exercise to be sustainable — a vision that prevailed in large parts of the last century. However, reindeer management has its rights of use that must be taken into account, as is the case with other users and rightholders. In addition, I would like to remind you that the Norwegian authorities are obliged both internationally and nationally to maintain the land base of the reindeer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4114	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4117	I would like to quote from various parts of the press release to the Riksrevision today: ‘The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as the Ministry responsible for agriculture, has not contributed to reducing the number of pure to an ecologically sustainable level, as provided for by the Stortinget.’ ‘In its study, the Court of Auditors highlights the specific responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to ensure an ecologically sustainable clean-up in Finnland.’ ‘The Ministry of Agriculture and Food lacks governance of the sustainable reindeer management objective.’ ‘The Ministry must also ensure that the instruments provided for in the Act of Purification and the Repurchase Agreement, including financial intensities and penalties, are used to reduce the number of reindeer.’ I have raised this with the Council of State several times, and then he has claimed that it is not his responsibility, but that the reindeer industry itself is responsible. Now it is clear from the Riksrevision's opinion that you are going to start with financial incentives and penalties to get this in place. When are you going to start? You're gonna let it go for three or four more years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4136	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4139	The conclusion of the Riksrevision that the objective of ecological sustainability has not been achieved is correct. In some areas the slaughter weights are alarming, and in some places the situation is worrying with regard to the pasturage, especially in parts of Finnland. That's why the work – which we've discussed in this hall many times – is done to bring down the pure number, so important to finish. The national audit has taken into account both ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. The objective of ecological sustainability is the very foundation of economic and cultural sustainability. This has to be in place first. The size has also provided clear guidance on the use of ecological sustainability. This survey was completed just before the implementation of the new reindeer management law was completed around the turn of the year. The last phase we are now working on is precisely the reduction obligations and the reduction plans to be implemented, with deadlines for when reduction is to take place. So we're doing this reduction -- it's taken a long time, but we're on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4146	That's right, as the council says, things have actually happened in the industry. It's a fantastic nourishment, with incredible opportunities, and a lot of things have been straightening out in the last few years. It is also true that there is an industry where there are more and more young practitioners — who may not be so tied up by the cultural part of the industry — who are modern nutritionists who operate in a very good way. I want to go back to the National Audit Office's report, because there's one thing that points out in relation to the rules of use. Governments say that rules of use have been introduced in all summer pastures, summer areas. The national audit requires rules of use for the winter pastures. I wonder if the Council of State can say a little about how he views that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4153	First of all, I would like to agree very much with the representative, Bakke-Jensen, that it is a fantastic industry, which has opportunities if we can convert it, if we manage to get it to work in a way that makes it sustainable, that the reindeer number is adapted to the grazing basis. So that's where I think I and the representative Bakke-Jensen are very much in agreement. So I would like to stress that the work that has been done in recent years has produced results. Now we've come to the point where we're going to start working to bring down the reindeer numbers in the different districts. There is responsibility for the industry itself, for the practitioners, under the law, but we must use the means we have, economic and other instruments, to ensure that we follow it up as well as possible. As for the question of winter grazing, and as a starting point, I have to look at it – I have received the comments from the Riksrevision today, and it is difficult for me to comment directly on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4162	The Christian People's Party participates in the proposal to ask the government to review the compensation scheme for the loss of purity. It's a very small part of the reindeer that's reported to be lost, where you can prove that it's really predatory loss, all the way down to 5 pst. In connection with an earlier case, the representative took Tåldal among others. that if you look at the total number of animals that are reported, that number is enormously high compared to the number of predators that can be assumed to be in the areas where the clean disappears. Does the Council acknowledge that this can be a problem that should be addressed, and should a slightly harder instrument be put in place to address how this is happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4167	I would like to agree that it is important to get that system sorted out, and that we should have compensation rules that compensate for real losses. But what was the starting point for my comment in the post is that we should be careful about accusing someone of cheating. I feel that the industry here is struggling very much with predatory losses, they are struggling very much with the situation that is, and we must respond to that, so that they also have the opportunity to continue working on it. So from that point of view, we will continue to work with the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Directorate of Nature Management, which also has a good part of the data at the bottom that goes on replacements in the event of predatory losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4172	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4177	Purification is a small industry on a national scale, but in a Sami and local context it is of great importance, both in economic, employment and cultural terms. The last piece may have been a little under-communicated in today's debate, but I'll leave it. My concern here today is just the difficult situation we've had with gravitational pressures and the number of pure ones. Let me start by stressing that this is a problem that essentially concerns some reindeer districts, so it's not about the industry as such. On the contrary, there are the sides that have the basis for increasing the number of animals, if there was space and interest in it. Nevertheless, we aim to ensure that the reindeer industry has both ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. But there may be grounds for also talking about a moral sustainability here, and a legitimacy. The sewerage industry is an industry which, precisely because of its cultural importance, receives significant grants from the Community. It is developing a reputational problem for the industry, due to the overall impression you get. This threatens both cultural and economic sustainability. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken action and is systematically working on a difficult problem, but I would like to signal that there are limits to how long patience can last from the community in order to fix this. The Finnish territory, both in eastern and western Finland, which the reindeer industry is allowed to use on the basis of historical rights, is also part of the property of the community. It shall also be managed in an ecological manner. It is not that cultural sustainability is allowed to go ahead of ecological management of Community resources. I am also aware that economic instruments are the main means to be used and that coercive measures are the last resort, if they are not targeted, by taking on the responsibility they actually have for bringing reindeer management down to a sustainable level. I am pleased that the Council of State underlines the challenge facing the industry in showing up to the task of maturity. I am sure that the Council of State will follow this closely. I also believe that it is essential to solve the challenges that exist in clarifying winter grazing rights, because much of the problem lies there. That's what the Council of State has been up to. There is an exceptional possibility in the reindeer management law to extend this with a three-year derogation for disadvantaged sites. I hope the Council of State intends to resort to restrictive practices, and that exceptions are made only in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4194	I would first like to point out that Sivertsen's posts were very good. I support what he says, because we are busy considering the sustainability and the state of the environment on the Finnmarks, and this is also clearly reflected in the Riksrevision's study. This has been claimed many times, and I will challenge the Council of State again on what I believe I did not get an answer to in the change of lines: He said he would do something about it, but it was three years since I raised the question of when he would take action, and perhaps this would have financial consequences. This has been talked and talked and talked about. The question I will again ask the Council of State to answer is: When has he planned to impose financial sanctions – as the Riksrevision also refers to – so that there will be pressure on the industry? The industry itself, as they say, just lets it scour and go, because nothing happens at the other end. Sometimes you have to put hard on hard. It's not just animal welfare – in animals that we see especially in winter – that's in danger up there, but it's also ecological. When it appears that 90 pst. of the low deck is below the limit of when it is most productive, and 50 pst. If you wait two or three years longer, this is going to go the wrong way. I therefore ask the Council of State to answer: When does he intend to take action that may work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4206	Two brief comments on the intervention by the Council of State. With regard to import protection, there are operators in the industry who also record that import protection leads to export problems. That is why we have asked that we look at it with import protection. Nor are there so many things you operate on that kind of protection that should be especially necessary. The other matter I would like to comment on is what the Council of State said when we asked for a review of the compensation scheme for the loss of clean, where he said it could be a little dangerous, because we stigmatise the industry. On the contrary – it is important that we take a review, so that that scheme appears as robust as possible for the reputation of the industry. When you can use cheap rhetoric and cheap images in the press about this, it's a problem for the industry. When you can say with simple sentences that you have received large sums of compensation, without this being documented, it is a problem for the reputation of the industry. That is why we are asking for this review. There should be a robust system that should work as it should, but it should also be transparent, so that we know why the industry has got this money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4215	I understand the impatience of the representatives, because it is important that we get the frames around Norwegian reindeer management better on care than they have been for many years. We started that job, as the representative Bakke-Jensen also underlined. Let me point out that the rules of use, with an upper reindeer number, were completed now in December. Now the rules of use are being followed up, and it is expected that in the coming slaughter season we will be able to comply with that legislation, so that we can get down to zero. It's a dispensation option, and I'm not going to say anything other than that we're going to evaluate it later on. In any case, the clean-up management has clear responsibility for following up legislation, and we are going to use both economic and other instruments in this regard. With regard to what I see as an indication that forced slaughtering of domestic animals is to be carried out on the Finnmarks gauge in order to avoid major animal diseases, as it is formulated in a note, it would be quite special if the government were to ensure that forced slaughter is started directly, if that is what is meant by those who are behind the note, and thus jump over processes laid down in Norwegian legislation, the Law on Reef and given administrative principles and rules. The point of mentioning it is that there are frames around Norwegian reindeer farms that we have to follow up properly. There is a framework with which I am responsible for following up, and with which I, along with the administration, work hard. There is a framework for which the industry itself is responsible, according to the law. We must ensure that it is followed up and thus achieve the necessary sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4228	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4242	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three sequences with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after contributions from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4253	There is no doubt that the Business Committee is busy with the tools, innovation and our business. I would like to introduce myself to the opposition so that we can stand together and say that the business community in Norway is doing well and has a good job, and that the tool tool works well in general. Norway is a country where 320,000 new jobs have been created since 2005 — more than 200,000 have been created in the private sector. In the notes, there are shades of concern about strengthening today's policy, the lack of medicine, and also an aberrant proposal on changes in the tax FUNN system. Report. St. 22 for 2011–2012, Tools for Growth – on Innovation Norway and SIVA SF, provides a status report for Innovation Norway and SIVA, does well to see how the government will follow up the improvement points of the evaluation and the listening recordings, outline the framework for further development of the company and see how the company is a key tool in the implementation of the government’s industrial and regional policies. The evaluation of Innovation Norway and SIVA in 2009 and 2010 has been open and wide-ranging, and in all cases Innovation Norway and SIVA have good targets in the evaluations and hearing recordings. In addition to the evaluation of Innovation Norway and SIVA, we have our own follow-up reports on travel life activities, on the outcome of Innovation Norway and on the economic resilience of the innovation companies in which SIVA is located. The message sets out new objectives that underline the need for good entrepreneurs, growth businesses and innovative business environments. Innovation, internationalisation and profiling are important tools for achieving these objectives. The evaluation showed that Innovation Norway had a demanding portfolio to brief on. The Committee takes a view of the need for simplification, but disagrees whether simplification is to be achieved by presenting proposals to Innovation Norway, which is the one with the shoes, while the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has the primary responsibility or whether this simplification is to be done through the Ministry of Industry and Trade. A strengthening of Innovation Norway as an innovation policy advisor was identified in the evaluations as an area of high potential for improvement. The government would take note of this. The Committee is also in agreement with the government, but the distinction goes on whether Innovation Norway should have a role in addition to its own owners. The evaluation of out-of-office offices showed that Innovation Norway’s internationalisation work should be strengthened and changed primarily to provide practical assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises. However, Innovation Norway will build up sectoral competences in some markets and also cooperate more closely than today with other public actors with sectoral competence, in order to also play that role. There is a considerable untapped potential where Innovation Norway itself is not present, but only has, for example, embassy staff. Agriculture, which we have discussed here before today, is an important part of the whole business community in much of the district of Norway. The evaluation showed that the BU funds contributed little to the goal of innovation in Norway. At the same time, Innovation Norway provides a competence that is difficult to replace. A joint committee agrees that the BU scheme will continue to be managed by Innovation Norway. One doesn't agree with the BU scheme itself, but that debate, in my view, doesn't belong here. The message will take the initiative to evaluate loan schemes managed by Innovation Norway. In this context, we ask red-green that it is especially important to assess whether the risk profile should be right. Here, there's nuances in that committee of mine, but I'm assuming that the opposition party itself is doing the right thing. New targets for SIVA are also being set. In recent years, SIVA has seen that the company is more in demand than before in several larger and more demanding projects. The new objectives highlight the fact that the company has a role to play in relation to major industrial projects. That's good! The evaluation of SIVA's ownership business is also under way, where one looks at the foundation and the demand for SIVA's services on the owner's side, analyses the company's strategy and priorities, portfolio composition and corporate and socio-economic profitability, and also looks at the issues associated with major projects involving international companies. A single committee sees it as important that the business environment programme be continued. Another important area is the incubation program. A Joint Committee would point out that incubation programmes have been particularly successful, and it is important to secure funds to invest in incubation programmes in the future. There is agreement in the Committee to ensure the good use of the State's resources. It is then important to have clearer role-sharing and good cooperation between the different actors — Innovation Norway, SIVA, Norway’s Research Council, the EEAS and private actors. The goal of clearer links between the different actors’ websites, for the benefit of customers, will make it easier for entrepreneurs and businesses to inform themselves among the tools of their various services and applications. A Joint Committee supports the provision of greater target management over the detailed management of the companies Innovation Norway and SIVA. Good and effective drug use is important, and the right of business means will help trigger enterprise and socio-economic viable projects that would otherwise not be implemented. It is therefore important for business and business that a survey of the available public company law tools for industrial development is established. Getting a comprehensive overview of today's tools, identifying the resources available to different companies in the different phases, sizes and sectors where they belong is a simplification that the entire committee supports. Developing today’s supply of pilot and demonstration projects and access to capital at an early stage is also the focus of the Committee. There is a joint committee that welcomes the government's support for the creation and further development of national business angels networks and the responsibility of Innovation Norway for supporting the establishment and establishment of such networks. This stimulates private access to capital in the early stages. The Committee welcomes the fact that such networks can be linked to new seed funds or similar environment. The Committee supports the steps taken to transfer ownership to Investinor from a subsidiary of Innovation Norway to NHD and supports the proposed change in Investinor’s mandate. We also agree that the main areas, the environment, energy, marine, maritime and travel life are extended to include ICT, bio- and health technologies. The Committee is united in the view of the important role of the Design Council in creating greater emphasis on the importance of design as an instrument for development and growth, and in using good design as an instrument to improve profitability and competitiveness for Norwegian business. We also welcome red-green greetings from a strategic work with a new plan for Norwegian design. A Joint Committee supports the intention to establish a professional and robust function in the public tools – Invest in Norway – for the holistic management of requests by foreign companies assessing localisation in Norway. A Joint Committee welcomes the further development of the provision of public support to pilot and demonstration facilities. The same debt increases access to capital at an early stage, which is a major need. The notification shall notify up to six new seed funds, which shall be nationwide and shall be located in all regions. That is why it is very gratifying for us red-green that funds for two new seed funds were put in place in the revised version. I just have to admit that I don't understand presented to the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party to turn one of the seed funds into seed funds, or pollen capital, but this is exactly what I expect the party itself to do in its contributions. It is also inconceivable in the Committee that the seed funds should be placed in all parts of the country, as we would like to see red-green. Norway is a good country to live in, and there is no doubt that the government's policy is working. The companies are making money. There are more employment sets than ever. SSB figures show that job growth has quadrupled only in the last year. Norway enjoys its position in several international circles, including the United States and Japan. in the case of competitiveness and ‘Doing Business’. Finally, I would like to point out that in April, NCE NODE received the international gold label award. This distinction shows that the government’s policy is functioning and being noticed beyond borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4327	The next speaker is Per Roar Bredvold, who has a speaking time of up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4330	I'll try to spend a little bit shorter time. The size was finally presented to the long-term evaluation of the State instrument, including Innovation Norway and SIVA. Much of what is contained in this Communication is unanimously endorsed by the Committee, but there is also much that has been undone and many changes that should have been considered in a larger picture. Government parties chose to press through the proceedings in the Committee in a relatively short time, so this has helped to prevent, among other things, The Progress Party in providing a good and well-worked overall alternative to the way in which the instrument is organised today. We will therefore, at a later stage, promote a number of proposals relating to this field in the coming period, but which require a little more time to calculate the effects and costs associated with it. When evaluating the State instrument, it almost makes no sense to take out the research-related part of the system and to warn that it will come back to an evaluation of the Research Council and the research framework conditions at a later stage of the Research Communication. The notified message was meant to come in the current year, as I understand it, but there is a lot of evidence that this will come first in the spring. The fact that you do not see this in a context now weakens the whole matter that we now have to deal with, and not least the quality of the work and the expectations that are created related to the matter. It should be obvious to most that if innovation and innovation are to be achieved in the business world, research and development are very often a means of identifying the opportunities that a person has ahead of him in a market that is often characterised by great competition, and not necessarily by the greatest margins. Of course, we just have to bear in mind that the government has not been able to co-operate, so we will come back to the research framework when the research report will finally be submitted to Stortinget. As I said earlier in my speech, there is a great deal of agreement in the vote. This applies both to the fact that the government announces that both SIVA and Innovation Norway will strengthen their top competence and, not least, to clarify the responsibilities of the companies between them. It is also gratifying that it will now be ensured that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, in cooperation with the departments concerned, will take the initiative to monitor effectively the available public enterprise-oriented economic development instruments. The Progress Party also supports the transfer of responsibility to Investinor from Innovation Norway to the Ministry. The condition for optimum operation is, of course, that an external board of directors should remain in place for the company, as confirmed by the Council of State in an answer to a question from the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes it is important that it is always the idea and the ability of the final product to succeed that must focus on the instrument, and then regardless of where the individual company is located, or what is the individual's residence address, gender, etc. The resources allocated to maintain residence and individual industries shall be taken over the ordinary allocations through the State budget and not above the budgets of Innovation Norway. The so-called BU funds are an example of this. This has also been pointed out by the Riksrevision in its report Document No. 3:4 for 2008-2009, where reference was made to the small contribution of the BU Facility to the achievement of its objectives. It is good that the government proposes to set up six new seed funds. This is important in the sense that at least one of these funds is earmarked for a very early stage of corporate development – the so-called pollen phase – and it turns out that often at this early stage there are problems in obtaining private risk capital. The Progress Party believes that it is also important that the instrument should not compete with the private investor market where this works well, but that it should be possible to cooperate in the interests of economic development. This applies both to the loan market and to R & D activities. It is obvious that businesses themselves know best what they need to carry out research and development in order to be competitive. It is therefore important that instead of having to submit applications for contributions to the public, it is possible to use own resources in return for a tax deduction. It is therefore important to lift the limits on the number of hours and hourly rates of self-produced R & D in the context of the TaxFUNN. I am promoting the proposal on which the Progress Party and the Right are united and signal that we will support the Left's proposal, No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4351	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4354	In connection with Report. St. 22 for 2011–2012, Growth Tools, we are dealing with government policies for the development of Innovation Norway and SIVA. Both institutions are important tools for facilitating good nutrition from the public sector. In the Right we have also met through our meetings with the business community on many sunny stories about the business meeting with these institutions. This room will also say that both Innovation Norway and SIVA have made a significant contribution to the development of innovative solutions and industrial development in rural areas. We in the Right have some critical comments on this matter. First of all, we believe that some measures need to be taken to improve the instruments, so that they will give Norway increased competitiveness in the future as well. Preparing for the future means, in the opinion of the Right, that we are facilitating the competitiveness of Norwegian business to meet the challenges of the global arena. With the high level of Norwegian costs as a platform, our business needs to be among the best technological and among the most efficient and innovative to compete. This is a competition we don't have to play qualifying rounds to get into. We're in an endless tournament game. Norway, with its business and modern public sector, is a technological superpower. We are also – measured against the vast majority – able to produce both rationally and efficiently. So it's only when we get to our innovative power that we lose terrain measured against other nations we should compare with. We have to take that seriously. This government and Innovation Norway uses the following definition of innovation: ‘a new product, service, new production process, application or form of organisation that has been launched on the market or put into production to generate economic values.’;» In the Right's view, the definition is good. It's descriptive, points forward and gives a good picture of why we need to focus on innovation when we talk about industrial policy. Therefore, we in the Right are surprised to note that it is not possible to include the Research Council and the research framework conditions and funding in the notification. Research and development is, in the Right's view, a very central and natural theme in an innovation debate. That's why we're wondering that the government can't see this in the context. When Innovation Norway was established in 2004, a number of cultures were merged to create a powerful tool for food and district development. Policies that facilitate innovation and policies that facilitate rural development can, but do not necessarily, be two sides of the same coin. In the right we believe that the message lacks a clearer distinction between these two. The geographical demarcation of innovation policy can, in the Right’s view, limit innovation, which is the opposite of what the Right believes is the objective of such a policy. At the same time, we believe that limiting rural development due to the lack of innovative target formulations cannot be a desired policy either. We've been able to describe both of these issues in several places in the last few years. On the right, it would stress that the objective of Innovation Norway is to contribute to knowledge-based growth and value creation. For this reason, consideration should be given to opportunities for projects that do not contribute to innovation to be added to another management. The challenges of innovation in Norway today, with a low level of innovation, are often important tasks that contribute to both conversion and development in regions and municipalities. In the right, we are well aware that there is a high level of competence in Norwegian municipalities in this type of project, for example under the BU Facility, and that it should be considered to decentralise such tasks – which will also help innovation in Norway to focus its activities on fewer and more innovative tasks. In the Right we constantly have to talk about taxes, and taxes are an important tool, also in such a debate. Using tax incentives to strengthen the innovative power of businesses is, in the Right's view, much more the right way to go. Development models based on the needs of enterprises and seeking innovation have better prospects for success than for enterprises to use resources to adapt to public programmes and processes. Therefore, the right supports the positive wording on the tax regimes in this Communication, but believes that these need to be strengthened and improved, as we have proposed in our draft budgets in recent years. The notification is unclear as to the incubation and early-stage capital instruments and how the State can strengthen its role in supporting and commercialising early-stage companies. The right considers that the nationwide start-up grants are a scheme that takes this stage and that has had an excessive reduction in amounts in recent years. In the notes to the right, the NCE programmes and the Arena programme, which are successful cluster programmes, are financed by Innovation Norway, while the Research Council finances the TTO programmes and the SIVA incubator programme. All these actors have instruments and grant schemes designed for early-stage projects. In the right, we believe that there is a need for better coordination of the instruments, so that they can be more focused on the most innovative growth enterprises. The right will therefore stress what the government itself writes in the communication, that there is a strong need for further development of the instrument portfolio and assumes that it will involve evaluations of the effectiveness of what is deployed by resources in the different types of instrument. Then to the seed fund scheme. The right is positive that new funds are being announced. Six funds are promised, and we record the capitalisation of two funds in the last revised budget. The right would point out that it is absolutely necessary that the new seed scheme should also be able to attract private capital. With the high risk to investors present in new innovative and internationally oriented enterprises, it is essential that the seed scheme be designed to attract private capital and competences. We are aware that the requirement is private capital, but the mechanism of the funds should also be such as to attract that capital. In the right, we are unsure whether the scheme for the proposed cereal funds – as reflected in the revised national budget 2012 with a reduction in the risk relief from today’s 25 pst. to 15 pst. – will trigger the necessary private capital, and considers that the government in its further work on the organisation of new seed funds must pay particular attention to the establishment of sufficient incentive mechanisms to trigger private capital. The right also points out that the funds should be set up in such a way as to enable the seed funds to take risks and invest in enterprises with an assumed undissolved potential. The right would also stress that regardless of the allocation of the management of the funds, the funds shall be nationwide in their investment activities. As I said earlier, it is regrettable that the research section has not been evaluated in such an important report. We also record that the government in the notification calls for a review of Innovation Norway’s instruments, anchoring a new target structure and the company’s portfolio of instruments. The right-hand share of the Ministry's view that this has not been addressed in this communication, but believes that it should have been. In the light of the strong criticism that came from the National Audit Office on the achievement of the objectives and use of resources in the company, we are also considered when we read that Innovation Norway itself should be given the task of proposing concrete simplifications of its own portfolio. This sounds a little bit clumsy. Summaries are that the Right also believes that we need more knowledge, and we are therefore looking forward to getting on the table the results of the notified evaluations. The lack of integrity of the knowledge base means that the Right does not go for the Left's proposal, No. 2 but here we would like to announce support for the Left's proposal, No. 3, on an enhanced incubation strategy, placed under SIVA. Finally, the Right will reiterate that the principle that companies themselves create and control their innovation, in many cases, provides a robust model. Therefore, the right considers that the tax FUNN scheme should be strengthened and that direct tax deductions should be granted for research and development investments. These are tax systems that are proven to work well and on which we need to invest. As said above, companies themselves are the best ones to define their needs for innovation and new ways of working in order to remain competitive. This is the Right-wing Reason for the proposal to lift the limit on hours and hours of self-produced research and development related to the TaxFUNN.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4404	It's going well in the Norwegian economy. Much of Europe is struggling with debt crisis, very high unemployment and reduced economic activity. Norway, on the other hand, has the economy, high employment and growth in the mainland economy. But there's no need to lie down on the laurel. Crisis in Europe can have consequences for us. At the same time, we see trends towards a two-way split in the Norwegian economy. Oil-related business is going very well, while other parts of the business are facing major challenges. It is important to focus on innovation and innovation in order to create a versatile and robust business that can have a perspective beyond the age of oil. With this big message, the government has strengthened the innovation system, and it is good to see that the opposition supports most of what has been proposed. SV is busy creating viable nutrient clusters. Cooperation between large and small enterprises and universities or higher education institutions has proved to be an important step forward in the development and realisation of new ideas. Business clusters have the capacity to promote innovation in established enterprises and have the potential to develop new entrepreneurs. A few years ago, the Right would cut into parts of supported clusters. It is therefore positive that the opposition has now turned around and expressed a very positive opinion on clusters. But there is reason to note that many clusters of nutrients are supported by regional development funds, and here we see in the revised national budget that Right will continue to cut, thus reducing potential support for establishing and maintaining clusters around the country. The pilot phase is a bottleneck in the innovation chain of many places in Norway. Many good projects for new processes and products are never realized, because it is difficult to finance pilot plants to test on a full scale. SV is dedicated to strengthening public efforts at this stage of development. We are therefore very pleased that the government will further develop the support schemes for pilot and demonstration facilities. Innovation Norway is currently providing support to pilot plants through the Eco-Technology Scheme, and this has proved to be very effective. This is one of the best feedback schemes when we travel around and talk to the companies, so it's positive that the experience that we have there, with also being able to support pilots, can be transferred to several programs. Many users point out that the support schemes in Innovation Norway are too fragmented and too detailed. The application process can be complicated and comprehensive in relation to the payments made to enterprises. SV is therefore pleased that the government will review the aid schemes in order to simplify them. It is a point to add the clues to the result and not so much to the detail management of the assignment. SV is busy using public procurement to generate innovation from private suppliers. The OFU scheme is an important measure to promote such innovation, but more is available in this area. SV is therefore pleased that the government will present a strategy to promote innovation through public procurement. SV is particularly concerned that in the health and care sector, we have a high potential to create innovation among suppliers, and we have seen that several key players in both research and business have pointed to a large potential to become a growth industry for an international market. Lack of risk capital is a problem for innovation and innovation. It is gratifying that the government is now to establish up to six nationwide seed funds. SV is also busy by entrepreneurs at an early stage, both in terms of advice and funding. It is important to further develop the supply when it comes to the very early stages of the innovation system, and to support entrepreneurs, both with early capital and good advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4427	First, I would like to thank the representative, Ingrid Heggø, for a very good contribution. The government has provided a major communication on the instrument of enterprise policy, Innovation Norway and SIVA SF. The centre party, which simplifies business as one of its main areas of activity, is very pleased that the government is now drawing up ambitions and directions for a simplification of the overall service provision of Innovation Norway – in dialogue with owners and contracting entities. We would like to stress that the less time it takes for those who create economic development in our country to get involved in the various aid schemes in the country, the more time they have to improve their own business. Norway has benefited from this, as have the entrepreneurs and the owners themselves. After many years of experience from work that facilitates entrepreneurs and business development, I look forward to such simplification. This is what entrepreneurs and businesses have been asking for over a long time. This red-green government is doing something about it. Regional development has always been a central premise in the instrumentation, and the Centre Party is therefore pleased to present a communication that makes it clear that this will continue to be central to Innovation Norway and SIVA. For Norway as a nation, it is important to give an advantage to innovative enterprises that have such a location that they have less access to capital. Therefore, the Centre Party has always been clear that this dimension of the instrument is to be continued. There is a lot of innovation in businesses across the country, both in cities and districts. Competence, research and development are of central importance here. For the Centre Party, it is therefore important that Innovation Norway and SIVA continue to be equipped to contribute to investment, growth and innovation around our country. The Communication states that funds should be used around the country and not centralised. This has been essential for the Center Party. We are pleased that there are clear indications for this in the message. Agriculture is an important part of the overall economy in large parts of the district of Norway. Innovation Norway provides the BU scheme with a competence in the field of industrial development that cannot be easily replaced by alternative management schemes. Therefore, following an overall assessment, the government believes that Innovation Norway will continue to cover tasks related to agro-business development in the future. The centre party supports this assessment. The notification states that, in the light of the instrument, businesses and entrepreneurs must not become even smaller. The centre party fights daily for an active industrial policy in all parts of the country, and it is therefore important to hold on to the fact that it is not going to be more difficult to achieve in the instrument than it is today. The notification confirms that SIVA is given a clearer mandate as an industrial developer and to work on major projects related to physical property investment of local, regional and national importance. It's important. Business gardening programmes are also of great importance and contribute to a great deal of growth and development around the country. The same applies to the incubators. One of the messages is an entirely new body, Invest in Norway, which is set up to handle enquiries from foreign companies that assess location in Norway. The center party thinks it's positive. The central party also welcomes the consensus that the State-owned investment company Investinor can now also invest in companies in some new areas. Until now, the mandate of Investinor has been to invest in Norwegian enterprises in expansion in areas such as energy, environment, marine, maritime and travel. These areas will remain central in the future. With the new Communication, the Government announces that Investinor will now also invest in companies in key areas such as biotechnology, health and ICT as well. The centre party is satisfied with the communication on the instrument of industrial policy, Innovation Norway and SIVA submitted by the government. We are particularly pleased that simplification of service provision is now being introduced, that the regional dimension is fixed, and that it is not going to be more difficult to reach through to the instrument. It's important for business, it's important for entrepreneurs, and it's important to give growth power in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4446	Initially, I would like to say that I am surprised that it was added up to such a short treatment period for this very important matter. This makes it more difficult to carry out a thorough evaluation of the State agency and SIVA. We also find it strange that the government does not include an evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council in the Storingsmessage. The government reports that they will come back to it in their own case. We believe that it would have been most natural to include the evaluation of the Research Council and the framework conditions for the research in this matter. A central point of the Communication is that the government will coordinate and strengthen cooperation between Innovation Norway, SIVA and the Norwegian Research Council. However, the Christian People’s Party is pleased that the notification is based on a broad consultation where different actors have reported their experiences in meeting Innovation Norway and SIVA. Important observations have been made that Innovation Norway takes on its case handler role in a professional and good manner, but that the company is less able to fulfil the role of a knowledge organisation and a premiscuous supplier of Norwegian enterprise policy. A clarification of the company's objectives and instruments combined with a criteria-based assessment of the achievement of the target is therefore in place, in our view, and we agree with the conclusions of the position at this point. Briefly summarised: more focus on results, less on reporting. We also note that Norway is being praised by the OECD for a well-functioning tool to produce entrepreneurs, growth businesses and innovative business environments. The instrument is concentrated in few organisations with relatively good work sharing, also compared to other Scandinavian countries. The development of new and innovative ideas is often useful for more enterprises than only those developing them. However, the development of ideas can often involve a greater risk than that of the available investor. Therefore, public project support can be a decisive trigger for entry into service, even outside the most central growth areas. The Christian People's Party will therefore express satisfaction with the government's emphasis on good dialogue with the county municipalities as joint owners of Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway is a very important player in regional economic development, both now and in the future. We will also support the government’s conclusion that the rural development funds will continue to be managed by Innovation Norway. The competence for industrial development with which Innovation Norway can contribute is important for the optimal use of BU funds. However, we believe that one should not be blinded to what public tools can do to trigger new innovative activities. In such processes, where possible, a private competence should also be involved, not least the competence to build up in connection with the NCE system. It is very important to facilitate and further develop such clusters. When they reach a level of maturity that makes them competitive globally, they should also be provided with the possibility to operate globally. As an example, the maritime cluster on the North West can be mentioned. The government is constantly pointing to the importance of the start-up of enterprises in Norway. It is strange that there is no greater emphasis on increased investment in the incubator programme, where the NCE clusters are important actors. In our opinion, this is one of the most effective programmes in Norway to assist entrepreneurs and create new ones. In our remarks in the vote, we ask the government to make proposals on how to strengthen the incubator programme in the context of next year's government budget. We record that the Left in its proposal, No. 3, until the case, it puts into practice the challenge to the government in a good way, and therefore states that the Christian People's Party will also support that proposal. It is also important to attract foreign investors and companies to Norway. Christian People's Party supports the establishment of Invest in Norway as part of the instrumentation. Guidance to foreign companies assessing localisation in Norway is important. We believe that foreign companies that establish a locality and have economic activity in Norway should be able to use the Norwegian instrumentation in the same way as Norwegian customers. The Christian People’s Party also supports the establishment of six new nationwide seed funds and the recapitalisation of two of these funds during 2012. However, we want one of these funds to be earmarked for enterprises in the 'pollen phase', i.e. a very early and risky phase in their creation where it is particularly difficult to obtain capital and advice. The Christian People's Party aims at Norway being the world's most innovative and innovative country. Innovation and economic development release resources that can be used for other societal purposes. New and established small businesses are central — without them stopping Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4467	After the 2009 elections, the Left promoted a proposal for a representative to reorganise and release Innovation Norway. It actually created a very big and good debate here in the main hall on December 14th that year. The prerequisite for our proposals was that we were willing to draw those whose government council was going to evaluate Innovation Norway, which he announced he would do. There was to be a big message, and it was to be completed in the autumn of 2010. In this context, we did not promote the original proposals in the draft representative. Studies at the time showed that only half of the projects supported by Innovation Norway were actually innovative. Our proposals were about getting the most innovation out of the public funds to go for just such purposes. After that, we in the Left have promoted two other representative proposals, one on the distortion of public resources in the start-up phase for start-up companies with high growth potential, which we promoted in December 2010, and proposals on capital reform for increased innovation and entrepreneurship that we promoted in March this year. I record that the Progress Party and the Right have addressed the issues raised in the proposals, in comments in the vote, while the government parties clearly believe that everything works well enough as it is. So to the individual companies and the instruments. In the case of Innovation Norway, the Left shares many of the objectives set out in the message: simplifying the instrument portfolio, strengthening Innovation Norway as an innovation policy advisor and clarifying that the management of the rural development funds is in line with the Left’s thinking – what we asked to sharpen Innovation Norway. The problem is that there are few, if at all, instruments in the message to achieve the goals you have set. It is my and Left's clear view that our proposal to split up, sharpen and release Innovation Norway is in no way less topical now than when we promoted it in 2009. That's why we're taking it up again today. So to SIVA, which has come in many ways in the shadow of Innovation Norway. That's unearthed, because SIVA is in many ways a success story in Norway. SIVA has established 50 incubator environments around the country. Ownership is distributed between SIVA, private business, municipalities, universities and higher education institutions. The key to success is that the environments can use each other's strengths. Each year, 150 new entrepreneurs are helped to develop and grow. Since the start-up of the incubator programme in 2000, more than 1 000 enterprises have been given this opportunity. Last summer I visited one of these environments, the Leiv Eiriksson Innovation in Trondheim. There I was presented for SIVA's wish for a new incubator strategy for 2012, just to substantiate the good results that SIVA can show. The response from the government was a rather surprising no thanks. There were no appropriations on the state budget for 2012, and little or nothing is said about this when the message is being processed today. When the Storting will deal with the revised national budget tomorrow, the Left will propose to strengthen the SIVA incubator strategy, which means both increased funding for programme funding and increased equity in the incubation environment. So finally to Investinor. The left hand side probably does not share the Investinor enthusiasm expressed by the Committee in its configuration. In the view of the Left, Investinor appears to be both heavy and slightly unfocused. There are very few companies that can actually benefit from Investinor's investment opportunities, as they are today defined. The most concrete thing we've seen in recent years is the plans to join private investors in raiding Alpine sites in the East. In the view of the Left, it cannot be the best way to use state resources to contribute to increased innovation. Investinor has 3.7 billion today. kr in available investment capital, of which only a fraction has actually been used. The left considers that these are funds that should have been used much more specifically, and that the instruments under Investinor could have been used more targetedly under a reorganised and released Innovation Norway. Investinor should therefore be liquidated in the long term. In line with this, the Left does not support the proposal to transfer ownership to Investinor from Innovation Norway to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Finally, I would also like to say that it is strange that this treatment has taken so long. Then I'll take up the two suggestions from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4498	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4501	The purpose of industrial policy is to maximise total value creation in the Norwegian economy and work for all. The Norwegian economy is going well. We have good growth in the Norwegian economy – and significantly higher growth in 2012 than in the first quarter of 2011. The growth is shown in both the production of goods and services. The number of persons employed also increased by around 20 000 persons from the fourth quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012. A number of economic indicators point the right way for Norway. At the same time, there is a trend towards a third of business. The part of the business that supplies goods and services to the oil and gas sector is doing well, while industries that depend on demand for other export products are divided between those that are doing well and those that are struggling. In recent years, the international economy has been unstable and the prospects for the future are uncertain. The crisis in the euro area has increased, with increasing government debt and unemployment. In some emerging economies, growth is still high and contributes, among other things. to maintain a high oil price. Norway is not unaffected by developments in the international economy. An OECD report presented in May highlights the potential for a worsening of the euro area crisis as the main threat to the Norwegian economy. Although the development of Norwegian business is mainly good today, and although today’s unemployment is low, we must constantly work for the business life of the future and for the value creation of the future. The government facilitates a business that is sustainable, innovative, knowledge-based and adaptable. Key industrial policy efforts go through the design of good general framework conditions. This includes, inter alia: a responsible economic policy, well-developed infrastructure, a good education system and good welfare arrangements. However, good framework conditions alone are not sufficient to trigger maximum value creation. That is why we need to complement the general framework conditions with business-oriented instruments, including: through Innovation Norway and SIVA. Innovation Norway and SIVA manage high values and take decisions of great importance for entrepreneurs, businesses and business environments. There are strong requirements for the management and operation of the companies and there are great demands on the achievement of the objectives of the companies. In addition to the annual follow-up and reporting to the Stortinget, the government has carried out extensive company evaluations in recent years. This was notified in St.meld No. 7 for 2008-2009, An innovative and sustainable Norway. The evaluations, the consultation rounds and the recording conference organised in the context of the work on this communication show to a large extent that Innovation Norway and SIVA manage their tasks well and that the results are good. Nevertheless, there is always room for improvement and for further development of companies. In this Communication to the Government, the Government draws up the lines for the further development of Innovation Norway and SIVA. The Communication presents new objectives for Innovation Norway and for SIVA. Good and clear objectives are necessary to ensure good governance and easy reporting. The new objectives clarify the achievement of the companies and lay the basis for a more overall governance of the contracting entities. The new objective of SIVA underlines that the company should be the country’s instrument for the organisation of ownership and development of enterprises and the business and knowledge environments throughout the country. It is also stressed that SIVA has a special responsibility for regional growth. The main objective of the SIVA is to trigger profitable business development in enterprises and regional business and knowledge environments. These objectives shall be achieved by the SIVA through its property activities and its innovation activities. The SIVA objectives underline, inter alia: that the company has a role to play in major industrial projects. The Government is committed to the future contribution of the SIVA to the development of several major property projects of local, regional and national importance. For the purpose of Innovation Norway, it is emphasised that the company should be the State and county authorities’ instrument for realising value-creating business development throughout the country and that the main objective is to trigger business and socio-economical economical economical development throughout the country. It will be achieved by working for more good entrepreneurs, more high-growth enterprises and more innovative business environments. The notification draws up the guidelines on how the State can exercise its ownership of the companies. An overview is also provided of how the owners of Innovation Norway will jointly follow up on how the company works in strategically important areas. In addition to following up the simplification work, the owners will follow in particular how the company meets the customers, how the company works in the field of internationalisation and how the company plays the role of adviser to owners and contracting entities. The Communication contains a number of measures that will strengthen the efforts of Innovation Norway and SIVA for Norwegian business. Innovation Norway’s instrument portfolio should be simplified. The company currently has many schemes, and it may be difficult for companies to find out about relevant support options. The meeting of the companies with Innovation Norway and SIVA shall be simple and provide rapid clarification. At the same time as the company's portfolio is simplified, the ministerial management signals must also be coordinated and a common target and performance management system for all contracting entities must be established. This will make it easier for the company to report, and the contracting entities and the Storting will be better informed about the effects and the achievement of the objectives. The notification contains several early-stage measures for access to capital. Among other things, the notification announces the establishment of up to six new seed funds. The revised budget proposes a framework for the first two Funds. It is intended that each fund should have a total capital of approximately 500 million. kr. The Communication outlines a more flexible mandate for the Investinor. The investor currently has a total investment capital of SEK 3.7 billion. kr. In addition, it is announced that the ownership of Investinor is transferred from Innovation Norway to the Ministry of Industry. The Communication announces the development of the offer of early stage capital and the development of the offer of pilot and demonstration projects. I will also give Innovation Norway a mandate to support the establishment and development of business angels' networks. This group of investors will be able to benefit from networks linked to seed funds or incubators. Many Norwegian companies compete in international markets, and internationalisation is therefore a central part of innovation in Norway’s activities both at district offices in Norway and at foreign offices. In the Communication, it is clear that the government will strengthen the company’s work on internationalisation. The presence in Asia and Africa should be strengthened and cooperation between the actors in the instrument should be improved. A separate Strategic Council for Innovation Norway’s international presence shall also be established. And there will be a new function – Invest in Norway – that will handle in a professional and active way enquiries from foreign companies that are considering their establishment in Norway. The government is working for a fully-fledged and competent instrument that has relevant and effective offers to the Norwegian business community. This Communication reviews the objectives, working methods, cooperation and instruments used by companies to assist Norwegian businesses in meeting the challenges we face in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4575	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4578	We agree more than disagree on this message – no doubt about it. That's good. Industry development needs strong support from Stortinget. If I'm going to mention some of the things we disagree about -- and maybe disappointed -- it's that you've taken out the research-related part of the system. It is announced that the Research Council and the research framework will be evaluated. My question is then: Why is this not part of the message – and when will it come?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4585	It is the Ministry of Knowledge that is responsible for the Research Communication. Of course, we are working closely against them in order to achieve the best possible relationship between what is happening in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is the second largest department of research, and what is happening in the Ministry of Knowledge – not least getting a better link between the various instruments. This is quite clear in the communication that we want to achieve and that we need to follow it up when designing research policy. Ideally, you might want to have the messages at the same time, but we thought it was important to promote this Communication for Innovation Norway and SIVA, even though the Research Communication was not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4590	Innovation can be measured in many ways. The EU has an institute called ‘Innovation Union Scoreboard’, which measures the innovation power of nations, and unlike the other Nordic countries, Norway is in quite a bad position there — a 17th place. I register that Innovation Norway on its pages writes that when FIFA measures how good football is, we get very good scores, so you don't always have to care about such measurements. It may be interesting to hear from the Council of State: What are the things in this message that you want to highlight, which you think – if you are going to predict – will raise Norway’s ranking on the ‘Innovation Union Scoreboard’? – So, what will strengthen our innovative power in this message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4597	After all, we maintain a very high level of support for public efforts towards innovation. There are few countries that have such an expanded state system to give money to business. Ideally, business might have made it through its own power, but we know that interaction between public and private is giving greater results. If I'm going to say what I think this message is going to lead most to, it's that we're spending the money better, that we're getting more efficient and targeted schemes, that it's going to be easier for companies to focus on innovation in Norway and SIVA systems, that it's the best projects that get supported, and not necessarily the best project applications. It should be easy for entrepreneurs and others to get in touch with the support apparatus and use minimal time to find out the support functions and instead to obtain the most relevant support and assistance for them, in a simple way with minimum application and reporting bureaucracy. I think that might be the biggest promise, because that's when the money's better spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4604	There was basically music in the ears of a Right-Man. I would also like to know that there is a connection between how much money you collect from the companies in relation to how much the public has to return – that is the case. The Communication also sees the need to strengthen the role of Innovation Norway as political advisor to the government. It might seem a little bit wobbly at once. Does the Council have any thoughts on how Innovation Norway should at the same time maintain its independent role, if it is also important to use Innovation Norway as a political adviser?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4611	Let me first say that the level we have in Norway of taking money from both individuals and businesses, and then distributing it again in the form of welfare goods and good business arrangements, has proved to be a relatively high success, at least if we compare with our neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe. I think we've found a pretty good balance. With regard to the role of innovation in Norway as a consultant, we believe that Innovation Norway is in such strong contact with so many enterprises across the country that it would be foolish not to use the expertise and experience that Innovation Norway has in this way to provide good professional advice in the formulation of enterprise policy. The political priorities themselves are being discussed and formulated, as we have been chosen to do so. Innovation Norway should not have a political role, but they should give us good insights into how a good industrial policy can be even better, regardless of who is in government, and regardless of which course has been strung out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4618	It is not to be a mare, but the term ‘political adviser’ is used in the notification, and if you are to be a professional body to provide professional advice, it is not exactly good for Norwegian to give the institution such a stamp. Is it such that, in the opinion of the Council of State, a wrong concept has been used? Has the title ‘Policy Adviser’ been unlucky? Have you used the correct term?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4624	Now I don't have all the details in the message in front of me here, but I think it says ‘nutritional policy adviser’, that you should use the competence of Innovation Norway to give good advice in the formulation of business policy. As you know, advice can consist of many things. It may consist of input into a judgement or a political direction — which I think will be less the role of Innovation Norway — or it may be technical advice based on the experience and knowledge gained by Innovation Norway through contact with thousands of enterprises across the country. There is also advice in a business policy context, which we benefit from. I think Innovation Norway is an unused resource that can be used to provide these recordings. Then, as politicians in both the department, government and big business, we have to handle the advice we receive in a good way, and I am absolutely convinced that we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4633	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4636	An active enterprise policy with a good tool is important to our business. In Norway, we have a business life that goes well. In the last year, enterprises have created 64,000 new jobs in Norway – 2.6 pst. has been in the private and 2 pst. in the public sector. The government tool has been lubricated – well lubricated – and adapted to suit different needs. I would like to say that the financial crisis was a good example of the actual smearing of the apparatus. Not least now, in the revised national budget, which we will adopt here tomorrow, the focus has been on the wood industry, which needs a package of measures. Good lubricating tools should also be used in a normal situation, and this message is important. It has a more eaten tone, and the pace is very good. I want to commend especially the new government, Invest in Norway, which I believe is important in order to better facilitate a more systematic and comprehensive handling of enquiries by foreign companies that assess location and investment in Norway. It's an important grip to put in place a professional and robust function, which I think will be well received. The property investments of SIVA have a good and triggering effect on the development of property structure, especially in areas where market failure results in a high risk assessment by private actors. This can be an important factor, especially for the establishment of the Ironman project on the Tent Goods, which we, who are from More and Romesdal, know well. The government’s industrial policy has raised effective simplification measures. Also in the case of the instrumentation, there is a focus on simplification. As it is today, it is too demanding to be informed within different programmes. I have to say that this is a promise to ensure that the users of companies can easily be informed about the programmes and services that are to be especially in Innovation Norway. It is also positive and worth noting that Investinor has been given a new and more flexible mandate, including ICT and bio-health technologies. There is a lot of business in Norway that operates internationally. That is why I think the cooperation between Innovation Norway and the EEAS is positive, a cooperation that is now being strengthened because the Business Committee has also been out there and travelled a lot, and has received feedback on the Outpatient Offices of Innovation Norway. I believe that the device that is now being put on will be a better support for our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4653	It was quite costly to read the comments from the opposition in this case. Actually, I didn't get any sense of some formulations. I know that of course it can have something to do with me. For example, a note from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party states: ‘These members believe that much of what is presented as changes and measures in the notification is very sensible. This applies both to proposals for changes concerning target management and organisation.’;» So the same members say nine sentences further down in the comment: ‘These members have doubts as to whether the measures launched in the Communication will contribute to a particular simplification of Norwegian business tools.’ It stands for its own unfairness. I agree with the representative of Trine Skei Grande that SIVA might come in the shadow of Innovation Norway. So I'll talk a little bit about SIVA. The SIVA invests in and is an facilitating, long-term owner and developer of industrial and innovation centres. Over the years, SIVA, together with private and institutional actors, has built up a good basis for developing environmentally robust value creation and interesting jobs across the country. Therefore, there is a high demand for SIVA’s efforts to develop major projects of both national and international importance. Sigvald Rist is a guy from where I come from. He is the general manager of the Lofot product and says in the annual report to SIVA that SIVA was an important instrument to realize their dream, namely a new factory. SIVA chose to cooperate with Lofot product because they had a good operation and a great potential. The factory is located on the outskirts and would contribute to significant value creation locally, which made it very interesting and timely for SIVA to bet there. The result was very good. A place in the district where the Right and Advance Party would not have believed, fishcakes and other fish products are now produced, in a place where there are not always good weather days, where the farms are 150 miles from Oslo, and where the mountains rake. With the policies of the Right Party and the Advance Party in the matter, this factory might not have seen the light of day, given the address of residence, etc. I shall conclude with some wise words from our Minister of Industry. He says that in the new communication, the government is in favour of SIVA continuing to contribute to the development of several large property projects of local, regional and national importance in the future. They're an important lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4676	It is very positive that a unanimous nutrition committee so strongly calls for SIVA and Investinor. SIVA has an important role to play in developing and owning innovation property in cooperation with private individuals. We have some global knowledge nodes in Norway that we should be proud of. A good example is Atmel, whom I visited a short time ago. It's an impressive development center for microtechnology, established in Trondheim. Such companies they need more of. Even with a high wage level, Norway must be competitive. Good cooperation between large international groups, Norwegian enterprises and R & D environments is then necessary. Norway shall be an attractive host for investment by international companies. That's why we need SIVA. SIVA lowers the barriers to business start-up. Harald Kjelstad, CEO of SIVA, says: «More farms will grow and more entrepreneurs will grow. Therefore, SIVA shall continue to have the best tools in the toolbox.» That's what Stortinget is going to do to give them. Investinor also interacts and cooperates with private partners and is the only state-owned company that actively invests in non-listed companies. In other words, they go into the most important parts of the value creation in Norway. Investinor plays a very important role in public sector instruments. The extended mandate is a clear signal that Investinor delivers well. The investor shall offer capital and competent ownership at market prices, in cooperation with private investors. And as Geir Kjesbu, Managing Director of Investinor says, the new mandate will give an even clearer signal that Investinor will make its decisions on a commercial basis, and that the most important thing for Investinor is to invest in good companies. Both establishments are important for value creation in Norway. Our objective should be to enable both companies to develop further and to expand substantially their investment activities in relation to the current situation. I hope that the Minister of Industry will, after further consideration, show greater boldness than the message shows. For SIVA, this means that access to follow Norwegian enterprises should also be opened up internationally by investing in development property outside Norway. For the Investinor, the increased flexibility of the investment mandate should also lead to an extension of the mandate at the next crossroads, in order to allow the company to follow Norwegian companies with international potential even further into the value chain than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4703	The message we are handling here today, we have requested a number of times before, but today the mantra is that one should have waited until the Research Council was evaluated. There may be something in it, but it has to be decided, because either the message comes too late, or it comes too soon. If this is true of the labour force, I would like to show that in 2010-2011 the Business Committee is addressing 19 Document 8 proposals dealing with innovation and instruments. Many of these were reported on the spot after the notification of the evaluation. We also postponed six or seven Document 8 proposals to the fall dealing with the instrument tool, for example. in Innovation Norway and SIVA. The device of the new seed funds cannot easily be compared with the devices of the existing seed funds by saying that there is a reduction from 25 pst. the risk-absorption to 15 pst., as indicated by the comments of the opposition. For the first time, these 15 percent of the new funds should cover only private losses. Today's 25 pst. covers the state's funds also privately, and it is such that the state first takes its party to the deposit, then receives them privately. Another change is that the country should include equity rather than loans. Right will use more resources for nutritional purposes here today, for example. Incubator systems. This is in stark contrast to the budget of the Right last year, where the Right said it's unfortunate that state nutrition transfers have increased under this government. Again, we have to decide. Finally, a fun observation: In the setting, the Progress Party and the Right argue that support for the back-up schemes is made generic and nationwide. The Right Party and the Progress Party have a common note that the instrument should be set up to address industrial policy concerns, not district policy, and that out-of-office concerns such as: address of dwelling and sex not to be taken into account. Nevertheless, the Right Party and the Progress Party argued so late as in the budget for this year that Innovation Norway would allocate money to, for example: Innovation Furniture and Round Environmental Centre. Then it is nigh to ask: is it only the North-West that should be given priority with special arrangements and the other is general? Otherwise it is good that there is a deal about the main features of the message – it promises good for business in the future as well. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4716	I'm just going to quickly sign out a couple of things. First to the representative Lillian Hansen: it is fully possible to have a common view that new objectives need to be set, and at the same time, a little further down, have different perceptions of what kind of instruments to use to achieve those objectives. It's actually quite possible to have an idea that you have the same goal, and at the same time say that you have different ways of achieving it. There is no paradox in the comments the representative of Hansen read out. SIVA must be present throughout the country. We're not saying anything else about it, but we're saying that part of their property policy is going to be market-oriented. So to Ingrid Heggø: We have asked to get the message to the Stortinget, but we have not necessarily asked to get it through the Stortinget. We believe we got a little short time to work with the comments we have made. That's what's in it. There is a difference between asking to get something to the Storting, and asking to get it through the Storing quickly. So we haven't done that. So to the policy on innovation policy and district policy: the notification is to be seen, and the comments must be read in the light of the fact that we are talking here about policies for the future. We are quite clear in the remarks: District Policy and Innovation Policy we want to see as two different things. It is certainly possible to find both budgetary comments and other proposals from us backwards in time that contradict that picture, but we believe there should be two different policy areas – innovation policy should be one thing, and district policy should be something else. I dealt with it quite thoroughly in my post, so it disappointed me that not a waking representative like Hegø had it with him, but I can take it with her later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4729	It's been a long day, but we're awake. The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen is trying to explain the difference, but in the market it will always be more profitable to invest in key strokes. The lofoot can hardly be defined as central, but it is beautiful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4736	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4750	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4759	The Progress Party has proposed the creation of an ICT-hazard Commission – in line with the model of the Aviation Commission – to identify the cause of State ICT-hazards and ICT-related data protection breaches, and to add an existing body to its administration. In the light of the proposal, the proposers point out that the Norwegian authorities collect a large amount of information on the individual population. The proposers point out that data protection is not respected and that the authorities are leaking information to unauthorised persons. In the proposal for a representative, the proposers are in favour of an ICT-hazard Commission modelled precisely from the Aviation Commission in order to limit the adverse effects of the opportune treatment of sensitive personal data by the public and to identify the cause of state-owned ICT-hazards. The Committee has pointed out in its examination that the proposal concerns a number of worrying issues and considers it important that central government should give priority to privacy considerations. The proposal describes a number of problems with public ICT solutions and data protection challenges. There may be relationships with the tax authorities, the transport sector, the police, the emergency network, the health sector and Nav — examples from these areas underpin this type of issue. The Committee has pointed out in its consideration that the proposers believe that a Commission for ICT Hazaris and ICT-related data protection offences could prevent such problems from arising in the future. The majority of the Committee points out that the proposers do not mention the existing body to which they wish to add this Commission, but notes that this can be done within existing management. The establishment of a fixed breakdown commission, which is intended to cover such a large and defective area, is not necessarily the right medicine for the prescribed diagnosis and symptoms. It may be most appropriate to involve private actors in carrying out quality reviews and assessments. Here we can only refer to the Ministry of Industry's commitment to the Norwegian Veritas for the assessment of Altinn. At other times it may be best to use existing governmental bodies, where the Ministry of Consumers and Administration has used, among other things. National Safety Authority for the assessment of the safety in the Government Quartet. Flexibility is necessary. Improvements and good, up-to-date control and follow-up procedures are always needed. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, points out that the use of ICT solutions by the State covers a very wide range of areas and that it could be difficult for a single body to deal with all situations of injury and privacy. The government announced a big message about privacy next winter. Several of the issues raised in the proposal will be discussed here. In addition, in spring 2012, the government will issue revised national guidelines on information security, and we should probably be there by now. The majority propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. So to the views of the Right, where we stress that new technologies provide opportunities for also necessary innovation in several sectors. In the area of care for the elderly, technological solutions can also provide greater security and help more elderly people to live longer at home. Advanced safety alarms, so-called smart homes and new opportunities for online healthcare can help improve the quality of care for the elderly. The public must play a role as a demanding and competent demand for services using new technologies. Public shall and may stimulate innovation and thus improve resource use, inter alia. the care of the elderly by requiring service providers, whether public themselves or private service providers, to apply new technological solutions. It is important that the public take seriously its service function towards its citizens. In addition, it has a public responsibility for data protection. There is varying quality of digital provision in different parts of the public sector. It is important that departments and agencies also take this seriously, and that service is part of a culture and a system and not dependent on individuals. In addition, it is important that robust IT solutions are prioritised and that central government has secure computer systems. Public data on own activities and administration should be as accessible as possible to citizens, as this will make it easier for organisations and businesses to develop services. Today and in the future, it will be a matter of course for the consumer that information is available, about available children's playgrounds, health homes, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4782	The proposers address an important issue in this Document 8. Huge amounts of information about each of us are handled daily through the state's ICT systems, and security breaches can have serious consequences. Nor is there any doubt that technological developments face new data protection challenges, which we had extensive discussions about when we dealt with the Data Storage Directive. However, when the majority of the Committee, the Red-Green parties and the Right, have chosen not to support this proposal to set up their own ICT-Hazari Commission, it is related to the fact that we believe that it will not be a good enough measure. The use of ICT solutions by the country covers a very wide range of areas, and it will therefore be very difficult for a single body to deal with all adverse and privacy situations. Problems that will arise are different and often require very rapid action. There will then be a question of a disaster commission that will cover such an extensive area could have sufficient efficiency to deal with such a situation, as the rapporteur was also concerned. She also pointed to the example of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that engaged the Norwegian Veritas for the assessment of the ALTIN – this for the fastest possible assessment of what had caused the serious security breaches. I would also like to mention that we already have more supervision today that is responsible for some of the issues raised by the proposers. The data supervision is both supervisory and representative and has an important function in ensuring that personal data are kept safe. Serious breaches of the personal data law security provisions shall be notified to the supervisory authority and supervision may impose the correction of any errors and deficiencies. I therefore support the Council of State in – as it emerges from her letter to the Committee – that there is already a system to protect privacy when failure of the ICT systems leads to accidental disclosure of data of value for protection. The Post and Telecommunications Authority also has a role as a disaster commission for events in the ecosystem. Providers shall report supervisory outcomes and events. The Postal and Telecommunications Authority then assesses what has happened and needs any action, and reports on it to the Ministry of Transport. Technological development challenges us on privacy. Sensitive information about us is handled and stored by a number of agencies, both public and private. Violations of the security provisions that result in unauthorised access to personal data can have significant consequences for individuals and are unacceptable. I am therefore very pleased that the government is working on a communication to the Stortinget on privacy. The notification will affect both the applicable laws and developments in the field of privacy. The Communication will also address the challenge — and potential — of developing new information technologies. This will give the Storting a good opportunity to have a broad review of the privacy challenge we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4801	Of course, this issue is both about privacy and not least about all the challenges we have seen when we were going to introduce new ICT systems in the public sector. There is no doubt that the public sector has been affected by a wide range of ICT scandals. This is about, for example: The autosys system, which is to ensure that the vehicle is registered, that the correct charging calculations are made, etc. Initially, the cost was 250 million. NOK, and now they're over 750 million. kr, i.e. a tripling of the costs of introducing an ICT system into the State Road Service. You can wonder why you should always put in place your own new systems and not use any of what is used in other countries outside Europe. You have to create your own, completely special system every time. I can also mention Altin and the serious security breach that happened there on Tuesday 20 March. 1500 to 2000 people saw the profile with the birth number of the Oslo-manner Kenneth – in 36 years – when he logged in to check the tax return. Missing ICT systems at Oslo hospitals have ended up with a situation where the patient record is sent by taxi and mail between the different hospitals. ICT problems in the courts have led to the rewriting of judges who have disappeared from the computer system because of the loss of protocols. There have been situations in which co-judges who have been called in to sign the final judgment have had to go home with an incorrect case because it has not been possible to print. The defense's Gulf project became such a major scandal that eventually you ended up changing the entire name of the project to LOS – perhaps a better name. On 1 May, the medical system for the hospitals in Drammen, Bærum, Ringerijke and Kongsberg was out of service for more than six hours, and the hospitals had to work without information about the patients. It could have had fatal consequences. The government obviously has no control over the costs of the emergency network project, which has been repeatedly suspended. There is evidence of a lack of control when the construction of the emergency power grid was first granted 525.6 million. kr in the state budget aged 2011 and then 2 bn. kr in the State budget for 2012, and then to reduce the appropriations by 1.3 billion. kr in the revised national budget 2012. A well-functioning emergency network is the lacmus test of whether a modern society is able to secure its citizens when accidents and injuries occur. Our point is not to hang people out, but to get the Norwegian public sector to start learning from all the mistakes that have been made in ICT projects. In the transport sector, we have the State's Committee on Transport, which is just going to draw lessons from how we can improve safety on Norwegian roads, on the sea and on the railways. A State ICT-hazard Commission will in the long term be able to save the state for billions of dollars, which are no longer wasted on ICT projects that fail. It is positive – very positive indeed – that the Christian People's Party supports our proposal, and I would like to thank for a good cooperation with Hareide. However, it is all the more difficult to understand the comments of the Right in the case. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party refer to a proposal we had together with Røres Bent Höie to establish a state finance arrangement of 10 billion. kr for ICT efforts in healthcare. The right would not even agree to refer to this proposal, which the right has put itself behind a previous case. The right has so far been associated with the Progress Party in the fight against distance ATK, but has now chosen to stand outside important remarks on how distance ATK challenges privacy. The main reason why ICT projects in the public sector often fail is that ordering skills in the public sector can be too poor. The party believes that it is high time that the Norwegian authorities began to learn from all the errors that have been made in public ICT projects. ICT systems are becoming increasingly complex, and more and more knowledge is required, which the public sector may seem to be lacking. I would like to take up the proposal promoted by the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4833	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4836	It is positive that the Storting is committed to getting more out of ICT investment in general government and, at the same time, to strong privacy. The representative proposal presents a number of examples of challenges facing tax authorities, the transport sector, the police, the emergency network, the health sector and Nav. I believe that the proposal deals with two main issues. One concerns the planning and implementation of ICT projects in the public sector at the agreed time, quality and cost. The second concerns the strengthening of privacy. In April, the government presented the digitisation programme Online with its citizens. It contains common objectives and strategies for digitising public administration in the years to come. The management shall provide comprehensive and user-friendly digital services. The services shall be based on a secure infrastructure which shall also take into account privacy considerations. In order to develop the digital services of the future, we need, inter alia, to: continue to develop and use common components such as: Altinn, electronic ID, Folkeregisteret, Matrikkelen and the Device Register. Good security and privacy are important in this work. In addition, laws and regulations need to be adapted for digital communications, as demonstrated by the Government’s digitisation programme. The government will shortly present new national guidelines on information security. ICT security will also be addressed in particular in the forthcoming Annual Report of the Ministry of Justice on Social Security. Quality assurance of public ICT investment is done in several ways. The Ministry of Finance's quality assurance scheme for large investments is an important contribution. My ministry is now sending annual circulars with overall demands for ICT investment in the state and projects promoted are reviewed separately by the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs. Divi has a project guide.no for both large and smaller ICT projects. Some ICT investment has greater uncertainty and risks than other projects. That's why we're doing an extra job improving these things. At the same time, a single technical challenge cannot stop the development and deployment of new technologies. Increased use of technology can pose challenges for citizens' privacy. One option that we want to exploit is the technology itself. This applies, inter alia, to: solutions for electronic access to personal data. The point is, as the Committee is in its position, the use of privacy-promoting technology and embedded privacy. Privacy shall be an element of development from the start. There is one of the core elements of the concept of ‘integrated privacy’. I agree with the Committee that the management must plan for privacy when ordering and developing new ICT systems. In the announced privacy deposit notice, the government will among other things. discuss the use of privacy-promoting technologies. Although the objective is good, in my view, a permanent ICT-hazard Commission will not ensure the necessary efficiency and quality in a work that requires different approaches to different issues and issues. In some cases, it is most appropriate to involve private actors in carrying out quality reviews and assessments. Several have referred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs' use of Norske Veritas to assess Altin, and the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs has used specialised consulting services to assist us in the quality assurance of the Ministry's ICT services. At other times it may be best to use existing governmental bodies. And as the representative Schou mentioned, the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church used the National Security Authority to assess the security of the ICT system of the government quarter because they had the best available competence. Such flexibility is necessary. At the same time, it is important that we be able to act quickly, and there should not be any uncertainty about liability. I note that the majority of the Committee points to the fact that the use of ICT solutions by the State covers a very wide range of areas and that it would be difficult for a single body to take care of all the damage and privacy situations. That is also my position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4864	The Progress Party wants an efficient public sector that improves from year to year. Improving and reorganising the public sector requires that you are able to learn from your mistakes so that you do not make the same mistakes over and over again. This is why, among other things: The State Disaster Commission for Transport, which has contributed for 20 years to improving safety and reducing accidents in the transport sector. I have no doubt that the State Emergency Commission on Transport will succeed in its work. Every year, the state spends enormous sums on ICT projects, but a large proportion of the projects over the last 20 years have fallen apart. Then we have to ask ourselves how we can avoid ICT-hazards in the future, and how to learn from the mistakes that have been made. The Progress Party has therefore promoted a proposal for a representative on its own disaster commission for ICT, which has also been addressed by ICT-Norway. Creating such a disaster commission could in the long run save taxpayers for billions of dollars in public misinvestment in the years to come, even if a bet could avoid any misinvestment for the long term. The main reason why public ICT projects often go wrong is that public procurement skills are too poor. Government changes specifications and requirements during the process. Too much attention has been paid to new developments rather than to the choice of tried and tested solutions. In addition, a distinction should be made between what is important and what is less important in contracts. It's e.g. a little bit special with a situation where a consulting company can resell the Altin, which, after all, costs about half a billion dollars to develop. I am very disappointed with the way in which the Minister for Renewal rejects the whole proposal in his reply to the committee, which is attached to the vote. Governments say, among other things: that the establishment of a permanent accident commission will not cover such a large and defective area as the use of ICT in central government. What does not come to light is the solution that the Council of State itself has for the public sector to be able to learn from ICT-hazards. So it's for the government to shoot down a good proposal from the Progress Party without coming up with good alternative solutions. You can ask yourself who is most familiar with ICT – the ICT-Norway trade union, which has called for an ICT-Hazari Commission, or the Red-Green Government. Finally, let me pay tribute to the Christian People's Party, who has chosen to support our proposal. It is important that the civil parties find good common feasible solutions for improving the efficiency of the public sector, so that taxpayers are given the best possible services for their tax money. Here we are at the very heart of civil policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4879	The representative Haugland says that the government and I have not shown any solutions to the issues raised in the proposal. Then I would like to remind you that what is the best solution to avoid getting ICT-hazards is exactly what I have explained in my answer – that we ensure quality of ICT projects in a way that avoids problems in retrospect. It has to be the best way, and that's the way we can learn how to avoid having major problems with our ICT proposals in the future. We need to build on some common standards and some common principles to link projects and ICT systems. The fact that we don't have systems that relate to each other is one of the things that challenge us most at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4884	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4898	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4912	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4926	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4937	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e4945	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Sverre Myrli, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 6, by Ine M. Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 7-9, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–6 has been included in the setting on page 57, while proposals Nos. 7-9 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the military capabilities of the Home Guard by doubling the number of forces and by increasing the training of the other forces. The government is asked to come back with a proposal to finance this within the framework of the Home Protection Agency.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests, in addition to the establishment of a main flight base for fighter aeroplanes in Örland, as soon as possible, to explore alternative solutions for a position in North Norway with a minimum resolution of 2 + 1 aeroplanes and return to Stortinget with a military professional and economic assessment of such a exposure.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to scrape plans to set up an Arctic effort force.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5028	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on V and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is linked to the future strength structure of the defence as described in the proposition table 7.5. The Ministry of Defence shall be empowered to initiate the amendments.’;» It is the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the V. The left has notified that they will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5047	The vote will take place at the next voting time on the motions for motions for resolutions I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5057	The vote will be taken on the proposal for a IV vote. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5071	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution for III. The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it. See explanation of vote on Friday 15 June
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5087	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to find a solution where an advanced operating base for fighter aircraft in North Norway is established in Bodø.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5102	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Fremskutt operating base in North Norway is established on Evenes. Bodø Main Aviation Station shall be brought down.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Sky flight station is closed as an aeroplane station. The defence EK support centre is being moved to Ørland. [[FEX]] The 717 squadron is being moved to Gardermoen. 720 squadrons are laid down and an exposure is created with Bell 412 helicopters on the Back under 339 squadron on Bardufoss.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Inspector General of the Air Force, the Air Force Staff, the Air Operation Inspectorate and the Air Defence Education Inspectorate shall be located at Retan.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Mågerø Air Force Station shall be brought down, the Air Force Control and Warning School shall be moved to South Travel and the Air Force Programming Centre shall be moved to Retan.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5134	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on VI, VII and VIII. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5192	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The report requests the Riksrevision to conduct a specific examination of the acquisition process and the basis for the selection of new fighter aircraft and to present the result to the Stortinget’. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5327	During the debate, Per-Kristian Foss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to put in place a system of cumulation in the 2013 decision-making process. The majority requests that the rules on the appointment of candidates be amended so that a personal vote of at least eight per cent of the total number of votes in the list is obtained in order of the number of personal votes received. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5346	The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they will now subsidize the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5362	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-11, by Mr Torgair Tåldal, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right-wing Proposals No. 12-18, by Mr Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Party for Progress, proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from Svein Fleet on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 21, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 22 and 23, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–21 has been included in the setting on pages 31–33, while proposals Nos. 22 and 23 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the whole of the Agricultural Contracting Institute, but the intention to simplify the negotiations to deal exclusively with grant schemes which have a direct impact on farmers’ income.’ The voting boards showed that 101 votes were cast against and 0 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.39.47]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5395	The vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5409	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘a) Prop. 122 S is returned to the government. [[2011-2012]] b) The government is asking the government to open new negotiations with the agricultural organisations and to make offers in accordance with the stipulations of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. [[2011-2012]] S. No 234
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5431	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the right. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The State budget for 2012 shall be amended as follows: Expenditure1150For the implementation of the agricultural agreement and 50Fund provisions, increase by 21 000 000 from NOK 1 038 653 000 to NOK 1 059 653 00070Market regulation can be transferred, reduced by 2 600 000 from NOK 190 900 000 to NOK 188 300 00073Price subsidies, may be transferred, increased by 25 000 from NOK 2 290 100000 to NOK 2 315 100 00074Direct grants, may be transferred, reduced by 45 728 000 from NOK 8 351 319 000 to NOK 8 305 591 00077Development measures, may be carried over, increased by 5 400 000 from NOK 233 526 000 to NOK 238 958 00078Wealth schemes, may be transferred, reduced by 3 100 000 from NOK 1 584 604 000 to NOK 1 581 500000’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The size empowers the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to take action under the adjusted draft agricultural settlement, including measures related to appropriations in 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5579	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the Norwegian export subsidies for cheese production through the turnover tax applicable from 1 July 2012.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5587	The right has also announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5592	It is registered that the Right also wants to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5604	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 18, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The budget requires the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to ensure that the framework conditions which cannot be defined for longer periods enter into the annual budgetary procedure. The establishment for 2012 shall continue as a transitional arrangement beyond the financial year 2012 with the amendments made to the revised national budget for 2012.’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks it to draw up its own notification of investment in bioenergy in general and especially in agriculture.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5628	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12-14 and proposals Nos. 16 and 17 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the necessary changes to the laws so that the obligation to live and operate and the regulation of the prices of agricultural property can be abolished.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The agricultural production for 2012 is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for transfers to agriculture in line with other expenditure promoted in the State budget.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to specify the taxes and levies imposed on agriculture in connection with the presentation of the 2013 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote concrete measures for the reduction of taxes on agriculture in the context of the presentation of the State budget for 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5665	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 10 and 11, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a strategy for the red tape of agriculture in the presentation of the 2013 government budget.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a system of marketable production quotas for cows' milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is country-wide.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a comprehensive strategy for increased meat production, specifically targeted at beef and veal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5692	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 4 and points 6–9, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more intensive work on the development of niche and special agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the co-operation rules to increase flexibility and improve the possibilities for a varied and versatile use structure.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the geographical restrictions and the number of participants for participation in joint ventures, as well as the quota cap.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring an action for the Grand Duchy to amend the law on the prohibition of division of land.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to permit the sale of demonstrations and the provision of services by way of visits to or in connection with production premises.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all production regulations to be abolished if the processing is carried out on its own farm.’ [[such as milk quotas]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of market regulation mechanisms to see whether they work well enough for all actors in the value chain, as well as for proposals for changes that take particular account of consumers and for equal competition between operators in the industry. In the case of proposals for the relocation of sectors out of the current target price system, the options ‘the resolution of market organisations’ and ‘the chicken model’ shall always be explored and evaluated.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action before the Storting to amend the regulation on the foreign processing of meat and dairy products, inter alia, in order to make the rights sold in auction negotiable.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5881	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5898	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Torgeir Tjäldal, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 4, by Torgeir Tåldal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 5 and 6, by Torgair Tjäldal on behalf of the Party of Advancement There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the slaughter of tamrein on Finnmarksvidda is initiated in order to avoid major animal diseases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5927	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the adjustment of the reindeer settlement period to follow the calendar year and to enter into negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’;» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e5946	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to give priority to negotiating a new agreement in the light of the Act of 2 October 1751 First Codicill and Supplements to the Border Tracts between the Kingdoms of Norway and the Swedish Lapses concerning the prevention of future cross-border conflicts.’ [[Laughter]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit its own notification on the recovery of reindeer during 2012.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the compensation scheme for the loss of cleanness, including assessing the reinforcement of the requirements for the documentation of reported losses. The review shall be carried out by an independent body.’;» The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e6080	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposals for the reindeer establishment 2012/2013 are not accepted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e6102	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 1 has been included in the setting on page 17, while proposals No. 2 and 3 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose the necessary amendments to Law No 19 December 2003 by 2013 at the latest. 130 on Innovation Norway. The legislative changes shall result in: 1. Innovation Norway has a far more freer role in relation to political authorities. 2nd@item: inlistbox Innovation Norway is becoming much more a precursor to authorities and the political environment in proposing and disseminating measures for increased entrepreneurship, innovation and simplification. 3rd@item: inlistbox Innovation Norway is divided into two different units. One part should be a targeted innovation component for entrepreneurs and businesses throughout the country. The aim of this section is to stimulate good ideas to be put into practice regardless of where they were created in the country. The second part shall take into account rural areas and have an instrument for rural development, with the main aim of ensuring housing and agricultural policy objectives. The building development funds shall be maintained in the district and stimulate the development and establishment of additional industries in relation to traditional agriculture.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e6134	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to lift the limitation on the number of hours and hourly rate of self-produced R & D in relation to Tax findings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e6149	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a reinforced SIVA incubation strategy in the context of the submission of the 2013 State Budget, involving both the strengthening of SIVA’s programme resources and SIVA’s equity to the incubation environments.’ The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e6184	During the debate Bård Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up an ICT-hazard Commission within the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church to find the cause of state-owned ICT Hazaris and ICT-related privacy violations.’ The left has announced support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e6229	Representative Laila Marie Reiertsen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e6232	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-14.ana.ud1886e6961	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
