ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e22	The representatives Morten Höglund, Sylvi Graham, Lise Christoffersen, Karin Andersen, Karin S. Woldseth, Håkon Haugli, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Susanne Bratli, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Per Roald Bredvold on leave from 8 October to 11 October, and from the representatives of Else-May Botten, Robert Eriksson and Anette Trettebergstuen on leave from 9 October to 11 October, all to take part in the appointed Parliamentary Assembly in Catania, Italy from the representative of the Højres Storingsgruppen on the leave of the representative Ivar Kristiansen from 8 October to 10 October in order to take part in meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Italy from the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten on leave in days 8 and 9 October in order to take part in the meeting of the Governing Director of the GAVI vaccine fund in Brussels from 8 October to 10 October, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde and Lars Joakim HanssenFor More and Romesdal County: Eva Vinje AurdalFor Nordland County: Jonni Helge SolsvikFor Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid SvendsenFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Change Skjervø
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e112	Lars Joakim Hanssen, Jonni Helge Solsvik and Kjell Arvid Svendsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e130	We are presenting the 2013 state budget in demanding times. While things are going well in Norwegian economy, many of our neighbours are out in bad weather. Europe has been in its worst crisis since World War II. Over 25 million are now unemployed in Europe. Behind the figures are people who have lost some of the most important things they have — the right to provide through work to create a future and a safe everyday life for themselves and theirs. Young people in particular are hit hard. Too many people have turned their lives upside down. The traces of what is now happening will characterize Europe for a long time to come. Over the past year, I have met young people both in Spain and in Italy. They are hopeless, and many are without hope for the future. They tell of a working life in which young people are at the back of the queue, and where opportunities for footholding in paid work are almost impossible. A young Spanish woman of 23 years says this: "I don't think about it in 10 years. I can't imagine a house, a child and a good future. I belong to a generation that no longer has a future and dreams." It is this reality that many Europeans meet daily: an unsafe future. Several countries need to cut large amounts in their budgets to bring down deficits and to avoid increasing debt. In Norway, the opposite is true. We can increase the cost. At the same time, our common savings account is growing. While other countries have to deal with the aftermath of the financial crisis and the crisis in government finances, we have a solid economy and sound government finances. In such a situation, it is natural that people have great expectations. It belongs to life. But the sum of all demands and wishes can be impossible to meet. That's why we all have to make choices. Our ability to make clear choices today – and for the future – will be tested. That's why we have to keep up the work that's planned to fix what's not good enough. Therefore, we have to take care of and build on the good results we have in the Norwegian economy. The State budget for 2013 contributes to this. It is a budget for work, value creation and well-being. The State budget for 2013 is a budget for future Norway. The most important task of politics is to create security for people without taking ownership of them. We do this best through the strong community – a society in which we take care of each other as fellow humans and have binding Community solutions. Strong social ties – built on trust, tolerance and respect – can withstand even the strongest pressures. Providing a budget is more than just the individual appropriations. The state budget is about people's lives – about kindergartens and hospitals, about school and workplaces, about people who struggle with their lives, about poverty, climate and development. It's about the global community we're part of, and about the generation contract. It is also about values that cannot be enumerated in the national and state budget, about living conditions and quality of life. It is about what responsibility we take for the future – for future generations. We must be able to make the choices we make today, even in ten to twenty years' time, when the kids have grown up. Hans Børli writes in the poem «Nearness»: "I will sharpen my skin on my fingertips thin against rough reality, I will feel what I am wearing." Policies must be tactful and deliver results for individuals and for the community, today and in the future. Work is the key to achieving many of our goals. Working for everyone is the very foundation of the policy. Work provides security. Work gives each individual financial autonomy. Nothing is more powerful to combat differences, raise people's standard of living and quality of life. Getting people to work is also the key to an inclusive society. Moreover, work gives us a stronger back to bearing the welfare challenges of the future. Our joint work is the foundation of the welfare society. When politics gives low unemployment and many in work, we all get richer. Our most important defense is to keep order in your own house. Those looking at Norway and the Norwegian economy from the outside will then have confidence in developments in the future. It takes a long time to build trust. If we don't do our job, it can disappear overnight. A lesson from other countries and from our own history is how important it is to build adequate reserves in good times. This applies both to the country, to households, to enterprises and to banks. Reserves make us better equipped to meet periods when the economy goes back. The budget for 2013 is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. We have economic growth above average, historically, and unemployment is low. The government emphasises that budgetary policy should not contribute to pressure problems in the economy. Therefore, we follow the rule of action for the use of oil revenues. It gives us room to meet unforeseen events in the future. It has now been four years since the international financial crisis broke out seriously. Anxiety has lasted longer than most thought. In many countries, economic activity is still lower than when the crisis broke out. Low economic growth and high debt levels have weakened confidence in public finances in several euro area countries and interest rates on government debt are high. This year, in particular, two questions have been raised: Will Greece leave the euro and will losses in Spanish banks undermine its state finances? The EU at Community level and the authorities of individual countries have implemented and notified measures to rebuild confidence in euro cooperation. In August and September, it became clear what the European Central Bank will do to ensure euro-cooperation and what it will require of assistance from countries in crisis to achieve it. At least for a time, these measures have led to lower interest rates on Spanish, Italian, Irish and Portuguese State loans. But with cuts in public expenditure, increased taxes and weak banks, activity will be low and unemployment very high for many years to come. Overall, the growth of our trading partners is modest. Economic growth is too low to significantly increase employment. The international situation is fragile, the risk of a weaker development than envisaged is high, especially in the euro area. The Norwegian economy is clearly different from most other OECD countries. We have solid economic growth. The last ten years have been a very good period in the Norwegian economy. It's because we've had a good time. Oil prices and other commodity prices have increased sharply. It has given rise to increased revenue and increased activity in the oil industry. But above all, it is about political governance. We have a framework for economic policy that we can be proud of. State pension funds and the rule of action contribute to the use of oil revenues in a way that carries over time. We distinguish between the generation and the use of oil revenues. This is how we build reserves for future generations and to meet future setbacks in the economy. The interest rate is used to keep inflation low and stable and to balance fluctuations in output and employment. The income policy provides us with lower unemployment because the consideration of competitive industries is put at the forefront of wage-earnings. A policy of financial stability should give us solid banks that are upright even in bad times. Without it, there's growing interest in the way we run the economy. That's not nice. Our model has contributed to good results. We have to take care of that. Both this year and next year, we expect growth in the mainland economy to be slightly higher than estimated in the revised national budget from May this year. The rise is supported by high oil prices and low interest rates. Employment is growing fast. Since 2005, 340,000 new jobs have been created in Norway. Two out of three have come in the private sector. It's huge values that are thus created in common. Only in the last year has employment increased by about 60,000 people. The fact that we create more jobs is the best sign that our economy is doing well. At the same time, unemployment has fallen. It is clearly lower than the average over the last 25 years. Wage growth can be over 4 pst. this year. It's clearly higher than our trading partners. In the last ten years, real wages in Norway have increased by almost 30pst. – or more than 2,5 percentage points per year. Employees in other countries can only dream of such a development. Together with a low level of interest rates, this contributes to an increase in household demand, both in private consumption and in the housing market. In addition, high oil prices have significantly increased the demand from the oil industry. A strong exchange rate helps to some extent dampen the pressure in the economy. While households and enterprises in the sheltered sector are primarily benefiting from the low level of interest rates, the competitive business is affected by the strong price of crowns. An already high cost level in Norway makes competitive enterprises vulnerable to weaker international growth, falls in export prices and a stronger krone. Over time, the growth capacity in mainland Norway has the most to say if we can continue and expand well-being. The ability of our companies to compete on the world market is therefore crucial. I travel a lot around Norway, and a message I often get is the following: Keep order in the Norwegian economy! That's what I'm seeing from employees and executives in businesses around. We're going to do that. The government keeps order in the Norwegian economy. The rule of action opens up the possibility of using more oil revenues in years of poor economic performance. At the same time, the use should be below the expected fund return in years of high activity. We took advantage of that freedom of action in 2009 to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis on employment and unemployment. In 2011 and 2012, the use of oil revenues is again lower than the expected real return from the fund. Now we use the capacity of the Norwegian economy. Budgetary policy must not contribute to the problems of the press. It will make it even more difficult for competitive industries, and it will increase the risk of future setbacks. Increased use of money would also lead to wage growth and the rise in housing and property prices generating speed. Now it's not time to walk on the throttle pedal. For this reason, the government provides an approximately neutral budget for 2013, i.e.: oil money use is growing around as the value creation of the mainland economy progresses. As I said, the draft budget is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. It also provides for long-term reasons and supports under the generation contract. It helps us to be better equipped to meet difficult times. Although it is difficult to predict the future, I think it can be said with great certainty that difficult times will arrive in time. In the 2013 budget, we propose a use of oil revenues of 125 billion. kr. That's 26 billion. kr below the expected fund return and constitute 3,3 pst. of the estimated capital of the State pension fund abroad. Government budget expenditure is actually increasing by 23 billion. kr. Of these, the growth in public expenditure from 2012 to 2013 is more than half. Each eleventh crown now used in public budgets comes from the pension fund. Without these revenues, we could not have had the current level of welfare schemes. Oil money use in the State budget is at a responsible level – a level that can be maintained over time. By carefully using only the return of what we have saved in the pension fund over time, we will not use the property itself. We save the fortune of those who come after us. It's an important part of our management of oil wealth. Many countries would probably want to be in Norway — with a large surplus in the budget and money in the book. We shall be proud of that, but at the same time we shall be humble. The big oil revenues help us, but it's our ability to keep people in work that's most important. The history of Norway is the history of all those who contribute — those who go to work every single day and carry out important tasks for the good of society. It's the sum of all the work that has created the society we have, and it's the sum of work in the future that creates the communities of the future. Therefore, low unemployment and high levels of employment are so important. It presupposes a wage settlement with the highest priority given to competitive industries. The government will set up an expert committee to look at the experience of wage formation in Norway over the last decade and look at the challenges ahead. In this picture, it is also important to look at those who are out of work. We have to open the gate to those outside. Here we have a responsibility as politicians and authorities, but responsibility also lies with employers and employees. It is both about action and about money, but also about attitudes. We can do something for each of us. We'll get more if we do it together. Together, we must also mobilise this reserve in the workforce. We're going to need it in the future. In the 2013 government budget, the government proposes to continue a high level of action places. We propose several action areas for people with disabilities within the framework. Focusing on young people in the labour market is important – for individuals, but not least in order to develop the future workforce. This is why we are strengthening the follow-up of young people who fall out of work and education. In addition, we introduce the job opportunities that target immigrants who are far from the labour market and who are not caught by other measures. Having a job to go to creates security. Good welfare arrangements ensure that we do not stand on the ground the day we suffer from sickness or unemployment. Safety also has a different dimension. Last 22 July illustrated the importance of security and preparedness. Overall, there is a historical increase in social security and preparedness in this budget. Appropriations for training and exercises – and organisation, attitudes and preparedness culture – must go hand in hand. This was one of the main points of the Gjørv Commission. We propose that social security and preparedness businesses be strengthened. This concerns the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the police and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness. It has been decided to acquire new life-saving helicopters within a cost framework of SEK 16.8 billion. kr. In order for the helicopters to be put into service as planned for the period 2016-2020, contracts must be concluded in 2013. The draft budget provides for a significant amount of part-payment at the time of conclusion of the contract. Including increased expenditure on the maintenance of today’s rescue helicopters and other measures, the government is putting up a billion-dollar effort on increased social security and preparedness in the 2013 budget. Security is also about security for your own health — having access to a good health and care service regardless of income. The offer shall be tailored to the needs of the individual user. We know that there will be more elderly people in need of care in the years to come. A subsidy shall be granted to 12000 health and care places in the period 2008-2015. The bet is in good order. The 2013 budget provides for 1 750 new posts. In addition, we increase the daily supply of activity for people with dementia. The breast reconstruction effort is continued. We add more resources to hospitals so that more patients can be treated. Between 2005 and 2012, the number of somatic patient treatment has increased by 1.7 million. The draft budget means that we can carry out an additional 130 000 talks in 2013. The activity growth proposed in the 2013 budget is the strongest since the government assumed responsibility for the specialist health service. The number of applications is increasing, the queues are falling, and the quality has to be improved. The most important thing for kids is to grow up in a good and safe home. Young people also need community attention and care. Some kids need this more than others. A high-quality childcare facility is good prevention. But unfortunately, that's not always enough. Child protection therefore has an important role to play. We give priority to child protection, especially at municipal level. We also want to strengthen the role of child protection and social affairs in order to speed up the process. Good growth is the most important thing for children's progress in life. Investment in the young end of life is essential for the fulfilment of the generation contract. A New Life a journey on wings of hope – dreams and opportunities. How We Got of those who were always there – for us. The government's bet on kindergartens is an important boost, both for the children and for their parents. We've reached the goal of full child care coverage, and kindergartens are still a priority area. The maximum price of a kindergarten is passed on nominally unchanged, so that the parental payment is actually reduced. We also give parents greater opportunity to be at home with their kids by extending the parental quota and the parental leave period by two weeks. A long-term and responsible policy is not least about prioritising and investing in knowledge. By knowledge, we will continue Norway. Kindergarten bet is part of this. Equally important are school and higher education. Education makes you stronger in the labour market. We know that the teachers are important for us to succeed in school. It is they who meet the students daily and show the students the way to learning. The government proposes a four-year pilot scheme with several youth teachers in those schools that score less than the average. We also introduce the ninth-level electoral profession to increase the motivation and learning of high school students. We want to strengthen vocational and vocational training. The government will create 3,250 additional study places in 2013. In this way, places of study established in previous years may be continued with new coal. Since 2009, more than 22,000 more places have been allocated in higher education. High housing prices have made it difficult for many to enter the housing market. The government will present its own proposal with a proposal to increase the Loan Framework of the House Bank from 15 billion. DKK to 20 billion kr in 2012. This high level will continue in 2013. In order to facilitate the situation of the disadvantaged on the housing market, the Government proposes to increase the allocation of start-up grants and of grants to rental dwellings. We also propose to facilitate the construction of 1000 new student homes. Our municipalities are in the first line of welfare and care. Under this government, municipalities have had a significant upturn — from 2005 to 2012 the income of the municipal sector has actually increased by 61 billion. kr. There have been several employees in kindergartens, more in nursing homes and more teachers in school. For the next year, real growth is projected in the total income of the local government sector of 6.8 billion. kr, and 5 brd. kr is the so-called free income. The government will facilitate increased value creation and development across the country. Then we need a strong commitment to transportation. National transport plan 2010–2019 has an overall planning framework of 100 billion. kr higher than the previous plan. Since 2005, national transport plans have increased by almost 15 billion. kr. Next year, we're proposing an increase of 3.4 billion. kr. Thus, the plan frames are overfilled with about 1.5 billion. kr. We have high ambitions in the field of transportation, and we fulfill them. We have to think in the long term and be innovative. It is important for future Norway. It strengthens growth and value creation. Through research, we are better equipped to meet tomorrow's society. The government's draft budget represents an estimated total research effort of 27 billion. kr. This is an increase of 1.4 billion. kr. from the current year. Norway is among the OECD countries with the highest publicly funded research per capita. Research is reinforced by increased appropriations for ice-going research vessels, international space programmes and the EU Framework Programme for Research, as well as research into nanotechnologies, climate and social security. Research appropriations have actually increased by over 30 pst. since 2005. In the climate communication, it was announced that the government will strengthen national instruments. The significant investment in climate and environmental measures will continue in 2013. A capital injection into the new climate and energy fund is proposed. Increased taxes on CO2 for the oil industry, the conversion of car charges, increased public transport and railway development, measures against deforestation in developing countries and the safeguarding of natural diversity are part of the priorities. Norway fulfils its obligation under the Kyoto Agreement for the period 2008 to 2012 without the need for State allowance purchases. In addition, we buy allowances to overfulfill our obligations. The appropriations for international assistance increase by 2.4 billion. NOK, so we can continue a level that equals 1 pst. of gross national income. The different parts of the policy must work together as a whole. Appropriations are important, but equally important are participation, experiences, commitment, prevention and ownership. Exposure to sports and local cultural life is part of shaping our society. Culture is a valuable community-builder. Therefore, the government is following up on its promises of culture and volunteering. We're implementing the Cultural Promise with a view to achieving the goal of 1 pst. the expenditure of the State budget shall be used for cultural purposes by 2014. Through the cultural promise, we help to make art and culture available to more and more people, both as participants and as an audience, in all parts of the country. In addition, we'll start by stepping up the sport's share from the drugs. We still need to ensure good conditions for sport. VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations is increasing by 321 million. kr. One week of cultural school activities in the SFO is introduced at the nursery from the autumn of 2013. Much has been done in recent years to simplify administrative communication with citizens and businesses. Electronic tax returns are an example. The Government's objective is that the main rule should be digital communication. In our draft budget, we are increasing the appropriations for both ongoing and new measures to digitise management. Norway has a well-functioning tax system that brings more than 1200 billion. kr to the community. These revenues finance our welfare schemes. A good tax system is not obvious. In many countries, the ability of the tax system to generate revenue and ambitions for public expenditure is not consistent. Worst outside are countries like Greece and Spain. These countries need to improve their tax systems in order to get out of the difficult situation they are in now. A good tax system with a broad tax base makes it possible to keep relatively low tax rates. It promotes the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. The redistribution through the tax system is also improved when more of the real income is taxed. The government maintains the level of taxation in 2013 at 2004 level in accordance with the tax promise. The tax levy contributes to the foreseeable framework conditions for business and households. The tax bases shall not only be wide – they shall also be fair and fair. We are now taking a new step to reduce fees down to a cost-effective level. Fees for land exploration are strongly reduced. The car charges are reduced by 400 million. kr. It is the second year in a row that the car charges go down. This is done by proposing that the re-registration fee be reduced by 40 pst. for typical commercial vehicle and with 12 pst. for other vehicles. Furthermore, emphasis is placed on the environment and less on engine power in the one-off charge. The counter will be increased by 500 kroner. The maintenance of the tax system also means sealing holes that result in loss of tax revenue. The government proposes changes in the business tax, which overall will increase the country’s income by around 800 million. kr. Among other things, we propose exempting revenue from taxation from petroleum extraction abroad. Oil companies can currently deduct the costs of their foreign activity from the Norwegian land tax base. At the same time, Norway is unlikely to receive tax revenue from this activity. In the absence of fiscal obligations, the right to deduct those costs in Norway will also cease. The progress in taxes on income is continued. The points of entry in the top taxes, the pension deduction and the maximum minimum wage and pension deductions are increased as salary growth is expected. The asset tax base is increased significantly more, to NOK 870 000, financed by a slight extension of the base. The proportion of taxpayers paying taxes on wealth is roughly halved from 2005 to 16 pst. in 2013. Today it is approx. 500,000 fewer people pay taxes on wealth than they did in 2005. The majority has decided that the disability pension of the people is to be converted into a new disability benefit from 2015. The new rules presuppose that the new disability benefit is taxed as remuneration. The government is proposing changes to the Tax Act and the People's Security Act to follow up on this. The cost of financial crises is high and long-term. Developments in the international economy over the last four years confirm this. It was also our own experience from the banking crisis for approx. Twenty years ago. Financial imbalances are usually built up over a long period of time before they trigger a crisis. To reduce the risk of financial imbalances, regulation of financial markets and supervision must promote soundness, liquidity and good behaviour. In recent years, European financial markets have been particularly troubled. Norwegian banks are less affected by the unrest than other European banks. They have not lent much to enterprises and countries in vulnerable euro area countries. At the same time, activity in the Norwegian economy has remained well up and running. The banks have gained a little more soundness and are somewhat more robustly funded over the last few years. The outlook for the future suggests that banks will have good opportunities to strengthen their soundness even more. However, Norwegian banks have borrowed a lot abroad, making them vulnerable. The banks shall be equipped to meet concerns. The first line defence to ensure this is the soundness and liquidity of the banks themselves. The current crisis in Europe has its background in the fact that a number of countries have survived for several years. They've used more than they've had in income. They've ended up in a vicious circle, with high costs, low trust and expensive loans. The only way to get out of that circle is to get the expenses down and the income up. Many countries in Europe have now cut off important welfare services. Low economic governance has created insecurity for the inhabitants. We've seen demonstrations in many countries. The economic uncertainty that many people face in Europe, we have been able to avoid in Norway. As I said earlier, this has not come about by itself. Oil revenues have given us great opportunities, but they are also about responsible economic policies. We have prioritised work, value creation and well-being. We have to do that in the years to come. Not all good purposes can be satisfied. We must then pursue an economic policy that avoids compromising our competitive businesses. Then we have to think long-term and keep order in our own house. Then we have to prepare ourselves for the fact that the Norwegian economy too will be able to face difficult times. I would warn against believing that the good development we see in the Norwegian economy is self-evident in the years to come. Norway does not have a free ticket to low leave and a stable economy. The next year will be approx. 700,000 people over 67 years of age receive pensions from the population. The large hills after 1945 will contribute to strong growth in the older part of the population in the years to come. 30 years in advance, it is likely that almost 1 400 000 people will receive an old age pension. This will change our society. The proportion of older people in the population will increase rapidly. There's several reasons why it's going to be like this. High birth rates 67 years ago are one reason. In addition, improved health and medical progress have contributed to increased life expectancy. Life expectancy has increased by seven years since the population’s return in 1967. This is clear evidence that Norway is a good country to live in. Those who have provided the basis for this development shall have a good old age. Older people contribute to a better society — the intergenerational interaction makes us richer. Together, we have built Norway for what we see today. As human beings, we have different needs throughout our lives. Throughout the strong community generations make up for each other. This generation contract is the backbone of well-being. The parents of the 1946 generation had a dream that their children would grow into a new era of greater security and more possibilities. Also the 1946 generation has and had a dream of a safe life for their children. Through their work and efforts in different areas of society, they have contributed to this. And now their children are going to take care of pensions and a safe old age. This is how we build a society of care and quality of life. That's how we build a better society. It's a long lifeline from 1946 to 2013. But it had not been possible to build a modern welfare state with money alone. It must have a bearing political idea and be based on fundamental moral and ethical values. It must be based on both duties and rights. Large revenues from natural resources give us an economic freedom of action people in many other countries do not have. But neither does such income come without joint effort in the work and building of knowledge and forward-looking competence. It is not fully possible to protect itself against setbacks in the international economy. We have no guarantee, as I said, that the good development of the Norwegian economy will only continue. That is why we must have good defence works and take Norway safely further, not only through the 2013 budget, but also over a longer period of time. We have to refrain from pushing bills forward in time to meet the expectations we have created today. We're going to save our children, not borrow them. We're going to build under it and not impair the possibilities they're going to have. We're going to build up under the environment, society and the sustainability of the economy over time. No generations before us in Norway — and hardly anywhere in the world — have had such opportunities as ours. The management of these opportunities will require much of us – from responsibility and foresight. Nor should we lose basic human values such as cohesion and community of vision. Every day we have to stand up for the values that make Norway one of the world's best countries to live in. Over the last seven years, we have made a major and important leap towards a better Norway. We've done this without jeopardizing the economy. We have chosen to prioritise the most important thing. We continue this job in our 2013 draft state budget. It is a budget for work, value creation and well-being. There is still a lot of work to be done, so we're going to go on with Norway. It is best done through the strong community – we are the thousands to build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e286	The President will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, in accordance with Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose to depart from Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure, so that a comment by the Minister of Finance, and then a final comment by the representative of the opposition party, may be given on each post for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e295	I believe that most in this Chamber who have heard the Minister of Finance, our excellent Minister of Finance, can agree that the situation in this country – a country characterized by progress and growth, more in jobs, low unemployment, increased value creation, solid government finances, a population that is growing – are characteristics that show that if we manage this properly, as the Minister of Finance puts it, we can take our country further in the years that come. But it doesn't happen in a vacuum; it's the result that we've been lucky, yes, but we've also managed the resources and the people's capabilities and facilities in a good way. It happens at a time when it is very demanding, when unemployment is not given to be low, that the growth of employment is to be high, that new businesses are created, etc. One must almost be a Right Party or Advance Party member to think that these numbers don't speak for themselves. I am now attending – during this round and the rest of the day – to hear in which direction the parties that are now criticising what Sigbjørn Johnsen has just presented as his proposal want to take Norway. Although much is going well, I am glad that the Minister of Finance points out that there are some conditions that make us vulnerable, and that do not mean that things are going to continue to grow into heaven. While many in both the private and public sectors have not noticed so much about the global financial crisis, except that interest rates are low, that it has become cheaper to travel on holiday to southern Europe, and that the news that it is demanding is recorded, there is a solid part of the Norwegian economy, the competitive one, which fights with foreigners, the best foreigners in its fields, about missions and work, who really know how it is now in those markets that are, after all, very important. That's why it's challenging when we've had good wage development – it's to the delight of many. I tend to say that yes, of course the pay of people has most increased. This is because Norway has done well. It hasn't come as a result of everything else. The alternative would have been that there had been capital owners or others who left farms with an even larger part of the pie. But it challenges us, because we have to combine wage growth with productivity growth, exchange relations with the rest of the world, etc. etc. These things are challenged when salary growth is as healthy as it has been. I am at least pleased that the government has now set up an expert committee to look at the front-line model, and that the figures also in the national budget now presented show that productivity growth again comes up after a little less good years after the financial crisis. With this hindrance, I am pleased that the proposal for a government budget combines safe economic governance with a commitment to forward-looking investment and the expansion of the welfare state. Then we need politicians who dare to say no to something else, who do not take the opportunity to gamble with jobs, who say that they are taking the situation in Europe seriously, and who, in an economic environment with unchanged tax levels and responsible oil money use, can expand infrastructure, invest in other common investments and expand the welfare state at a time when very many others have to do something else. We are now receiving the state budget for treatment in Stortinget. Here in Stortinget we have a situation where all the opposition parties now say they will throw away today's government and replace it with another. However, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I promise that we will listen to all constructive input and advice on the budget, both from the opposition and from those who have opinions on the draft budget. In the end, I think I can rely on some advice for those who are now going to make their more or less constructive contributions to the budget. Criticise the Labour Party's economic policy, but at the same time tell what your party will do, and with whom! Use the autumn budget procedure in Stortinget to discuss something more than individual matters! By means of proposals and observations, tell which direction the opposition will take Norway! And finally, use the last opportunity before the next major elections not to create a common new budget line, but to clarify the most fundamental fundamental aspects of economic policy – oil money use, the rule of action, the level of taxation! I don't think it's too much to ask when the Storting will now adopt its last budget before the elections. It did the red-green before the last elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e312	A lot goes well in Norway. High oil prices and low import prices lubricating Norwegian economy. The oil industry has to invest over 200 billion. kr next year. It is more than ten times more than the country will spend on road investment. That should give you a perspective. The government tries to describe the budget as tight, it gives the impression of tough priorities, but the budget's expenditure is a total of 1065 billion. kr. That's $62 billion. kr more than in 2012. In addition, 28 billion oil crowns are to be used in addition to the rule of action, just through Petoro. Pressically, more oil money is being used into the Norwegian economy than the rule of action suggests, not less. But the government's measure of a responsible economic policy is whether they spend less money than the rule of action allows through the state budget. This gives a false sense of security. The progress party believes it is more important to look at how a person spends the money than just to look at how much. Unfortunately, the budget bears the mark of a non-distinction between consumption and investment, a distinction between money spent in Norway and abroad. Oil money used by state companies becomes magically invisible. We need to ensure action where we have challenges. Even though a lot goes well, we can do things better. But instead of prioritizing, it gives a little bit more for all purposes. While the rest of Europe must through painful transformations, the government spends money across the country and partially conceals the consequences of inefficient systems. Yes, when even SV goes into the Class struggle and complains about increasing bureaucracy, there is room for action in the budget that the government does not use. A report made by the Academics in ours suggested that the public sector could save up to 45 billion dollars. kr for better purchasing systems. There is room for improvement and re-priority for more action, and the Progress Party will show it in the alternative budget. A lot of people say we're out of work. But we see that the government's budget opens up so that more people can use welfare schemes that take them out of work. Instead, we should have tax incentives for ordinary people who made it more attractive to work, not better social security schemes that make it less attractive to work. The formal unemployment rate is low, yes, but over half a million people are in social security schemes that are not included in unemployment statistics. This is a hidden long-term unemployment that you have to mobilise better. I also lack a greater commitment on apprentices to reduce school drop-out and ensure the recruitment of important labour to Norwegian business. The budget lacks important steps for business. Increased customs barriers are not a good medicine at a time when you need better trade relations. We should have had better depreciation rules in the budget, and we should have done something about property taxes on working capital. It's called for business, but the government doesn't deliver. We have unique opportunities to make sensible real investment in Norway. We have a lot of capital. There is free entrepreneurial capacity in our neighbouring country. That's a good combination. But even if the government boasts of infrastructure, it's pretty little left when someone takes away what's going to come through tolls. The government boasts that it will use 100 billion dollars. kr more on infrastructure, but they do not mention that it is over a ten-year period. In the same ten-year period, the profits of the Oil Fund, as we can use in the State budget, will be 1630 billion. kr. Using 100 billion. NOK 1630 billion. kr is not a priority in line with the rules of action. Five years ago, the Minister of Finance called for a new way of financing road and rail development. But in the budget, he delivers nothing. We're still going to save our oil money abroad at low interest rates and build toll projects that can be financed from abroad at high interest rates. It is not a responsible economic policy; it is a waste of taxpayers' money. When you see that a stake on the railway is illustrated by 50 million. kr more to Bergensbanen, is it to trick people, because with that grant rate it will take 64 years to complete that project. We aim to complete the project – not just grant small amounts. We were going to learn from the Gjørv Commission, which showed that security was better in government celebrations than it really was. We need to provide the police, fire services and health services with resources to effectively manage their tasks in the crisis situation. Unfortunately, that power of action is missing from the government. We have thousands of dedicated health workers who are proud of the profession. Several hospitals work well – let's not forget that. But in some places political grips have created some chaotic conditions. Then we have a special responsibility to clean up. We have to make sure that health care computer systems talk together, and then buying fax machines does not help. This is not dedicated money to the state budget. It is important to keep the economy in order, but a foundation with damage to sentences is not a good basis for pursuing responsible economic policies. One does not have order in the economy when society invests too little in infrastructure, so that one does not take into account population growth and business needs. The rule of action has given us a false security. It is possible to improve many things through this state budget, but if a few things are to be done in Norway in an extra good way, we need a new government in 2013. It will show the way forward in its alternative budget, which will be promoted in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e331	No, I think the Council of State should go to that pulpit and the speaker to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e334	We're preparing for next year. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e341	It's good that the president keeps track of the government in the hall. But to take the last one first, on the Hedmark we have an expression called "Christmas Star" about people who are too early in form, and it doesn't help much when you're going to notice in the Birkebeiner out in March. So I think we're going to wait a little bit to see what the result is 9 September 2013. I intend to do my part to make it the opposite result of what the representative Solvik-Olsen is concerned about. Outside Europe, many countries face severe deficits, high unemployment and high debt levels. One important reason why they have a large deficit is that unemployment costs. From the third quarter of 2005 to the second quarter of 2012, 340,000 new jobs have been created in Norway. It involves enormous value creation for Norwegian society. This means that we use the labour force in a way that makes us create new and great values. It's important for me to say that, because this is kind of taken a little too much for granted in the political discussion. Then it's important that we also in the future be able to mobilize those who are out of work. It's quite right, as the representative says, that there are a lot of people in queues, who want to enter the workplace, and who feel that the gate is too tight. I mentioned in the financial speech that here, through joint efforts, we must ensure that the threshold is lower for those entering the labour market. For this reason, the government strengthens the commitment to this budget for those who have difficulty entering normal working life. This is why we are turning the use of measures in the labour market towards those who need more organized approaches to get into the labour market. We can do a lot over the public budgets to address this issue. At the same time, however, we must, together with employers, workers and the government, facilitate this issue differently from what we have up to today, because it is both about money and about attitudes to and changes to those who cannot deliver 100 pst. in working life. So I look forward to a joint effort in that area to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e350	Unemployment is a challenge, so we're going to do a very good job of keeping low unemployment rates in Norway. But I think you're wondering a little bit when you know that more than half a million Nordics in their pre-employment age are put on social security, or are going on redundancy payments where most of them end up on social security. That's not how it should be. If you are in working-age, you should be encouraged to live on your own income, to contribute to society and to contribute to organisational life and not become a passive recipient from the state income side. There I believe that the government is doing too little. I realize that it's a challenge, but you haven't prioritised it strongly enough. One promised before the budget was presented that the small government parties would win important cases. It seems like they've done, but it's gone all the way down. This has affected the efforts of the major, important issues, in particular health and safety. It'll be unfortunate. When you're talking about infrastructure, we're going to remember that this year we were going to build an 11 km highway. Next year, a 15 km motorway is to be built. It's the investment of time in infrastructure. I'm sorry, but I'm not impressed. When you know that business pays 1 billion. kr in the purchase costs just to get from Oslo to Asker, then this pace is not good enough. Then one has to have a bet that allows us to get free labour to stand in line, rather to join in and build this country. The next time the Minister of Finance travels to Italy to buy cool hats, he should also look at how to ensure that several Italian, Spanish, German and other entrepreneurial companies can have enough Norwegian to allow them to compete in the competitions for the best infrastructure. There is pressure in the economy in Norway, and it can compensate for increasing export and import shares and altering them. In that case, it is not just goods that can be imported into Norway. One should also be able to import labour to ensure that we realise better infrastructure, get rid of bottlenecks in the Norwegian economy and thus ensure better future value creation. It doesn't get you with today's way of financing the road and the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e361	Much is good, and much is going well in Norway. While the world around us is marked by economic turmoil and high unemployment, in Norway we can enjoy a solid economy and a large economic space. It is said that it requires strong back to wear good times. The key question, therefore, is how the government chooses to prioritise its increased economic space. Since the red-green government came to power, the action space has increased by a total of 262 billion. kr. There are more than two health budgets entering the Norwegian economy. Oil money use has almost doubled over the red-green years. There is no doubt that more money is being used, but the question is: is this money being used to build Norway as a knowledge nation? I believe it is quite remarkable that a government that can afford the most, chooses to deprioritize research and further training of teachers. As the research budget increases by 2.2 pst. From this year to next year, the rest of the budget increases by 2.4 pst. In other words, the government believes that most things are more important than investing in future value creation and research. We also see that the most important factor in the school — the teachers — is down-priority in this budget, while the right has said this year after year that we need to give priority to continuing training of teachers. We know that many thousands of teachers want continuing education, but the government only continues to prioritise continuing education. There is no real prioritization of this. I agree with the Minister of Finance that Norway too can learn things from the crisis in Europe. One of the most important things is keeping order in the Norwegian economy, and the Right agrees with the need to hold back the use of oil revenues. It is important both to avoid too rapid a reduction in competitive jobs and to secure pensions for the future. But keeping the economy in order is not only about how many billions you spend on the budget, but also about how the money is spent on the budget. The government is to be commended for finally choosing to prioritize the appropriations for transport, but we see that an increasing proportion of cars are being rolled over through increased tolls and lack of innovation, including in that sector. There are many goodies that have been sold and leaked from the budget in the last days before the presentation of the budget. But if you dig a little deeper in the budget, you can see that some of the long-term and fundamental challenges in the Norwegian economy are still chosen to push ahead. We see that Norway's competitiveness is also weakened to next year. It has been weakened every year under red-green rule. This is a challenge – especially for our export companies. We also see that productivity growth is still too low. Combined with strange taxes and too little investment in research, this is a challenge for large parts of our business — in the short term, and especially in the longer term. In the budget, the government confirms the imposition of an unnecessary customs shock on cheese and meat. This will lead to poorer choice of shops, may weaken the competitiveness of parts of the food industry, and could lead to uncertainty for other parts of our business – perhaps in particular the fishing industry. Following the presentation of the Gjørv Commission’s report — which presented a rather crushing criticism of our preparedness — most of them expected this budget to be a real and strong priority for security and preparedness. I get the impression that the government chooses to prioritize what is pleasant in the short term, rather than what is necessary in the long term. Yeah, it's nice to have a couple of weeks of extra paperwork, but when you're really going to go into the priorities of the budget, that's what you choose, rather than a strong commitment to readiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e387	Councillor Sigbjørn Johnsen. The representative Jan Tore Sanner will have to wait until he becomes the Council of State. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e393	There was some role confusion today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e398	There are many things you could take up with the post of the representative Sanner, but I would like to remind you of a few things I have said earlier today. The main use of money during these years has been a stable, predictable and good policy to keep unemployment low and to increase employment. The unemployment rate is 3 pst. in Norway, and we have created 340,000 new jobs since 2005. It's hard to calculate exactly what it represents by values, but let's say that if one job creates 500,000 dollars in values, it's 170 billion. kr. I realize it's a difficult calculation, but it's to illustrate the value of having an economy that produces good, so that we get low unemployment and high employment. In addition — and this has given the government some room for manoeuvre, including in the 2013 budget — this economy provides a good basis both for businesses and for providing the community with more, what we call structural tax revenues. 18 B.C.E. kr in increased tax revenue resulting from the underlying output of the economy in 2013 is visible evidence of an economy that delivers. An important prerequisite for the economy to deliver is that it is predictability around the financial framework around the economy, that we follow the rule of action, and that we are faithful to the framework we have laid around the economy. It'll be one of the most important things to hold on to in the future. Then we will see – if things are going so wrong that the roles are changed – if a Right-State Council is able to keep track of the Progress Party in terms of this secure framework around the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e407	There will be a Right-State Council, in line with what an Labour Party Council has in mind in the sitting government. We are pleased that the government is able to keep up the use of oil money, and we are pleased that one important part of the rule of action is being followed. But you ignore the other one. At the time of the adoption of the code of action, it was also agreed that the scope for action should be increased for the long-term building of growth, namely the focus on knowledge, research, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax reductions. When you prioritise everything more than research, and when you increase taxes on Norwegian jobs, you do not follow that part of the rule of action. We also see in the budget presented today that it helps to increase the tax burden on Norwegian jobs, and it helps to make our jobs less competitive, compared to the other countries. I miss the long-term thinking. We can today rejoice that Norway is doing very well. But we have to think something further in time, and then we have to look at the basic challenges of the Norwegian economy. These are linked to a lack of competitiveness, low productivity growth, peculiar taxes and too low priority for research.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e418	The State budget is presented at a time when Norway is doing well. Many new jobs have been created, and we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate – 3 pst. We are behind us for several years with significant growth in all sectors of the state budget: more to health, education, research, transport and culture. We have behind us a period of more equitable distribution of goods in society, redistribution and reduced differences. This policy will continue in next year's government budget. This is a budget for keeping unemployment and the differences down. Since 2005, 330,000 new jobs have been created in Norway. The budget for next year will contribute to the creation of even more in 2013. The free income of the local government sector is increased by 5 billion. kr. Thousands of new employees are being set up to work in school, kindergarten, care for the elderly, health care and the police. In SV, we are particularly pleased that next year's budget is a good budget for distribution, knowledge and the environment. We're going to rearrange the tax system so that the redistribution increases even more. The government will contribute to increasing the value of secondary dwellings and commercial property in the taxes on wealth, while increasing the deduction from 750000 to 870000 kroner. 50 000 fewer are required to pay taxes on wealth. The minimum deduction is increased by 2 pst. It gives a conversion where those who have the highest gross income are taxed more, while those who earn the least receive unchanged or lower taxes. In addition, increased taxation of secondary dwellings would make it less attractive to use housing as an investment object, which could help to reduce the pressure on housing prices. The knowledge field gets an increase of 1.9 billion. kr in 2013. There will be a growth of 3,250 places to study, more teachers in high school and more quality in kindergartens. We continue to give priority to research in 2013, so that overall there will be a real growth in public research efforts of 2.2 pst. In total, 27.4 billion will be used. SEK for research and development in 2013. This is a real growth of 32 pst. from 2005 and SEK 6.7 billion more than in 2005. Children’s investment has been historically high during this government period – 60,000,000 new kindergartens since 2005. Next year, quality and lower prices will be prioritised in kindergartens. Child protection must also be strengthened and priority given to those children who need it the most. Two hundred ninety million. In 2011 and 2012, municipal child protection was strengthened. In 2013, municipal child protection is further strengthened by an earmarked allocation of 205 million. kr. So, over the three-year period 2011–2013, we have strengthened municipal child protection by nearly 500 million. kr. That's the biggest promise in municipal child protection over 20 years of age. SV is also pleased that next year we will have a government budget with a good environmental profile. The climate message will be followed up. We get increased climate research, a new fund for climate and energy, increased CO2 tax for the petroleum industry and a collective effort. The appropriations for the railway increase by almost 15 pst, to 14.4 billion. kr. That means we're almost doubling the appropriations for the railway and treble the railway investments in this period. Public transport also has a significant boost. We're going to have a total of 250 million. kr more to bet on public transport, which is an increase of 64 pst. At the same time, 50 million will be allocated. kr more for cycling and walking. It means less queue, less pollution and more environmentally friendly transport. National road and rail transport plans are not only followed up to next year, but are overfilled by 1.5 billion. kr. Finally, in the SV, we give a fair distribution and cohesion of the differences in society. There has been a red thread through all of the state budgets we've been involved in since 2005, and we're proud to be one of the few countries in the world where the differences have actually become smaller. This is not only important from a justice point of view, it is also important for value creation and for tackling social problems in society. A good distribution of income means that purchasing power is evenly distributed throughout society, which in turn is important for local business. In societies with small differences, there is also a high level of trust between people. This means, among other things: better health, less violence and greater security. That in this budget we focus on distribution, knowledge and the environment is therefore a good move to create an even better and more sustainable society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e453	Economic growth in the euro area is falling, unemployment is rising, interest rates are record low, and government debt is increasing. At the same time, growth in Norway remains despite weak developments in export markets. There is pressure in the labour market, and the wage growth is above 4 pst. is far beyond the wage growth we see in our trading partners. The pressure in the Norwegian economy, the major challenges of the two-way economy in Norway, taking into account competitive business, long-term financial policy challenges and increasing uncertainty about the economic outlook – all of this is moving towards policy measures that are now gently cooling down the economy. The government takes the consequences of this situation by presenting what the Minister of Finance calls ‘a neutral budget’. Just this responsibility may seem boring in the short term. It would probably have been fun and fun to spend money for good purposes in an election year, but there is little doubt that people are looking through politicians who ignore that we need first and foremost security for work and their own economy. Nevertheless, there is room for investment in this budget, and I am happy that we continue to build the country. For me, the most important thing about the 2013 state budget is that we again show that we keep what we promise. It's and it's going to be a historic relationship effort. All transport projects in the first period of the national transport plan will start as long as it is practicable to start them up. It will provide safer and faster transport of both people and goods. When the government again presents its new transport plan to spring, we know that this is not just wishful dreams. And it's going to be implemented. Norwegian municipalities have got big and heavy tasks, because many of the solutions are definitely the best when they get as close to those who need them as possible. Together with the tasks it has also followed money. There were many praises to hear when the municipality proposition was presented earlier this year. The Chairman of the KS, Gunn Marit Helgesen, said that the increase in free income was «good, but that is also absolutely necessary. First of all, it means that municipalities will continue to be able to provide good welfare services to their inhabitants’. Today, Helgesen can face an increase of a total of 6.8 billion. kr to the local government sector – 800 billion. kr more than proposed. It means room for more teachers, more care for the elderly and better roads in all the municipalities of the country. No government has ever shown greater trust and confidence in the development of the local environment than the Center Party and the Red-Green Government have done over the nearly eight years we have run Norway. The government also proposes an increase of 54 million. kr to flood and draft prevention work over the NVE budget, in line with the government's objective of improving the capacity of society to prevent disasters, preventing flood and escape risks. Floods and strides cause enormous damage materially and make people afraid and troubled. In advance of today’s presentation of the budget, and also in today’s comments, the debate has gone high on the change in customs duties on certain agricultural products. I think it is important to remember that import protection is one of the pillars of Norwegian agriculture – a prerequisite for achieving the 20 pst target. higher output by 2020. Zealous debaters should note that there will be no large price jumps in grocery stores from the turn of the year, and the sample will be the same. From 1 January 2012, a contractual amendment to the EEA Agreement, Article 19, was implemented in which significant quota increases were introduced both on meat and on cheese. Of course, it is these quota increases that will help us to achieve this stability and the careful development that we need, and that will ensure the opportunities for Norwegian farmers and the Norwegian food industry as well. The management of the rich natural resources in Norway through wise policy decisions has given us great values that we can invest again in the future of the country. The combination of more road and track, enhanced local well-being and securing, inter alia: Norwegian food production is unique to this government. It plays an important role in who controls. The strong efforts in the 2013 state budget are in contrast to a Europe in crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e470	Today, the budget reinforces the image of Norway as the analogue country in Europe. It's stronger than expected, it's also true of mainland Norway, and it's especially pleasing. There have been many leaks in front of the budget today, making it much easier for the opposition to prepare, so there are no excuses for not keeping good posts in the hall. There is a lot of good about the budget that Sigbjørn Johnsen is presenting today. That's good health, and there's broad political unity about the wholeness. The use of oil money is reduced – it's at 3.3 p.m., the warnings from the Governor of the Central Bank Øystein Olsen has the government listened to, and what I think is a wise assessment from the government's side. The situation we have in the world economy makes it less realistic to operate with 4 pst. expected return. In other areas, I thought there was a good signal from the government here: it is about child protection, it is about culture, it is about customs policy – and also about transport, it is very good. But there are also many areas in which the Christian People's Party wants to have a different priority. The government has promised 12,000 new sick homes, or all day care places, by 2015. Actually, it's this far built under 1,000 places. In 2013, government promises 1,750 new places – one is far from that goal. And then I also see that the government is now saying new and renewing all-day care places, so there are signs of a redefinition of what the government has promised. I ask the government to go back to the definition they had when this proposal was presented in the State budget for 2008: then there were new places of care. I hope we don't see a government that defines whether and so jumps out of the raise. We also record that there is nothing more to do with drug treatment. Thousands are in line, and non-profit organizations must shut down. Noise message, look at me! is here in Stortinget. We have to record that Sigbjørn Johnsen has not seen the drug treatment in its budget, although 45 million have been added. kr for pre-construction in that field. The whole day ball is this government's goal. We see it by the fact that the cultural sphere is now going into the SFO. Step by step, the government is building the all-day ball. We also see a priority here that I am surprised at. Getting the cultural ball into the SFO is $74 million. kr, while the government only spends 20 million. kr to drop-out in the further education. The question is, what is the most important thing? The parental leave will be increased by two weeks – that's good. There are, however, two paradoxes. The government chooses to reduce the number of family options. Flexibility is reduced, and the difference between those who only get one-off benefit – that is, for students and those who have not worked for six months before they have children – is even greater. The equality selection has recommended increasing the one-time benefit. I note that the government has not followed the advice of the Equality Selection Board. Still there is only one recording to the nursery. This means that Kristin Halvorsen is the politician who imposes forced cash support for many children between one and two years of age. The Christian People's Party wants freedom of choice. We see within health that even if it is allowed 90 million. For ICT bets, it will still be fax and taxi that will be one of the main communications also before Health Norway in 2013. As a leader of the transport committee, I think it is good that the taxis are also used in the health sector, but that is not what we need – but we need a renewal. My question to the Minister of Finance is: We see a good boost in transport, even if one does not meet the investment promise both by road and by rail. But precisely with new money in the field of transport, is it not also important that we look at reorganization and renewal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e498	It is permissible on a day that today to say with a little glimpse in the eye, as a point of reference to any of the first representative Hareide, that there should at least not be anything to say on the service we provide to the opposition. - But enough about it. There are two things I want to underline. It's like our municipalities are the first line in welfare production. What governments do in the municipal sector — with kindergarten, primary school and care for the elderly — are important welfare tasks. From 2005 and even the 2013 budget, income growth in the municipal sector has actually grown by nearly 70 billion. kr, a major boost for Kommune-Norge that improves the ability of Kommune-Norge to have better welfare services. They will also be better able to build the care areas needed to meet what comes a little later. I believe that we are well on track in relation to the 12,000 places we have promised. Then it is important to stress that there is a strong growth in the health budget. We're going to make it into next year an activity growth in the health sector of about 2 pst. So this government strongly stakes on combating what we call drop-out from school. The next year's budget has a budget of 185 million. kr to New GIV, and a total of over three years, one will spend about 500 million. kr on this bet. This means that in 2013, all secondary and secondary schools will have had a minimum of two teachers, for example: in basic reading, writing and calculation training, which is important to prevent drop-out. This is an important area of investment for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e509	In my speech, it was important for me not to give the Minister of Finance the hat fits most areas, because I think we have to be balanced. In some areas, however, I believe that the government is far behind – among other things. in the case of care facilities. So there's one building at the base of 1,000 places, and one says in this budget that one is going to deliver 1,750 new places. So today's text says that it now includes new and new places. It's a completely different impression than the government has given before. Within the sector it has been very clear that there are new places to expect. If we go back to the state budget for 2008, the government said that there were new places – 12,000 new sick homes – an expectation would be in place by 2015. I hope the government is stuck to it. So I also believe that the need for renewal is present. My point was that it's good that one gets 90 million. kr for ICT bet within the health sector. But when we see the challenges that are there – fax is used and there is a taxi running screenshots from hospital to hospital – there is a wrong use of resources. In order to solve the challenge we see, with the ICT needs that are absolutely necessary in Health-Norway, there are entirely other sums that are necessary to get it in place. It's just an example of the integrity of public administration, because it's not just Health Norway that has challenges with ICT. That's what the police have, that's what we've seen inside Nav, and that's why a whole-hearted approach to it would have triggered the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e516	Never has a Norwegian government had a greater economic space than the current government. Never has a Norwegian government spent more money. Yes, in fact, the budget's expenditure side in the documents presented today is 400 billion. kr. higher than the last budget of the previous government — or an increase of about. 60 pst. The government averaged 56 billion. kr. to use more every year in government. Then it is with respect to report not particularly impressive that you use every opportunity to point out that you are nominally spending more money in almost all areas than the previous government. This is the world's luckiest government. The big and important question is whether the money is being used and managed in the best possible way. In the view of the Left, the answer to that question is not unambiguously yes. Of course, much of what is proposed today is good. There is a quality in the Norwegian political system that we largely agree on the construction of the most important structures in society, and therefore how we spend the big money. The discussion of this budget will also certainly show that there is a broad consensus of at least 90 pst. of the State budget, but also some of us disagree. What would have been different if the Minister of Finance had been from the Left today? First of all, a Finance Minister from the Left would follow up the whole rule of action, not just parts of it, and what fits the sitting government. In other words, the Left would have put great emphasis on prioritising education, research, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax and tax relief, as we agreed with the Workers' Party when the action rule was introduced in 2001. Only around 15-20 pst. the oil money has been used as they should during this government. Secondly, a finance minister from the Left would have prioritised a clear green tax shift. I cannot, with my best will, understand the government's reluctance to use the tax system actively in the service of the environment. More taxes on consumption and environmentally hostile behaviour, less on work and investment in business and jobs are the tax policy of the future and it is absolutely necessary to achieve the ambitious climate objectives. The third is a strong commitment to reducing poverty among children and in families with children. Under the current government, the number of poor people has increased and, unfortunately, the state budget for 2013 is no good reading. I heard SV's posts here today, and I am surprised that SV is not more concerned about exactly this. The fourth is a targeted policy to get more people to work and get more people to work longer. To this end, a set of instruments is needed: a tax policy that rewards work and invests in Norwegian jobs, targeted measures to get more from social benefits to work, a more flexible working life, and not least that we dare to look at and remove schemes that directly counteract what we should all agree on: when the government of the state budget spends several billion dollars in subsidising early retirement from work through the AFP, it is in direct contradiction to the intentions of the pension reform to get more people to work longer. The tradition of religion has followed up many of the good proposals made by the Left in its alternative government budget last year, and as the government parties thought was misguided policy – at the latest in the consideration of the revised national budget four months ago. These include: strengthening SIVA, if necessary, on rail and public transport, more teachers and increased protection of forests. It is well and good, but it only supports the image of a small cooperative government. Measures and proposals are completely wrong when proposed by the opposition, and absolutely necessary when the same measures and additions are proposed by the government shortly afterwards. The government is delivering its seventh budget today. Common to all is that the government – as the Left sees it – has failed to do the major priorities. It has actually not been done a single cut in recent years, but has been smeared thinly to everyone. It's probably nice being a finance minister and not having to cut or prioritize, but it can punish itself in the long run. In the last budget of the previous government, the underlying expenditure growth was 0.7 pst. In the budget currently presented, the underlying expenditure growth is 2.4 p.m., and it is increasing – from 2.1 p.m. to 2.1 p.m. in 2012. It is a development that over time is problematic, and that makes me a little concerned, despite the fact that Norway is in a special position when we are now going to deal with the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e539	I noticed that the representative Tenden said that it was not a unambiguous yes that was the Left's certificate for the budget, but it was not far away, and I do not think that is so bad for an opposition party. I'm taking note of that. I want to spend some time studying the environmental effort contained in this budget, because it is an important area. It is an area in which the representative Tende was also concerned. The tendon called for e.g. a green tax exchange. What this government has done, including in the case of car charges, we have changed the car charges in such a way that the CO2 emissions from new cars have now fallen significantly. It's a conversion that we're going to continue in the 2013 budget. This is an example of a forward-looking and good environmental policy. In the budget presented today, we prioritise a new climate and energy fund to follow up the climate communication. We strengthen public transport through the reward scheme. We increase the CO2 tax on the base by 200 kroner. In other words, in areas by region, this government is betting on the environment, climate and development. Two other proposals that we think were important to emphasise now are that we are proposing to increase, for example. appropriations for measures to combat deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries of about 3 billion. kr. in this budget. We're also proposing two billion. kr. to renewable energy in developing countries. This is an example of a government that is both forward-looking and that is focusing on climate and environmental action. I think it's a little cross of thought – and should be a little cross of thought for the Left – that they're going to get on the wrong side in terms of assistance. This government meets the aid objective, but it is therefore parties on the civil side who have a completely different objective with the proportion of Norway to provide assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e558	I have noticed all the environmental measures that the Minister of Finance summed up here. But still we in the left think you have a misguided subsidisation. It's going on in several areas. It goes to the AFP, as I mentioned from the pulpit. This goes to the export aid for cheese, which becomes a form of double subsidisation. It goes on the net pay system, which the Left has raised in the Storting several times, and with which, hopefully, some changes are made. It is also about subsidisation and pollution. The finance minister himself was concerned about the AFP, and saw the challenges that lie ahead of us in subsidising those who are actually leaving the labour market. So the committee leader encouraged the opposition to come to grips with what we want to do, and I'd like to do that very much. The left will spend targeted money on large-scale investment in teachers, education, research, environmentally friendly transport, targeted poverty reduction, on which we have spent some time, and a policy that stimulates a more environmentally friendly business. That's what we depend on if we're going to have a future-oriented society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e566	Then is there any question of whether the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister wants to take advantage of the possibility of a summary statement, limited to 3 minutes? That's what State Council Johnsen does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e571	Now there will be ample opportunity to come back to a discussion on the state budget later in the Grand Duchy, but let me just say, as a little round of the debate we have had today, that it is important to invest in the future. This government is investing in the future. That's the 2013 budget a very good proof. As I have emphasized earlier today: One of the most important things we can do to invest in the future is to ensure that we have a high workforce, low unemployment, and a good opportunity for entering the labour market for those who want to provide through work. It is important that we ensure good growth for young people. Investing in kindergartens and a good primary school is investing in the future workforce. We can almost do nothing more to underpin the growth power of a society than to transform and develop the workforce. One could do a lot of math on it, but let's take a thoughtful case, that through forward-looking measures, we can increase the yield of the workforce by 1 pst. We know that our workforce is over 80 pst. of the Norwegian national wealth, while the oil wealth, the one we have on the book, and the one we know, is about 8 pst. So if we can raise the value of the workforce by investing in the future by 1 pst., we have to have 10 pst. the return on the pension fund. It underlines the importance of investing from the labour force of today and the future. We're doing that through a conscious commitment to school, and we're doing that through a conscious commitment to research. In fact, research funding is increasing by 2.2 pst. from 2012 to 2013. We are at the top of the OECD in public funding for research – 32 pst. real growth in research from 2005. We're going to primary school. We're betting – as we were in the line-up – strongly on New GIV, to prevent and address exclusion from high school. But it has to start before. What we're doing in kindergartens, what we're about to do to improve quality there, is actually an important prevention measure to prevent people from falling out of school later in life. We're going to tackle the competitiveness issue, and we've got a sample that's going to go through the payroll business experience. In common, in the best tradition of the Norwegian model, we're going to do a job, along with the social partners. So finally, the opposition -- at least parts of it -- talks like the rule of action is something we've been given. The rule of action is what we create through policy, and the rule of action is a guideline for economic policy. It's the governance that makes it predictable about the development of the Norwegian economy, and it's the governance that makes us have the good results we're now seeing. Then we'll get back to the rest of the debate on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e582	The President will then propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the government's draft government budget and on the national budget for 2013 be discussed at a later meeting. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-08.ana.ud359e667	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
