ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e26	A number of permit applications are available: by the representatives Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Per Sandberg, Knut Storberget and Torgeir Tjäldal on leave from 22 October to 16 November – all to attend the 67th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, of New York from the delegation to the Interparliamentary Union, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Ingrid Heggø. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Aksel Hagen, Ingrid Heggø, Øyvind Vaksdal and Truls Wickholm from 22 October to 26 October – all to participate in the 127th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Quebec, Canada of the Group of the Party of Presidents to extend the convocation of the meeting of the alternate representative of the More and Romesdal County, Jon Georg Dale, to apply until 18 October, during the period from 1 October to 19 October, under the mandate of the representative of Harald T. Nesvik, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde 24 October–16. ==References====External links== October For Nordland County: Kari Storstrand 24 October–15. November For Uppland County: Kristine Kvam 24-25. October For Oslo: Lotte Grepp Knutsen 24-25. October For the Province of Rogaland: Terje Halleland 24-25. October For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Sonja Edvardsen 24-25. October For Telemark County: Edvard Mæland 23 October–15. ==References====External links== November For South Trondelag County: Siv Aida Rui Skatem 23 October–15. November
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e128	The representative, Arve Kambe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e131	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a strengthened maritime education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e136	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e148	Before we go to case no. 1, the President will refer to the following: The Presidency of the Grand Duchy has received the following letter, dated today, from the Prime Minister's office: ‘The Office of the Minister of State must sadly announce that Karin Stoltenberg, the Prime Minister’s mother, has disappeared in the night after a few months of illness. The Prime Minister has cancelled his programme and unfortunately does not meet in Stortingen's oral Question Time today.» The President will, on behalf of the Stortinget, convey condolences to the Prime Minister and his family. The oral question procedure must then lapse, and the President will propose that we take a break at this meeting and put it back at noon. 11 a.m. for the liquidation of the ordinary Questionnaire. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 10.03. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e182	There's going to be a change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment is proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 10, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e193	I would like to put a question to the Minister of Finance: ‘I have been informed by Norwegian pensioners who have moved to Sweden after the Nordic tax agreement came into force, that they have to pay taxes both to Norway and to Sweden. Does the Council agree that there are some pensioners who have been double-taxed, and in that case will he provide a solution in cooperation with the Swedish authorities that solve the problem and remove this kind of barrier between Norway and Sweden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e200	It is true that Norwegian pensioners who move to Sweden after a certain date have to pay taxes on their pensions both to Norway and Sweden. This is the result of the provisions of a protocol to the Nordic Tax Agreement. This Protocol entered into force on 1 January 2009. The Protocol did not alter the Norwegian right to taxation of pensions paid from Norway to a person residing in another Nordic country. According to Article 18 of the Tax Agreement, Norway, as the paying Member State, had the right to tax such a pension before 1 January 2009, and it is retained after that date. However, the Protocol introduced changes in the Swedish and Finnish taxation of such pensions. In Sweden, the changes mean that pensioners residing in Sweden who received a pension from Norway on 4 April 2008, which was the date of signature of the protocol, will only pay taxes to Norway on such a pension, i.e.: no tax to Sweden. Pensioners who have resided in Sweden since that date, 4 April 2008, will pay taxes on their Norwegian pension in both Norway and Sweden. The general rule in all international taxation is that the taxable person's country of residence is to ensure that an income is not double-taxed. Therefore, the Nordic tax agreement has a provision on how to remedy the double taxation that will result from both Norway and Sweden taxing the same income. After the tax agreement, such double taxation is to be remedied by deducting Sweden — where they live — from the Swedish tax on the tax paid in Norway. Because the Swedish level of taxation on pensions is higher than the Norwegian level, a taxpayer will normally receive a full deduction from the Norwegian tax in Sweden. This means that the avoidance of double taxation within the Nordic region is satisfactorily resolved by the provisions of the Nordic tax agreement. As a number of others, the Ministry of Finance has received a significant amount of enquiries from pensioners about this. I can therefore inform you that these pensioners are correctly similar in Norway and that none of them have complained about the Norwegian tax. On the other hand, it is the Swedish tax they are dissatisfied with. In Sweden, these pensioners are taxed in accordance with Swedish rules and in accordance with the Nordic tax agreement. Swedish taxation of pensions is not a Norwegian matter as long as the tax in Sweden is in accordance with the Nordic tax agreement. It is such that neither I nor the Norwegian authorities can therefore raise with the Swedish authorities a properly implemented Swedish tax on people living in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e219	I thank you for an answer that was very consistent with what I had really expected. I also have the impression that this is a problem that is primarily rooted in poor information about the change in the tax agreement in 2008. But this does not prevent many minimum pensioners now having quite significant tax bills from Swedish authorities. It is 150000 to 200000 kroner and for a minimum pensioner it is a significant amount. If this is due to insufficient information – I have also perceived that much of the pressure for change in the agreement in 2008 came from countries other than Sweden – it may be that Sweden was simply not prepared for what other countries wanted. Then I believe that it can be a good initiative for the finance ministers simply to take initiatives towards the Swedes in such a way that practical solutions can be found for the pensioners concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e226	I am not able to find out what the information was like before, but I have also been in contact with the pensioners involved, among others. in connection with the Nordic Minister of Finance meeting held here in July. I can also inform you that the Norwegian pensioners in Sweden were on the agenda of the Nordic Ministerial Meeting in Bergen in August this year. There the Swedish authorities stated that this was a matter which concerned only Sweden, and that it was not expected that anything would be done by the Norwegian side to resolve the situation of Norwegian pensioners in Sweden. The matter has thus been on the agenda, but we have been clearly informed by the Swedish authorities about how it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e231	I don't think I have any follow-up. When it is listed at that level, I expect that at least the Swedishs will find solutions that can satisfy Norwegian pensioners there. It is important to remove these types of barriers to the Nordic countries in such a way that we have free movement of people and give them the opportunity to adapt to what they themselves want. But when it is taken up at that level, I expect that then you will also find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e238	I can also inform you that the Swedish Minister of Finance is well aware of the matter and the issue, and I refer here to the answers he has given to two written questions in the Riksdag, from 1 and 22 March of this year, with numbers 421 and 467 respectively. I made a copy of it to the referee, so it is also possible for the representative Gundersen to see the answer from the Swedish Minister of Finance, which I believe is quite complementary both in relation to the relationship to information and how the Swedish authorities look at the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e247	‘In an opportunity study sent to the Ministry of Defence, the merger of the Special Command of the Defence Agency at Rena and the Marine Jäger command at Haakonsvern is discussed. [[FSK]] [[MJK]] It seems obvious that the Marine Hunter Command's long traditions, proximity and competence in operations in our territorial seas are in favour of maintaining and strengthening the Marine Hunter Command's role in terms of maritime terrorism preparedness. However, questions are raised about this, which is why it is important that the Minister of Defence is calm and clearly rejects the removal or removal of the Marine Hunters’ Command from the West/North Norway. Do the Council of State agree to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e254	Special Forces are an important and strategic resource for Norwegian authorities. Over time, the defence has developed very high-quality special forces with very relevant and requested capacities. Special forces have two main tasks: military special operations nationally and internationally, and assistance to the judicial sector in the field of counter-terrorism and other serious crime. The Special Forces of the Defense consist of the Special Command of the Defence Force/the Hunter Command of the Army and the Marine Hunter Command. Defence Special Command/The Army Hunter Command is located in Rena Camp. In the previous long-term plan, St. prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, the Marine Hunters' Command shall be continued; ‘located to Ramsund War Station, with a unit for the production, training and training of maritime special forces, and to Haakonsvern Warsstation.’ In the 2011 budget proposal, Stortinget was briefed on the following: ‘The Marine Commander shall be organised with management and intervention teams located in Haakonsvern. The Strength Production Department, together with its staff and support elements, is continued in Ramsund.’ In March this year, the Ministry of Defence commissioned the Chief of Defense to prepare an opportunity study on how to strengthen the national counter-terrorism preparedness of the Special Forces. The Defence Manager’s study, which was delivered on 1 October this year, sets out some proposals for action to strengthen preparedness that requires further impact assessment. This is now being assessed in the Ministry. The Chief of Defence has submitted, does not address the location of the Special Forces. The Chief of Defence is working on how we can maximise the operational impact of the Special Forces. The government emphasises the further development of the special forces in such a way as to strengthen the overall capacity to perform tasks throughout the conflict spectrum. This includes both the ability to resolve military missions and counter-terrorism assistance to the police, with particular emphasis on maritime counter-terrorism capabilities. The government, as announced in the 2013 budget proposal, will appropriately return to the Grand Duchy on the further development of the special forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e275	I would like to thank you for your answer. The feasibility study is relatively clear on the benefits of merging and moving to Rena, resulting in a longer response time and a severe deterioration in the overall marine marine environment in Haakonsvern. The NUPI is very critical of the Commission's report on 22 July and points out that the preparedness for terrorism outside the Eastern region is miserable. Despite its professional strength and strategic position, MJK has not been given any responsibility for terrorism – rather, on the contrary. Now it has to be further weakened. So this is happening despite the superior proximity, competence and response time to the oil and gas installations. The reorganisation formally requires the new department to be ordered within 24 hours. Then there might be reason to ask: Have you learned nothing about the consequences of too long a response time after July 22nd? My question is then: does the Red-Green Government and the Minister of Defence support this recommendation from the head of defence, which will weaken the marine environment and lead to a longer response time?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e282	I would like to remind you that I have said that the head of defence has not tabled any proposal for a change of location. I must also say that the military, maritime preparedness for counter-terrorism in support of the police was established in 1982. At that time it fell the mission of the Army's Paratroopers' School at Trandum. That is what has been moved today to Rena. It's the Special Command of the Defense. They also have the counter-terrorism preparedness as for example. are connected to platforms. That readiness doesn't have the Marine Hunter Command today. It has also been suggested that consideration should be given to how to get the Marine Hunter Command to participate more fully in national preparedness. What must be our starting point is to improve preparedness throughout the country, not weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e287	Let me refer to the opportunity study that says that the establishment of a single area of activity for the Special Forces of Defence is a right and important step for the future. My advice to the Minister of Defence will be: take control, use common sense and stop this. No one in the West or in North Norway will understand the complete illogical nature of weakening the maritime defence capabilities and, above all, shifting the sharpest capacity in maritime personnel competence to Rena. 24 hours response time and drop from aircraft – if weather permits – is simply not good enough. The logical thing would be the opposite, in case there is a co-location, that this happens at Haakonsvernung, secondly that MJK is given responsibility for maritime counter-terrorism operations, still with bases in Haakonsvern and Ramsund. I think it is quite essential that this Council of State now assures the coastal population that she is opposed to such co-organization and relocation from Haakonsvern and Ramsund.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e294	I just remember that what I got on the table, which I expected to get on 1 October, is not about moving the Marine Hunter Command. What this is about is, how can we use the special force environments we have? They have some similar problems, and they have some different devices. How can we use them, get the best possible operational effect of them and get the best possible preparedness across the country? That's what this is all about. Of course, you also have to do that in a wise way. So it's like with special forces that they're different than other forces. But it is clear that both the Marine Hunter Command and the Special Forces that have their place of residence at Rena are of great value to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e303	‘The waiting time for the treatment of patients with drug and psychiatric disorders has been around 60 weeks in recent years, but has increased dramatically. Prioritisation guides recommend a maximum waiting time of 12 weeks. At the same time, we see that long-term places in health south-east are being laid down, at Nybøle and Phoenix Haga. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that these institutions can be used to reduce queues and waiting time to long-term locations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e310	A significant proportion of patients with drug dependence also have extensive psychiatric disorders and are therefore particularly vulnerable. These should be ensured a good treatment offer. As you know, health in the south-east has recently made acquisitions in the drug field, where they have purchased treatment services for drug addicts for nearly 720 million. kr. That's an increase of 100 million. Compared to previous acquisitions in this field, and in line with government priorities, i.e. an escalation. Two non-profit institutions serving households have not been renewed, two others have been extended and a new agreement has been reached. For the government, cooperation with non-profit institutions serving households is important. In the field of drugs in particular, we have a long tradition of such cooperation. This will continue and further develop. I am pleased that the government has signed an agreement with Freedom Norway on how to further develop and strengthen cooperation with the non-profit sector. I believe that this agreement provides a basis for enhanced and professionally important cooperation, for the benefit of patients. The representative, Höie, points out that the waiting time for treatment for patients with drug-related and mental disorders has been about 60 weeks and that this waiting time has increased dramatically lately. In this respect, it is important to distinguish between the waiting time resulting from the individual treatment period set by the specialist healthcare service and the waiting time which arises, inter alia. because the patient does not want to receive the offer but also chooses to wait for the available capacity of a particular institution. According to Norwegian patient registers, the average waiting time was 72 days in 2011 for patients in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. There's a two-day decline from the previous year. For patients in mental health protection, the average waiting time was 54 days, a decrease of two days from 2010. Information is available on the Free Hospital Choice online service that the waiting time for admission to hospital for patients with co-morbidity and mental illness varies from one week to 52 weeks in Health South-East, depending on whether it is in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment or in mental health protection. This waiting time indicates the discretionary assessment by treatment sites of the maximum time the lowest priority patients will wait before an open space at the selected institution. The representative, Höie, in many respects calls for more competition in the health sector, including in the field of drugs. In this case, Health South-East has gone out widely to get good deals for the patients. It is not surprising that not everyone gets an impact, and I understand that the employees and users of the two institutions mentioned are disappointed. It is vital that all patients receive good professional offers. Health South-East has assured me that they will. As far as possible, the government has protected NPISHs from competition from commercial ones. I am pleased that Health South-East has now concluded long-term agreements with non-profit organisations in the field of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e325	The change in treatment provision now taking place in the South-East of Health implies a reduction in the use of long-term treatment sites and a rotation to shorter treatment periods and a greater use of outpatient care. This is a conversion described in the board case of the Hospital Østfold as national leaders when, in connection with the Eastfold Clinic, an additional nine to ten places are laid down when it is moved. At the same time, 28 places from Phoenix Haga and 16 places from Nybøle disappear. These are places that are needed. It is more than 3,000 people who are in line for this type of treatment that works. So my simple question to the Minister of Health is: Is it because of the lack of need that the Minister of Health sits and looks at the fact that so important and good treatment is being offered?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e330	As I said, it's set at 100 million. kr more to buy this type of service. Going from long-term treatment and more towards outpatient treatment is not an expression of the fact that patients are less treated. This is an expression of an attempt to have offers that respond to the health needs of patients. With regard to the selection of cooperatives, the selection of the offers submitted to Health South-East, I have no reason to ask questions about the choices made by the regional health company. I have looked carefully at the offer that was sent out, it is very detailed and very thorough, and I have reason to believe that these have made good choices. They have also chosen different types of actors, including among the ideals. As I say, it is very clear that those who are being treated today by the institutions that the representative named Höie will receive good and professional follow-up in the extension, I have been assured of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e337	The Minister of Health here repeats what the health bureaucrats in businesses say, that better treatment should be provided by providing shorter and more outpatient treatment. I am very excited to get the technical documentation for that claim. The Health Directorate has evaluated the escalation plan for the drug field. They conclude, among other things: that there is a need for an increase in detoxification sites with the possibility of subsequent long-term treatment. It will have increased priority. To date, I have not received a single enquiry into the drug field that goes in the direction that the Minister of Health said. The hearing held yesterday by the Health and Welfare Committee on the news of drug use was clear that there is a need to prioritize long-term sites. Where does the Ministry of Health and Welfare find it from the fact that this patient group will be served with more outpatient treatment and shorter treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e348	There's nothing in my answer that says that there won't be long-term places in the future as well. But I think if you look at the big picture over the years, you can see that the idea that long-term places are the dominant offer for people with these complicated, complex sufferings is less unique. This means that there is a greater width and more varied types of offers offered. Getting early intervention, early offers to people who are struggling with these complicated sufferings, is important. Political offers play an important role. But as I said, it's going to be a combination of different, customized types of offers. I have no reason to ask questions about the professional assessments. As the representative will understand my answer: it is not that this has been done for resource-saving reasons. Here, there is actually an increase in the appropriations for this purpose, based on the professional assessment. But of course I am at the disposal of the representative to provide further technical reasons, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e359	‘The size has decided that in the case of investments by regional health establishments of more than 500 million. a public inquiry shall be carried out on the basis of crowns. This is in order to ensure a good basis for the best possible health impact of investments through diet and benefit principles and localisation. The director of Health Finnmark does not consider such an investigation to be necessary in Finnmark, despite the fact that it is to be invested close to 2.5 billion. krones. What will the Council of State do to carry out an investigation into future health services in Finnmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e366	Of course, before launching new major projects in Finnmark — or somewhere else in the country — an investigation of the future will be carried out. Let me say that it's a challenge in many places, because you have existing capacities that it's invested in, and you have developments in needs, and then you have to get this to vote and go up. There is a clear premise in the management system of regional health establishments that they carry out such an investigation. It is necessary in order to be able to invest properly and to choose sustainable solutions for decades to come, both economically and professionally. The Capital Region is a good example of a challenging challenge. Investigations shall be carried out in line with the Government Platform and in line with national leadership such as the Health Plan, the Food Plan and the Cooperation Reform. So the hospitals have to renew themselves all the time. It also applies in Finnmark. Here we have seen positive conversion and development. There is currently no basis for creating uncertainty about the overall structure of Finnmark, where we have hospitals in Kirkenes and in Hammerfest. As the representative knows, there is a green light for the construction of a new hospital in Kirkenes. In addition to this, it is also positive that we see several decentralised specialist health services, such as: has in Alta. I have no reason to doubt Health Nord's assessment, that it is unrealistic and not desirable with several ordinary hospitals in addition to today's two. But here, too, there is a variety of offers that can respond to the needs of the population. There is a large investment in Norwegian hospitals. Health Nord currently has more projects in place and they have ambitious plans for the future. Good order in the economy of Health Nord gives positive results, not least for patients. This is an example of the fact that when we get a health region with order in the economy, the attention shifts from constant focus on cutting to bet, investing, developing and improving. There is now a basis for implementing ambitious investment plans, and the health region manages and prioritises resource use in a good way. It benefits the people of Health North in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e377	I record that the location and establishment of a hospital are not part of the government's plans for investments of more than 500 million. kr. As I understand it, the Stortinget has actually asked for it both in terms of investments in hospital structure, and in terms of, for example, in the case of hospital structures. road structure. In terms of hospital structure, it is said that in investments of 500 million. kr, this shall be included as a totality in order to put in place establishments. As far as the road structure is concerned, it is said that in investments of more than 700 million. kr an impact assessment shall be carried out. It is precisely to ensure the best possible basis for a decision to be taken. Does the Council of State feel that it is unreasonable to ensure the best possible basis before a decision is taken on the location of a hospital offer in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e386	The answer to that is no. I don't think it's unreasonable. I believe it is reasonable that such assessments should be made. As I said, a decision has been made on the construction of hospitals in Kirkenes. I do not have any information today that would indicate that it has been done in an irresponsible way. Health Finnmark has two somatic hospitals, in Kirkenes and Hammerfest respectively. That's the situation today. In Alta, there's a specialist health center, a district medical center. Then we know that the hospital in Hammerfest is worn out, and that there is a need for upgrade. In Health Nord, they have an investment plan that takes into account the launch of a new upgrade of this hospital in 2020. Alta is the densest place in Finnmark that grows most, that's right. Here you want hospitals – you can also hear them from several other parts of the country. Forces in Alta believe that a large amount of money should be spent on a new hospital – that the money should be spent in Alta and not in Hammerfest. These are balances and assessments that Health Nord does. The two hospitals are today in Hammerfest and in Kirkenes. It's a structure I think it's wise to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e397	The situation in Finnmark is such that everyone agrees on the establishment of a new hospital in the Churchnes, that is not the issue as such. The issue is whether the new hospital should be located in Alta or in Hammerfest. I am not saying that it should be in one place or another, but what I am calling for is that we have an impact assessment that ensures that we get the best possible basis before we make a decision. After all, it is Finnmark's population who in the future will get the most out of this offer when we form a new hospital structure. In that case, I believe that when you have to invest half a billion dollars, and you don't carry out an impact assessment, you don't actually have the best decision-making basis. I'd think everyone was worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e402	I just have to repeat that I am not familiar with information that would indicate that in the north the impact studies on which important decisions were based have not been carried out. In the government platform, as the representative wants to know, we assume that no local hospital will be closed. In some cases, new hospitals will be built to replace more old ones that are nearby. We have seen examples of this in other parts of the country, as in Eastfold. Based on the government's platform, the management of Health Nord has given clear statements that solutions in the north are not based on shutting down the hospital in Hammerfest. Then there must be good assessments of the overall need, which will be resolved both by hospitals and by other offers to the population in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e413	‘The government has gone out and said that they will bet on building 1000 new student cabins. The student relationship in Narvik has too few furniture for the students, and the need for new dwellings is great. [[SSIN]] Can the Council of State guarantee that the sale of student cabins by SSIN will not begin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e420	Through economic disposals and property development that have not been student-oriented, Narvik’s interaction has put itself in a very difficult economic situation, with significant negative equity. In addition, today there are several furniture with a high level of rehabilitation needs. Without the intervention of the Ministry and additional grants to the operation, the matter could be much worse. In all probability, bankruptcy would be the outcome. In 2009 and 2010, the Ministry granted EUR 17.9 million to the Student Association in Narvik. NOK extra, which they would not have received if they had not been in the mess that they were in. The funds for student welfare go from one post to the state budget, earmarked for the student welfare. Our extra grants to Narvik have therefore resulted in the other student relationships being reduced accordingly, and of course this is not a good situation. The Ministry has followed up the interaction in Narvik since 2008 and, in addition to the additional grants, has given clear signals as to the disposal of non-student-related property and activities and given a number of other economic advice. Overall, this has helped to ensure that student interaction has been able to produce a positive operating result in recent years. Now, we need to find a good solution for Narvik's student welfare based on the fragile financial situation of interaction, both in terms of the need for a good student welfare in Narvik and in terms of the overall communication sector, which has to pay through smaller grants when more is given to someone. In addition, the approach is now being implemented — merger between student partnerships in Bodø and Narvik — so that a solution must also be found to ensure economically sustainable interaction over time. Although the operating economy of the Student Cooperation in Narvik is going well, the interaction has many older dwellings with a large maintenance and rehabilitation needs. Student relations themselves carry out an investigation of the needs in these days, and we will see in a short time what these amounts to. The Ministry wants to have a dialogue with the new student relationship on how to bring the debt down, while at the same time providing students with reasonable and acceptable housing conditions. I can't promise that a sale of the older student homes in Narvik will not be made, but I can promise that we will do everything we can to make Narvik an attractive place of study in the future. Good student welfare offers are important to ensure all real and equal opportunities for higher education in Norway. We believe that student relations are the best managers of student welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e435	What the answer is really pretty straightforward is that what the government says – that you have to bet on building 1,000 new student cabinets – is just a solid political bluff that doesn't have a reality. We see that from the answer where you can't guarantee that it won't be sold down. We see that SSIN in Narvik has the best operating result in the country. They produce a result per student of NOK 5000, the second best of which is NOK 2600. So you have a profit on the operating result of 6.7 million. kr – it's fine! The only father is if you're forced to sell down. Then you will lose income that you have today, and you will have a problem. In addition, there is talk of North Norway bets, bets in the north, among others. higher education is an important term. This year, you'll see that you don't have enough furniture for the students at all, so you actually don't have a place to live. My question to the Council of State is, why can't you guarantee? And where are you going to add the 1,000 if you don't put them where the students are?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e446	The President will recall that the speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e449	I believe that the representative, Mr. Treldal, will have a certain understanding that it is not right for me to go into various financial disposals around the Student Society in Narvik, or to conduct eloquence from Stortinget's pulpit. What I said in my first answer was that the department wants to have a dialogue with the new student relationship that is now being merged, about how we're going to bring that debt down, while at the same time giving students reasonable and acceptable housing conditions. The Narvik University is a very important study offer. The Narvik University also has many more foreign students than many other places of study. It's an argument in itself that you should have better coverage for dorms in Narvik than for other places of study. It is not a bluff that we build 1,000 new student homes every year. We've done that every year since 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e460	Here the Council of State constantly contradicts itself. It is said that it is important that the coverage is good, among other things. Because Narvik is actually one of the best in the country for foreign students, but at the same time you won't guarantee that you have enough homes for the students who are coming. We see what we've seen in several places throughout Norway, that there are gaps. But in the case of the Narvik High School – which is also the one within the North Region Initiative, where we are going to go up the engineers to get them up to oil companies and everything, and to get Norway up on foot and well educated – you actually have to have a place to live. You could say that you're betting on 1,000 student homes every year, but I'm saying, it's turning into a bluff. If you put 1,000 each year, why do you put it in the place where you need it most? You say it's where you need it the most, with lots of foreign students – so doesn't the council agree that it's a bluff she comes with?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e469	That's wrong. This government is building 1,000 new student homes every year. As I pointed out in my answer, the situation in Narvik has been demanding because the student relationship that has made a number of investments that have not been directly student-oriented. There has been a long process of achieving a fair balance between the economy and the economy. We know that there is a significant need for student housing in Narvik, more than elsewhere, because they have many foreign students, but I also refer to the answer I have given. We are in dialogue with the new communication on how to achieve a sustainable economy while offering students decent housing. There is going to be a lot of contact between the ministry and the new communication ahead, with one in mind: finding a good, sustainable operation of communication, while at the same time providing a good coverage for student housing in Narvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e478	The President will draw the attention of the representative to the fact that ‘bluff’ is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e485	I ask the Minister of Knowledge the following question: ‘The government has announced that the grant to cover the additional costs of individual instrument training at the Kongshaug Music Line Secondary school will be cut because of non-discrimination. Education in Norway is supported by different grant rates and incentives. What are the principles used by the Council of State for non-discrimination when such education is now, at short notice, deprived of its funding, and what does the Council of State consider to be the continuation of such education?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e492	Kongshaug Musikgymnas has received an additional grant since 2003 in addition to that required by the Private School Act. The reason for this is that, in the course of the 2003 budget, the Storting decided to grant an additional grant to the school and asked the Ministry to contribute the grant at the same level in later budgets. The background to the decision was that the Stortinget would compensate for the extra costs associated with running a pure music offer instead of an offer of music, dance and drama, for which the school was approved. Kongshaug Musikgymnas was at that time the only school with a pure music offer. Today there's another school, Oslo by Steinerskole, that runs a clean music offer. This school does not receive additional grants to cover any additional costs of this offer. This is why this year the school sued the Ministry of Knowledge for discrimination. The school did not win the court, but the judgment is not yet enforceable, as the appeal period expires today, 17 October. In the 2013 budget, the Ministry has proposed to wind up the additional grant to Kongshaug Musikkgymnas in the interests of equal treatment of private schools. In this way, all the private schools approved by the music, dance and drama education programmes will only receive the grant they are entitled to under the Private School Act. Kongshaug Musikgymnas is approved under the programme of education for music, dance and drama and receives grants at the rate of this programme of education. I see that it is unfortunate that the extra grant to Kongshaug Musikgymnas will be terminated in the middle of the school year 2012–2013. I am aware that representatives of the red-green fraction of the church, education and research committee want to find a solution to this, and I understand that and will contribute to further dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e503	Thank you for your answer, which was a summary of the facts. This subsidy was correctly received in 2001 for the first time. So there was a little discussion, and then, in 2003, there was a cross-political consensus about having this grant inside. What's special is that it says it's to treat these schools in the same way as the public schools that have similar educational facilities. Then it's a little strange, I think, after all the parties in Stortinget, under changing governments, have justified and put into their budgets this additional grant to this school, based on equal treatment with the public schools, that there is now another type of non-discrimination to apply, because there is another private school that they believe is entitled to the same grant. Now the law-abiding judge says that it is possible to discriminate, but how can this with non-discrimination change so completely?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e508	The appeal period has not expired in this case – Oslo by Steinerskole’s case against the State – so I don’t want to go in and discuss that on that basis. One of the reasons given so far by the court is that the Stortinge may take decisions made by the Stortinge when one goes beyond what has been given in line with the legislation. I believe that I have been responding to the arguments that have come from Kongshaug, because I understand that it may be difficult to make such a change in the middle of a school year. But we're dependent on setting a framework for how to provide grants that can be sustainable not only if there's one new school on the track that relies on the same type of treatment, but also if there's more. So here it is to do that we find something that is fair and fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e515	I agree with the Council of State that there must be a predictable and secure framework around this. I wish it were such that those who created this offer received a corresponding grant. We might disagree. Then I am very happy that the Council of State signals that she will look into the matter in view of the fact that one without dialogue, without warning and in the middle of a school year will be deducted over 20 p.m. of the State subsidy to Kongshaug secondary school. It's brutal, and it's a little predictable. Of course, this change in the economic framework affects the teaching staff and the arrangements they have. There may quickly be a failure in the assumptions towards the students. I perceive that the Council of State is signaling that they are going to take a new round on it. I hope we can find preliminary solutions, and maybe we can talk together about future solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e522	Now the budget is in Stortinget, and it's based on the contact between me and the department and the red-green fraction we're discussing meeting a solution for Kongshaug, which is based on the fact that it's easy to understand that it can be difficult to translate this from New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e531	‘Bus drivers may be penalised in accordance with the applicable regulations and receive two dots on the driving licence if passengers under the age of 15 do not wear safety belts. The regulation on personal protective equipment specifies how passengers should be informed of the obligation to use safety belts. Is it right that in the worst case cases a bus driver should be penalised for road-trafficking and taken away from his livelihood if the driver has done all he can to inform passengers, when we know how little control he has in practice over what young passengers are doing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e538	A bus driver will not be penalised for road-trafficking and/or deprived of the livelihood if the driver has done all he can to inform passengers about the use of safety belts. The driver’s primary task, as also underlined in the regulatory preparatory work, is the safe driving of the bus. Consequently, the care of the driver during the journey must be directed primarily towards the traffic scene and the traffic tasks. It will be up to the police and prosecution authorities and, where appropriate, the courts to determine whether the information and care obligations have been complied with in the specific case. I am not aware of any case-law in this area. The police have informed them that they make very little use of the sanctioning authority to bus drivers in such cases. The road authority of the State in the field inspection is also withholding the notification of this type of condition. The directive on the use of safety belts is one of the most important measures we have in the field of road safety. Since it was introduced in the 1970s, it has contributed significantly to the great decline in the number of road traffic injuries and deaths. It is therefore important that we continue to focus on the fact that the use of safety belts should continue to increase, even if the use rate is today high. The reason for the high percentage of use is enough to show that road users are both aware of the effect of wearing safety belts, that the directive is being checked, and that non-use is being sanctioned. The use of personal protective equipment is initially a personal responsibility, but because it is important that the directive is also complied with by those who do not have or may not have the necessary experience or ability to know the risk, extended responsibilities for drivers have been necessary. Therefore, it follows from the regulation on the use of personal protective equipment while driving § 3 that the driver is responsible for the use of this type of protective equipment by passengers under the age of 15 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e549	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would nevertheless point out that there has been one case of this, and that there has been one case in Telemark where the driver was fined by the UP and was about to lose the note. You might say that this has not happened that far, but in any legal case, if anything had happened, the law is quite clear when it comes to the responsibility of the bus driver. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether she can now be quite clear and clear as to whether she wants to change the legislation, so that it becomes clear that a bus driver does not risk being held accountable. Everyone agrees that it is very important that children who are driving on a school bus should use seat belts and that they should sit on the bus. We very much agree on that. But you have to make sure that this doesn't necessarily hit someone who might have done everything he needs to do to make sure that kids use seat belts. He cannot have his eyes in his back while he is on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e558	I am aware that on several occasions the bus driver has raised the question, also to the department, and I think it is positive that the drivers are aware of their responsibilities. It is natural that they also want the legislation to be clarified as clearly as possible. However, as with many of the obligations imposed on road users, the responsibility must depend on an assessment of the specific situation, i.e.: what can reasonably be required of the driver in the specific situation. In that case, the vehicle type, number of passengers, traffic and weather conditions may be the moments involved in the care assessment. However, there are also good reasons for nuances between the requirements for drivers of private cars and the requirements for drivers with regard to the possibility of being able to follow-up passengers under 15 years of age and their use of en-route safety belts. It is necessary to distinguish between the obligation to inform when you start the journey and the possibility to follow up on the journey, as it is in our opinion that the bus driver must have his main eye on the traffic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e565	I am very pleased that the Council of State is clear and clear on this. The representative of Langeland, who also represents one of the government parties, was out yesterday and said that he fully agreed with me that it was important to get these clear and clear clarifications that makes the driver not to be hit if he has followed up the information obligation he has as driver. I would nevertheless hope that the Council of State will go in and look at the legislation again. As I see it now, the Council of State is very clear that she agrees with what I have brought up here. She also says that the police in each case must take all these things into account. However, there will still be uncertainty about this if the legislation does not make it even clearer and clearer that if you have fulfilled your information obligation – perhaps you should make sure that the bus companies have signposted where it says that everyone should use seat belts in the bus – and do everything you can to make sure that passengers use seat belts, you cannot punish a driver for what might happen then.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e570	It is such that point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 1 of the Regulation says a little more about what it means to comply with the information obligation. It states that the information obligation will be fulfilled if passengers are informed of the obligation to use safety belts either directly from the bus driver, by means of audiovisual means or by means of signs. There is a reason to distinguish, in the case of bus drivers’ responsibilities, between the obligation to inform and the possibility to follow up on the journey, as there is no doubt that the driver’s diligence must be primarily directed towards driving the bus and the road aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e579	My first question to the new Council of State gives the opportunity to congratulate and wish you luck. Then comes the question: ‘The red-green government has been running for seven years. The maintenance situation on Norwegian highways has never been worse. The total lag is between 70 and 80 billion. kr. The government’s defensive aim in recent years has been to prevent an increase in maintenance kits. It's doubtful whether that goal has been achieved. The situation requires a large increase in resources for many years. Measures to reduce maintenance set-aside should start as early as 2013. What will the government do in the short term, and especially in the coming year 2013?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e588	I would like to thank Mr Sortevik for his congratulations and look forward to many interesting debates in the future. The government has great ambitions within the transport sector. This applies to new projects, maintenance and operation of our roads. These ambitions are described in a longer time frame in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. That plan places heavy emphasis on maintenance, and the government has in its annual budgets exceeded the financial envelope for operations and maintenance by 2.3 billion. kr so far. In the 2013 draft budget, there is a provision of 5.9 billion. kr for the operation and maintenance of the national roads, which is an increase of 600 million. kr – or 11,9 pst. – in relation to the 2012 budget. There are several factors that affect the assessment of an overall lag on the road network. The starting point is a lack of commitment to maintenance over many, many years. It is also the case that new technical requirements for tunnels and bridges, e.g., will lead to an increase in delays. A new calculation model for tunnels has been developed by the State Road Administration. This calculation model involves standard lifting and has revealed that the need for renewal in existing tunnels is greater than previously assumed. The need for existing instructions is also greater than previously assumed. As the representative of Sortevik is aware, the Ministry is in full swing with the preparation of a new notification of the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. In their input to the NTP, they suggest a raise to re-establish the maturity of the highways. This is based, for example, on: the new information on the delay and also the calculation methods and standard requirements that I mentioned earlier. This will be a central point in the treatment of the new national transport plan. In addition, we have also had a price increase on the maintenance tasks, e.g. on asphaltification. The level of cover on national roads is in 2013 provided that it is sufficient to stop further growth in the maturity, based on current price assumptions. Since 2005, the government has been opening, building or starting almost 1000 km of new national road. It helps drivers and businesses to experience both safer and better roads in the country ahead. However, I share the commitment of the representative of Sortevik to better and safer roads, and it requires a clear willingness to invest in both operations, maintenance and new investments. At the same time, it's also central, of course, that we spend the money in the most efficient way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e601	Thanks for the answer. The challenge is not that the amount of maintenance has increased in the budgets, but that the slowdown continues to increase and remains substantial. In addition, – as the Council of State itself had in mind – the Road Service actually bombed, partly, and has also had new demands to deal with, so that the estimated maintenance service run appears far, far higher than what we knew a few years ago. But before we get a new National Transport Plan, we have an entire budget year for next year, and here the government is adding up to a rest cut for the time being. In the 2013 budget, the government admits that there are major maintenance challenges. Nevertheless, the conclusion is as follows: ‘The total level of activity in maintenance in 2013 is approximately the same level as in 2012.’» So it's not an increase in effort, it's a break in the best case before you get behind what might come in a new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e615	The State budget is under discussion in Stortinget, and I will not prejudge the debate we are going to have in Stortinget on the budget of the Ministry of Transport. I just want to say that I think it's enough to denote an increase of 600 million. kr – or 12 pst. – almost like a rest slice is a slightly defensive attitude. This government has had a more offensive attitude than most governments before us regarding the precise operation and maintenance of the national road network. We have been more concerned not only with fulfilling what has been in the national transport plan but also with contributing more money than is currently in the current national transport plan in order to be able to do more to reduce and reduce delays, which have been worked out over many, many years. We also have to recognise that the operation is at a higher level. For example, it is cleared. better on the roads in winter now than it has been a few years ago, and one also clears the edges along the roads better. That's what one of them does. to increase road safety. So there are more maintenance tasks than it's done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e620	At the same time, it is still true that consumers will continue to lag behind in 2013, not only on the national roads, but also on the county roads. The Transport Committee has visited most of the counties since then, before creating a new national transport plan. A common message, regardless of the political colour of the management of the county councils, is that they are struggling to remove the retarded in maintenance, and they are not alone able to do it. The government's answer is to lend the counties to patch up bad roads they've been allowed to take over from the state. Does the Council of State think that is a satisfactory solution? What time perspective does the government have so that the counties are also able to improve their roads and remove most of the aftermath on the county road network?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e629	I share the representative's commitment and commitment to better maintenance of the roads, and I think I share it as well as many out of need and expectation in this area. I believe that this government has shown a more offensive attitude towards operations and maintenance tasks than most governments before we have done, but there is a lot to be taken back. It's also the case that we both do more in this area and at the same time have stronger demands for us than before. This applies not only to the highways, but also to the county roads. On the question of the longer-term plan for rural roads, there will be a natural theme in the national transport plan that the government intends to present during the spring of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e640	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «The home service in the municipality of Tromsø has previously been exempted from the sign. The police found that they did not have the right to grant such an exemption. The municipality asked the Ministry of Transport for a bill change from the sign so that the home service could run and park properly so that they could perform their services for the benefit of the users of the service. Why does the Council of State not want to change the terms of the sign, so that the home service can spend as much time as possible on users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e649	The general provisions on stoppage and parking are included in the traffic rules § 17. The regulation of stop and parking must be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the sign and sign standards. It is true that it does not provide any basis for granting general exemptions from the ban on driving or parking. Any specific derogation shall be granted on a separate basis in this case. The legislation provides for different possibilities for the authorities to regulate the stopping and parking conditions within their jurisdiction, both in general and for specified groups. As you know, the traffic rules also provide § 2 paragraph. 4 drivers of, among others call-out vehicle and vehicle used in roadworks are entitled to derogate from traffic regulations when necessary or to be significantly facilitated in service. However, the rules on stoppage and parking have been adopted to ensure the safety and accessibility of all road users and therefore there has been a restrictive practice of granting specific exemptions from these and from other traffic rules. In the view of the Ministry, there is reason to continue this type of practice. But correctly applied, it is our view that the legislation provides the necessary opportunities to regulate traffic also for groups with special needs, such as home disease. The Ministry has therefore, in its letter of 19 September 2012, recommended that the municipality of Tromsø, together with the police, look at the possibilities to address the challenges of home care in an appropriate manner, but then within the current legislation. I would like to conclude by noting that the emergency can also provide a basis for waiving the parking regulations when life and health are at stake. The Ministry has proposed that the municipality issue a document to home nurses which can be placed on the windscreen during a very serious visit. The use of such a document will have to be limited to very special cases, and vehicles will have to be positioned in such a way as not to endanger other road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e660	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say, I'm disappointed in the answer. When it's like life and health are at stake, you have something called ambulance and emergency vehicle, and they take care of that exact part. But I record that the Council of State does not want to make it easier for home services in Tromsø, who want to provide users with a better and more appropriate service. Today they often have to drive around for an hour in order to find a parking space, and often they find a parking space far away from the users and then have to carry heavy equipment with them on a long walk. It doesn't work very well. The municipality of Tromsø does not do this to save money, but simply to give users a better offer, as it was in the past when former police officer Truls Fyhn used sense and did not stop the sacred signs – and provided for that exemption. Then I asked the councillor: has there been a complaint about what was earlier under Truls Fyhn, when one had such a derogation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e669	There is reason to repeat that, generally speaking, the sign does not allow for that type of general exemption and that it is therefore not open to it under current legislation. From the Ministry, we believe that properly applied means that traffic can be regulated even for groups with special needs, such as home disease, but possible specific exemptions must be made, for example. by means of a signature. It's clear that here one also has a precedent that one has to take into account, which applies not only in Tromsø but also in other parts of the country. There are also applications from other parts of the country for derogations for certain categories, but there is, as I said, restrictive practice in granting specific exemptions from these traffic rules. It also has to do with the safety and accessibility of traffic in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e676	I don't know if the state council has understood that, but what Tromsø municipality and I want to do is change the divorce regulations. So the Council of States can do it, if the Council of State wants it to do it. I think it would be wrong to refer to the signs you have today. These are the ones we want to change, just to put the users of this service in focus, so they get a good, sensible and safe maintenance. Today, those involved in the control and maintenance of the road network have such a derogation because they have uniformed cars and yellow lights on the roof. But it cannot have home services in Tromsø or other parts of the country, simply because you have a rigid rule. Does the Council of State consider it important to listen to local democracy in such matters, or is a rigid piece of legislation the most important Council of State has to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e683	I always think it's important to listen to local democracy, but I think we have to admit that traffic rules are given to all road users in Norwegian society. The rules on stoppage and parking have been given to ensure the safety and accessibility of all road users, and that is precisely why restrictive practices have been put in place to grant specific exemptions from these and from the other traffic rules. As the representative of Korsberg may have noticed, I said in my first response that it is the Ministry's view that this kind of restrictive practice should be continued, but that it is also correctly applied within the existing legislation, for example. by signing, to find solutions for home disease in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e702	This issue has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment, who is directing it. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e709	I have a question for the Minister of Culture: «A growing number of both investigations and competition supervision are now pointing to how the absence of real competition in the book market gives readers unnecessary prices, and the government does not believe that this is in the interest of readers? Several publishers also warn that power concentration makes it difficult to survive in today’s dysfunctional market. What does the Council of State do to restore sound market mechanisms within the framework of the Book Market Competition Act, in order to safeguard diversity and authorship?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e718	The conclusions of the statements made by the Ministry of Culture show the exact opposite of what Thomsen claims. The distributions conclude that countries with fixed price adjustments have a wider and more diverse literature supply than countries with free price on books. Oslo Economics also concludes that if the market shares based on total turnover are taken into account, there is little concentration in the Norwegian book market. It shows that there is real competition. The government has decided to continue the fixed price and to start working on a book law. If the provisions of the Competition Act were to be fully applicable to the book industry, it would be free of charge for books. The government has come to the conclusion that healthy conditions in the book industry are best cared for by a fixed-price scheme. It is more appropriate to regulate this scheme in a separate book law than through today's exemption from competition law § 10. The aim is for Norwegian literature to continue to be of high quality and rich in deficiency, to include innovation and breadth, and to provide good access to literature throughout the country. This gives readers more choice, not only best sellers, but also narrower literature and books of unknown author names and debutants. By means of a book law, we both set up sound market mechanisms in the book industry and secure the interests of readers and authors, as requested by Thomsen. Among other things, the use of so-called power rebates from large bookstore chains to smaller publishers can be avoided by means of a form of margin regulation as part of the provisions of the book laws. Legal work will address issues of how to regulate margins, volume discounts, marketing support and other transfers from publishers to buyers. There is strong cultural policy argument for such regulation. In addition to protecting the smaller sizes, such a restriction will also protect the wide-screen traders in competition from the alternative distribution channels that do not take cultural policy into account but only prioritise the best sellers. It's also in the reader's interest. European Book Laws have all the decisions on margin regulation which limit the possibility of increasing margins at bookstore level. There were some reflections about healthy markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e731	The book industry has major challenges today. We see that there is a huge increase in downloading ebooks in English. This is because the government has chosen not to remove VAT on ebooks, it is seen that it is cheaper to download from abroad – with the consequences it has. It goes beyond Norwegian authors, it goes beyond the Norwegian language and not least Norwegian readers because the offer in Norwegian is getting worse. A new book law says the council will ensure a wide publication of narrow books. Can the Council of State guarantee narrow books? Daily, the large publishers reject books, which the authors bring with their hats in their hands, and say that this is not good enough. I have understood that the Council of State guarantees narrow releases, but then I could well imagine that the Council of State also defined what narrow releases are for her.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e738	I think the publishers themselves need to evaluate what books they want to publish. What we're concerned about from a cultural policy point of view is that it's not just the open commercial successes that are prioritised. That's what's the concern behind a book law. We are also concerned that book laws should be forward-looking, that they should be able to take care of and the need for innovation and innovation in this sector. It also means that it must be able to facilitate the development of the eBook market. I am happy to say that Norway is doing relatively well in that area. As of September 2012, there were about 3,000 eBook titles in Norway, where 1,200 of them came out this year. In comparison, Sweden, which is a free-priced country with almost twice as many inhabitants, had about 4,500 titles.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e747	The Council of State says that a new book law should be forward-looking and that it should ensure narrow publications. When it is difficult to define ‘small releases’, or that the Council of State does not want to do so, I already see a problem there. When the government and the Council of State do not take this into account with the VAT exemption on e-books, and the e-book has come to be, I think that then you go a little backwards into the forward-looking way of thinking. The Competition Authority has pointed out that today’s book system and, where appropriate, a new book law would distort competition. As you know, the Stortinget has, at least until today, listened to the Competition Authority and thought that it was worth listening to – but not exactly with regard to book law, I have understood. The NRK has had a report from Denmark. By removing the book law, you have to be able to control who and what to read where to read, you have been able to increase the readership of cheap books in Denmark, where authors make more money. Does the Council consider that Norwegian literature that is cheap is not worth reading?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e758	The reading list in Norway is high, and it is increasing. The representative refers to the Competition Authority’s recommendations and assessments regarding a book law. Competition supervision has given the most emphasis to price and price competition. Of course, price is important, but it is equally important that the book supply is wide. It's an important cultural policy issue. It also makes it possible for readers to have the most possible and the best possible choices. The representative is concerned that the definition of ‘small releases’ is difficult and would prefer the Minister of Culture to intervene in it. I think it's important that as Minister of Culture, I'm not a taster for what's potential best-selling literature, and what's narrow literature, but that I make the most possible for breadth and diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e765	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-17.ana.ud1295e778	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
