ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e26	The representatives Laila Davøy and Steinar Gullvåg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Åse Michaelsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e37	I am delighted to make a proposal from Per Sandberg's representative and signed a bill change to intensify efforts in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e42	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e54	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, Jonas Gahr Støre and Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from Per Arne Olsen's representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e61	My question goes – perhaps not quite surprising – to the Minister of Health and Welfare, who, late last night, commendably talked about the ‘slow diseases’ that I agree with. But I'm going to deal with something that's more of a slow state, that's getting older and nurturing in Norway. Unfortunately, I have to address this again, despite having addressed it for many, many years, and things should have been better in place. I do not doubt the wishes of either the Labour Party or the Minister of Health for a worthy care for the elderly, but this week and last week we have seen again and received news of quite unworthy conditions in Norwegian care for the elderly. Even though we've seen it in one municipality, we know that it happens in many municipalities, a little bit independent of the parties that govern the individual municipalities. Hurum, as this time was in the searchlight, is actually a municipality that spends quite a lot of money on care for the elderly, but still you have quite unworthy conditions: you offer the older breakfast at one o'clock in the day, and they get shower and hair wash every other week. We also see many cases around Norway that food is served that is neither edible nor particularly nutritious. Neither the Minister of Health nor I would have liked to find us waiting with the morning seat until one o'clock, I suppose. I would quote from the rule on the guarantee of dignity: ‘As much normal life as possible, with normal daily rhythm and access to get out, as well as the necessary assistance for personal hygiene.’ My question to the Council of State will then be: What concrete action does he envisage to ensure that in future we do not receive the kind of unworthy conditions to which we are receiving feedback today, in Norwegian care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e77	There is a broad consensus in this room – and I'm glad the representative says it this way – that we should ensure those of our elderly people who need care in nursing homes, the best possible offer. The government has worked systematically to improve this over several strategies. There is not just one area to address these complex needs that the group of older people has — there are several. One of them is that we improve the finances of municipalities, so that they are able to deliver good offers, assessed according to the needs of each municipality. Older people are as diverse as the representative and I, and they have different needs and need different follow-up. Something else is that we improve access in modern nursing homes. We're up in a share of 96 pst. living on an exclusive farm. It's being built new, it's being refurbished and it's being further developed. A third area is that we strengthen the competence of those who work in this sector. We have ensured good new recruitment to the sector, and the joy is that three-quarters of those who work there today have further training and a level of competence that enables them to meet the most complex needs. We also have the follow-up to the guarantee of dignity, which is now something that everyone has to deal with. I think that also draws in the right direction. Let me now say, because I respect the fact that the representative focuses on cases that are deficient, that there is also a lot of care going on around Norwegian nursing homes. I've seen it with my own eyes, and I think the representative has also seen it. That doesn't mean we don't have to have a restless focus where it doesn't work as it should. I believe that both the media and we as politicians and ombudsmen contribute to this. But I think tomorrow's care requires that we have an eye for individualization for a population of older people who have very complex needs. We must then succeed in providing good care and care, but also see the wider needs of a healthier and longer-lived population.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e92	Unfortunately, the dignity guarantee is not the only guarantee given by this government. It is with the dignity guarantee as with the cancer guarantee and some others that those out there, who need care and services, may not feel that the word ‘guarantee’ is particularly comprehensive. That shows some of the examples I drew out. The working party has been willing to use e.g. ringing to ensure that the money reaches its destination. In the case of the baby hail lift and the investment in drugs and psychiatry, you were willing to do this. The Progress Party suggests that the money should follow the patient and give legal rights, but in other words we want to earmark funds. My question to the Council of State must then be: why will he not agree to earmark funds, so that we know that the money goes to a worthy care for the elderly, when that is what he and his party have given a guarantee about?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e101	I think the Labour Party will always be open to consider new and better ways of doing things and be alert to what we do from experience. I can give a very clear signal about that. But I don't think earring is the way to go, to be completely honest. I don't think that's the good solution. There is a clear difference between the construction of kindergartens and the construction of care areas. In the case of children, we know from demography that children between one year and up to school age need kindergarten, and we know what a nursery place is. By looking at the demographics of the elderly, we do not automatically know per municipality what the care needs of an institution are. This must be assessed by the municipality itself, and therefore I think it is wise that these are framework transfers where the municipality, politicians and competent people in the administration and care sector do the assessment of the needs there and then. That's also how we should think about drugs and psychiatry, in my opinion. The needs must be closely identified on people, by those who have daily responsibility and are close to where people live. I think that's the way to go. Designation is not a good choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e110	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and there is a need to do so. The first follow-up question is from the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e115	I think we know quite a lot about the needs of sick homes – much more than the Minister of Health will admit here now. At least we know we're missing a lot. The guarantee of dignity has been discussed here, and it says: ‘The service provision shall be made in compliance with the right of self-determination of the individual.’ In the Romanesque leaf we could two weeks ago read a less pleasant matter of a nurturing lady of 78 years, and it inserts itself into the array of such matters. With reference to the right of self-determination, the municipality was asked how the lady had been heard. The municipality replied that the patient is getting an opinion, but this does not mean that it is what the patient wants. When the government introduced self-determination – what did it actually say in that word? Is it just to listen a little bit, for the sake of sight, or does that mean that you have a real right to participate and decide for yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e127	That means the last one, obviously. How do we safeguard rights, individual needs and participation in all parts of society? Yes, it must be in a contact between those responsible for facilitating it and those who have the needs. In our society, we are moving towards the clarification of rights. There has been a social trend. It also applies to us as patients and users of healthcare services. But it's just an expression that there's no automation, one by one, in how this is to be done, there's individual needs, that have to be made in good conversations and good organization in the individual place. I cannot get into exactly the situation the representative refers to, nor what was referred to from Hurum, but I believe that all the examples that it is not well cared for, need to be highlighted, addressed and problematised. And once again, it should happen close and close where people are. I think that the idea that it should be ear-marking and rule-driven from the outside will not take into account that people have individual and different needs, and then you get poor adaptation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e134	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e137	The starting point for the 2015 care plan was an increasing need for both places and crew. I think everyone who knows the situation for the elderly knows that there is a need for both more staffing – more competent staffing – and for more sick homes. When the Council of State uses the term ‘that the situation has improved’, it is interesting given that the situation has been completely stable. There has been no improvement in the number of institutional locations, and there has been no improvement in the coverage of staff. One talks all the way about absolute numbers, but doesn't see it in relation to the need. What is also interesting is that the county officials mapped out the need in advance of the care plan 2015. They said there was a need for 12,000 new places. The government defined it as multiple places. But how many more places are there needed in the future to be able to make a good offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e143	I believe that the objective that we should be able to offer grants for the construction of 12 000 sites could mean rehabilitation, conversion or new sites, according to the needs of the municipality. This is a good strategy, and I can assure the representative: we are on track with it. We are on track to have given a little more than 6000 of the commitments halfway through the period – that is halfway to 12,000. And it's built well. But this focused on new – if we had a one-sided focus on new places as a success criterion, then how would we make the calculation of a municipality, for example. chose to leave a place because it did not have the quality it should have? The objectives we have set for rehabilitation, rebuilding, moving from one room to two rooms are objectives that I believe take good care of the individual needs of each place. But then I would say, we are always open to assess the need to increase the effort. Therefore, I believe that the answers we give to the applications for grants are largely positive to all the applications that are coming, and then we respond satisfactorily to the needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e152	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e155	In 2007, an agreement on a guarantee of dignity was negotiated between the government of Health Minister Sylvia Brustad, Left and Christian People's Party. The next Minister of Health, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, followed up with a hearing note, where strengthened rights for the elderly were followed up as we had agreed. The legal situation had to be changed so that municipalities could not refuse to comply with the guarantee for the individual, on economic grounds. When Stoltenberg's third health minister, Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen, implemented the guarantee, the legal status was not altered. The result we are seeing today. Dedicated and good health workers do all they can, but the guarantee is broken daily. Will the government’s fourth health minister now reconsider fulfilling the agreement we had to strengthen the legal status of the sick elderly, so that the dignity guarantee becomes a reality for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e166	The guarantee of dignity is now laid down in a regulation, which we base on being followed. It's a clear signal from the government, and I think it's perceived from political Norway. I experience when I go around visiting institutions, that this is something they have consciousness of. I'm talking about it, because this is a continuous work you have to have in mind – it doesn't hold that it says as one of more and more supervisors and injunctions. It's not that the hierarchy in our code decides whether things are followed up in the individual place. One depends on – as I said – the dialogue between the user and those who provide the services and on the ability to provide valuable care services. So I can confirm that the fourth, like the third, second, and first, of these health ministers, is concerned with the guarantee of dignity and with the understanding that we've formed, among other things. Christian People's Party, and will follow it up in all communication we have with the municipalities when they're going to contribute to it in their care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e173	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e176	My main question is also addressed to the Minister of Health and Welfare. Poverty, homelessness and poor health are just some of the examples of challenges posed by drug problems in Norway. Many relatives experience heartbreaking situations when heavy drug users are struggling, and not least children experience heartbreaking life situations when parents are rushing, even though they are not among the heaviest addicts. Therefore, there are good reasons why drugs and psychiatry have been important, priority issues for the Storing for many years. Before the last government period, the Workers' Party said that intoxication should be a priority area and that everyone should receive treatment from the day they asked for treatment. The sum now, almost four years later, is that no one waits longer than drug users for treatment — 75 days on average, exactly the same as in 2008. There are 2,527 people in line for treatment, despite the fact that this should be a high priority. The size of the drug has been reported, which the drug addicts’ own organisations have said does not give any new hope. The Minister of Health and Health has been confronted with the issues of drug care and problems and has said that he should review the treatment capacity and much more. Last out came the Wenche Olsen Labour Party this week, as in the Smälen Newspaper said: ‘We now have a note in place that sends a strong signal that we want a review of the whole drug field.’ When the Labour Party politicians want a review of the whole drug field, is it not time to realize that the drug report from the Stortinget does not comply with this – when even in the Workers' Party there is a rebellion against the drug problem? What will the Council of State do? For example, he wants to. withdraw the drug notification and provide a powerful action plan to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e194	Let me first say that I share the representative's commitment that we should deliver good offers to people who are struggling with intoxication. It's also a recognition that this is a difficult field. What I've been involved in – both in meeting the patient organisations and in meeting people with drug problems – is that there is often a lot of mixed suffering. It stretches over mental health, physical health and many different conditions, so I'm approaching this with some degree of humility and lack of slippery security. That's why I want us to continue working with knowledge to understand the challenge – how we treat it where it's going to be treated, and how we can put in offers close-up testing where people live. I believe it would be irreverent to Stortinget to withdraw a big message that has been promoted, which is in Stortinget. I also believe that the big message is good, it provides a very broad review of this field. In respect of Stortinget, I expect that the treatment – the hearings that will be with the organisations, the settings to be written – will provide a basis for political work where the wishes of the representative Solberg must be expressed. 25 000 people are being treated for drug problems in Norway today. There has been almost a doubling of those treated outpatiently. What I have said over the past few days is that I see that the question of long-term treatment capacity is a difficult question. I want to know more about the proper balance between these short daily services, outpatient treatment – which I think is generally the right approach, because it's close to where people live and you can follow up early in the community – and the offers to those who need long-term treatment. That is why I want to know more about that balance, and also about how we can work together and quality assurance of the offers made by both the voluntary ideals and in public. That's the background to the initiative I've taken, and I feel that there's quite a broad consensus that that knowledge will be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e203	After there have been hearings, the signal has been very clear. There is a clear and clear desire for a different policy from the one contained in the drug notification, from almost all the hearing bodies. They believe that there is a wrong emphasis on outpatient treatment compared to long-term daily treatment, and that there is too little capacity in spending. In addition, it is not seen as a whole as a human being in the report of the government, on the contrary, you are sickening and doing most of it more medically. The cross-disciplinary nature is almost unaffected. It is precisely the type of offer that is being built up, rather than being built up, within the area. However, it is difficult for the Storting to deal with the fact that the Council of State is providing signals in the media other than those contained in the drug report, and that the Workers' Party's own members go out and say that they have now received an overall review of the care of drug users when there is a government document on how to invest in the future. Then it's hard for us to know what is the government's real signal. Is this just for the sake of sight, or is the government going to give clearer signals about the direction of the care of the drug?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e208	In this field, I feel that among professionals – we should also listen to the users, we do more and more, and that is important – there is a real discussion between the medical and social professions and interdisciplinary. I think both visions need to be heard, and they need to be weighted. If you just have a medical approach to treatment in the drug field, it hits something, but it obviously ignores something. If you just go against the social profession, you ignore the medical need. That balance there, I don't think we can decide in a big message that's being presented at one time, we have to keep listening. I haven't put this groceries message in the shadows or in rest. I have said that in the context of the experience we are now doing when healthcare companies offer in long-term places, we need to look at the quality provided in these places. We have very bad targets on it. We have very good quality goals for a lot of what we do in hospitals, but very poor here. I now want to send a signal that we want more knowledge of this, and that is what my colleagues have said that they support.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e215	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e218	A clearer slaughter of his predecessor's work in an area I've hardly heard from the Great Council's pulpit than the Council of State came here now, because the report of the drug addicts that was submitted is therefore a report of intoxication like the Storting, the addicts and the field have wanted for seven years. That means that his predecessors – three or four, I've come out of the census – have worked on this for a long time, and so they haven't answered the most basic question, namely how the development should be for the long-term, multidisciplinary, specialised treatment in the field of drugs. That theme is referred to in the drug problem in a little over a page. So a little over a page, the most important question is the development of specialised treatment in this area. Is it not correct to say that you have done a bad job, that you withdraw this and come up with an escalating plan for the drug field that actually includes the addict asking, namely that it should not only be seen, but also heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e226	I have to say that in this very complicated, but important field, I'm just recording the tone of the representative, Höie, that you're slaughtering each other in the discussion about this. If we are not searching in this field, where there are so many different assessments that I focus on everyone is serious, both those we get from the users – but they have a user base – and those we get from the professional environments – they have a professional position – then I believe that we are going into a difficult field without wanting to be knowledge-based, without being a seeker, without being a learner. This crash message provides a very comprehensive representation of the drug field in many different areas. And in this area, we need more knowledge and assessment of how we use treatment services in the daily, outpatient and in the long term. I believe that the signal we have now sent that we want to get both a better quality target and a clearer balance between the long-term and the specialised, is a follow-up to what we draw in the Storing Message. Then we're going to have this big message in this room, and then I'm sure if we have a constructive approach, that we can get quite broad common solutions, but if we want to have a conflict about it, it's the representative's choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e235	The President will recommend that the term ‘slaughter’ should not be used to describe political disagreement. Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e240	Too soon we invited, the tradition believes, the addicts to the Storting to give them the opportunity to tell us what are the greatest shortcomings, problems and challenges for those who are in the middle of this issue every single day. They took up exactly the same things that they've done every year they've been here: they just asked us to get the finger out: we know enough, now there's no action. The noise message, which bears the seemingly beautiful name ‘Look at me!’, was returned to the Labour Party representative with the message to do more than just see. They asked the government to come back with a new message, this time with content, and it changed its name to ‘Hear me!’. What feedback can I give to these drug users at their request?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e247	I think the representative can give the same feedback that the government's representatives and my predecessors would also have done: we both see and hear. In the development of Norwegian care services, the user’s perspective is increasingly important. In the quality message coming in a few weeks, it is one of the main points, namely how the user must be involved in treatment at large, including in this field – and especially in this field, where the balance between specialised medical treatment and multidisciplinary social care is important. User must be centred. Then they must be seen and heard. But it's not like that, and I understand correctly, that every user's experience of needs here and now can be what becomes the final response of health authorities. It is necessary to balance the needs of users with professional assessments. That's what we're inviting in the big news, and that's what I'm also taking the initiative to do when I want to understand more about what quality is offered in the long-term treatment sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e256	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e259	I agree with the Council of State that we should have humility when we talk about drug treatment and care, because it is complex suffering, and that is diversity. However, because it is complex, there is also a need for a wide range of treatment services. For what is appropriate for one drug user is not appropriate for another. There's probably been some of the key to getting people out of drug addiction. Now we're going to have an overall review of drug treatment, and that's especially long it's been focused on. In my former local Smålen newspaper, it is believed that Phoenix Haga has been rescued through the statements of Wenche Olsen. Phoenix Haga has a success rate where seven out of ten are drug-free after five years. There's nothing else to say but that it's a success rate. But this institution is not allowed to continue because no new agreement has been reached with Health South-East. Will the Council of State, which is concerned with long-term treatment, now do something to ensure that these institutions carrying out long-term treatment continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e268	I'm recording that health south-east spends 100 million. kr more in this field until next year than this year. It's an increase. So, the services purchased outside health businesses are put on the market. There is a very specific piece of legislation. Health South-East has concluded 19 agreements with different organisations to further this. I record that the processing offer to which the representative refers did not receive a tender. I think it was the Salvation Army that got such an offer instead. I cannot go in and review the decision, which is otherwise appealed, and the anchor has also led to that rejection. But what I've asked for, in the light of both the debate and what we see, is a better focus on point one, the long-term places and their role in treatment, and point two, the relationship between the services offered by the ideals, up to other offers. We should review that. Whether or not there will be a wish for more long-term locations and a new tender and a new opportunity for this site will have to be made later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e275	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e278	The point of delivering this big message is not to inform the Storting about a subject area, the point is to adopt a new policy. But it seems that this government thinks that the point of a big message is a discussion and a general review of a subject area. We need new policies in this area. And one of the policy areas that have worried the Left very much is the way to think about tendering policy towards this particular group that needs more long-termity, that needs long-term residence, that needs to see psychiatry and addiction in a context, and that actually also needs medical help in other areas. So my question to the Council of State is, why does he not see that the tendering system here has affected this field particularly negatively? Perhaps you should look at having a different offer in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e287	That's essentially what this government is doing. We have taken on board how to enter into agreements with non-profit-making and non-profit-making partners, because there is a different type of contract partner than any other tender. This is also the reason why contracts are now being concluded that are ongoing, which do not break this down – that new tenders need to be concluded at very regular intervals. We have some international commitments regarding this type of tender. There are also commercial undertakings that submit tenders to that effect, and they are to be dealt with under a given legal system. I believe that we have worked to do this more in line with the needs of those who will be helped by these institutions, by the fact that there are long-term agreements. I also believe that the contractual framework we have now concluded, between the government and the Freewill of Norway, which is a model of agreement that better adapts to the specific needs of volunteers and ideals, comes very far into the meeting of the representative concerned, I believe, namely how to take care of the specific concerns of these organisations and institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e294	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e298	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Health and Welfare – and we are going to stay in the drugs field. Yesterday, the majority of the population made a decision to eliminate the earmarked drugs for the municipalities. This is money that has gone to preventive work – among other things. to outside contact in some municipalities. This is money that's gone to get people out of their troubles, and it's money that's gone to after-protection – just helping to get things right in everyday life. Thus, the majority of the population introduced these funds into the municipality's free resources through their decision yesterday, with notice that the municipalities can use it for what they want – despite the fact that those who wear the shoe, who know where it presses, asked that these funds remain earmarked, and despite the fact that workers' party representatives – even rapporteurs from large municipalities such as Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg – have asked for still earmarked funds for the care of Russo. There is a reason that funds for the care of the drug have been earmarked. The Council of State told the representative Per Arne Olsen in an earlier answer that we should listen to those who are close to the people – listen to those who are responsible. The Russians themselves wanted earmarked funds, the trade unions wanted these funds to be earmarked, and the rapporteurs wanted these funds to be earmarked. Then is my simple question to the Council of State: what has happened in 2012 in view of the care of drug users when the earmarked funds have now been removed and are not going to go to drug treatment, and it will nevertheless lead to the strengthening of the care of drug users in the municipalities in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e311	If I am properly informed, I believe that in 2008 a signal was sent that these funds should enter the framework of the municipalities. And if I'm not completely wrong, there was a consensus about it in addition to the government parties, but I make a reservation about it – it wasn't my responsibility at the time. That, I think, followed the trend towards earmarking in some contexts being the right tool, but in general – when developing services that apply largely across the country, close to people – it should be included in a framework, so that those with political responsibility in the municipality can make an overall assessment. It is now being implemented. But I see that it is a challenge when the earmarked funds – before the conversion – have gone to fewer than all municipalities, and then the funds are to be distributed to all municipalities. Then it gets smaller on some of those who had earmarks before. I have heard about that from Bergen, and I have heard about it from Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad, as the representative said. I respect that this is a challenge. I understand that it is perceived as difficult. I have met politicians from these three cities and listened to what they have said. At the same time, I have to say that my colleague, the municipal minister, and so the government has contributed a budget for the free income of the municipalities of over 6 billion. kr, which provides a room for assessment in this area, in line with the needs of the population of the municipality. I then understand that those who receive services, the individual rapporteur who feels that it is less, would like it not to happen. I understand. We have to listen and see if there is anything we can do to help that way, without immediately seeing what it can be – in addition to pointing out that they have an extended framework, where they can get it compensated. But in the longer term, I believe that when it comes to following up people with drug problems – they exist in all municipalities – the measures we have in public should go to all municipalities, and the priority should be left to the politicians in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e320	I would like to thank the Council of State for at least seeing the problem that this is difficult. He also says that you may need to help, despite the fact that the municipalities have an extended framework. That is what we see in the 2013 budget proposals: all the councillors have got more money, but it does, however, go beyond the drug user, the care and the prevention work. It was cut on these posts. The Board also said something about them when they were in for a hearing. This year we have implemented the Cooperation Reform – it focuses on somatics. Then we're told that psychiatry and intoxication are more difficult to get into focus. So my question is once again: what will the government do in 2013 so that the care of the drug addicts is strengthened, based on the free resources that the municipalities have now received?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e331	I have not come to the conclusion that reintroducing earmarks is correct. I don't think it's accurate in relation to the needs. I think having a central body sitting here in the capital that evaluates ringing and a rate for a large number of municipalities – several hundred municipalities – is not a clear policy. Then I have greater confidence that those in the municipalities who are elected to the municipalities and who are in contact with the care services in the municipalities – with the outpatient services and with user environments – can make these assessments. So I think that's the way Norway is governed. There is a large transfer to free income. As far as I can see, the municipality of Bergen has found that difference in its budget. I understand that it has been a demanding exercise, but they have got it done. I think that's the way to go. Then we need to centrally design policies, guidelines, find the health assessments – mentioned in the previous questions – and make this available to those responsible for data processing around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e338	Three follow-up questions are raised – first from the representative Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e341	For us who follow the debate, it is at least good to see – and reassuringly, I would say – that preparedness is high in the Council when unforeseen events occur. Preparedness is something we're very concerned about in this room, so it's good to see. I think the Council of State got hurt to express itself almost too clearly. He said that the problems should be left to the local politicians. Those are pure words for the money, because that's exactly what's going on. Now I intend to raise this a little bit more: we have got numbers – yesterday, I think it was – that show that those waiting for treatment are waiting longer than ever. We have institutions that the Labour Party regrets being closed down, you get rescue operations locally, and you say that you put the whole drug message on hold – and you want a review. My question is: Wouldn't it be a good social economy for those in line for treatment to be treated where there is room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e350	Well, it's a good social economy -- now it's not the most important thing right here, I think, but it's good for the users, the patients, the needy ones, that they can accept treatment where there's room. I believe that it is the way – within the principle of free hospital choice, treatment options – that you can apply where there may be no capacity available. It is good to avoid waiting one place if there is no capacity elsewhere — in one of the areas that have been approved and certified to provide such treatment services — and to find the way there. I think that in general is the answer to that. But it is well under the representative's question that he wants increased appropriations for this. It's an honest thing. I think we have a high level of funding. We have a double in outpatient treatment for people with drug problems, and we also have many long-term places. We need to get more knowledge about how to strike that balance right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e357	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e360	I want back to the meeting we had at Stortinget with the addicts. One of those who were there was Michelle, a very young, beautiful girl who has been one of the lucky ones who has received long-term treatment, and is finished in those days. She had it better than ever in her life, but was very afraid: afraid because she did not have the idea of falling back to her old life, afraid because she knew that the days that now came were to be filled with almost nothing, and that she was left to herself. Where is it after-protection you politicians are talking about, she asked. I'll ask you the same thing. The lack of post-protection we've had is now disappearing as the ear-marked funds are phased out. It shows articles from all over the country. The Minister of Health will not have earmarks. He says he's listening, but what will the Council of State actually do for Michelle and all the others who are in her situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e367	I believe at least that if you were to answer Michelle that the answer to her problem is earmarking, I don't think she would quite understand what we said. The answer to her challenge must be that in her home environment, where she is going to live, hopefully there is opportunity for school, education and work, that there are people within the established auxiliaries who see her, and that the municipality facilitates cooperation between working life, education and auxiliaries so that they can follow up. This is the idea of the cooperation reform: it is a prevention reform. It's a reform that should be close to people, look at people and use resources closely. It is not a designation measure. Nor is there anything the Council of State stands here to solve, but I assume that with the framework and with the powers and authorities they have close to where Michelle lives, it is possible to find good offers. Other key actors are the ideal and voluntary nature of the place of residence. New alliances and cooperation between public, ideal and volunteers are important in the network around us where we live and live. That's where the answer must be for a good follow-up of her, in addition to the established, more – let's say – the professional institution-based aftercare services that exist, but I understand from the question the representative asked, that she is out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e374	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e378	I feel pretty sure Michelle would understand what earring is. In any case, all user organisations involved in the consultation of the Committee understood what removal of designation would mean for them and their members. They understood that this would lead to a worse offer in the municipalities. I believe that the Council of State agrees with me that politics is about priority, and not least that the main task of politicians may be to give priority to those who are not the health services themselves. In somatic terms, we have economic incentives for growth, both in specialist health services and in municipalities, but we do not have that in drug treatment. Or, we had it when it came to ruspacents, because we in Stortinget for many years had said that the growth within the ru area would be greater than the growth within the somatic area. Bjørn-Inge Larsen, who is now the Departmental Council and formerly the director of the Health Directorate, suddenly discovered that it had a meaning, and therefore he recommended removing it. Isn't it true that these patients need us to prioritize them? Why has this government removed the priority of Ruspacers in the specialist health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e387	This is a topic I've been going into quite thoroughly, because I see that this has happened a change in practice. I have come to support that change. I think it gives a pretty false signal, really, in terms of quality and follow-up, that one almost defines in the budget that as long as treatment in psychiatry and drugs gets higher growth than other treatments in hospitals, we have achieved an important goal. I think it's a bad way to prioritise, and I'm not sure if I want to say that we're usually going to have to give priority to money for drug treatment higher than, for example. cancer treatment. I believe that the usual hospital treatment has been pending for several years in a way that many people have taken the strain on, because it is mostly about complex disorders. A patient with a drug problem also has challenges in non-drug areas. That's why I think the budgeting we have now gives the opportunity to do more holistic priorities in patient careers that are characterised by being holistic, complex, and that cover more disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e392	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e395	My question goes to the Minister of Labour: This year's pay balance gave the economically active a well-earned improvement in purchasing power. However, one group of national citizens has not been fully involved in this development. Those I'm talking about are the country's pensioners. I think many of the country's pensioners experienced the state budget for 2013 – next year – as a depressing reading. The distance between the deductions of employee income and pension income is increasing. The minimum deduction rates are increased to 40 pst. for employees, while retaining it at 26 pst. for beneficiaries. Furthermore, the social security tax on pension income is not adjusted. There was also no sign of a reduction in the reduction in the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. Those I'm talking about are those who have built this country, built the solid welfare society that my generation today enjoys. I want to focus my question on shortening the basic pension. Social security states that the basic pension shall be 100 pst. of the basic amount. Nevertheless, the person who is married or cohabited with another pensioner should only be entitled to 85 pst. of the basic amount. The Progress Party believes that everyone should be entitled to a full basic pension, regardless of their marital status. These are rights worked out through a hard and long working life. For this reason, every year since 1989, the Progress Party has made proposals to eliminate this injustice. My question to the Council of State will therefore be as follows: Can the Council of State tell me why it is right – in principle – to punish Norwegian pensioners with this curtailment of the basic pension only because they are married or cohabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e406	It's about living alone is more expensive than living with someone. If we look at the living conditions of pensioners in the last few years, we see that the number of minimum pensioners has fallen. So they get to live for, because many of those who have now become pensioners have earned their right to an additional pension. We see, however, that those who live alone have it harder than those who live with someone. If I'm going to give priority, I'm going to give priority to those pensioners who have the least. It has also been typical of developments in this field in recent years. Looking at the living conditions of pensioners in general, we now see that pension reform works very well. An increasing number of old-age pensioners combine retirement with work – that’s good. That's why we see a good income trend among those who are the country's pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e413	The new old-age pension introduced on 1 January 2011 means that the curtailment is maintained, but is now to be carried out in the name of a guarantee pension. This implies that those who have had high incomes through a long professional life and who will not depend on a guarantee pension do away with the curtailment due to marital status. But e.g. the cleaning worker who is married to the bus driver – i.e. the low-paid – will experience full curtailment as the guarantee pension will represent a large proportion of their pension. In Soria Moria 2, the government says: ‘Competitive distribution and equalisation are fundamental values of the government.’ The Council of State points out in its response that she wants to give priority to those who have the least. Then my question is: why does the government think it is fair and good redistribution policy to maintain the curtailment of the low-wage professions in the new pension system?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e425	The new pension system – which the Progress Party has opposed – is a very good one. This means that you get a lot more left to work than before, and that there will be fewer minimum pensioners. This enables us to maintain what is important in our welfare state, that is, that many people are longer at work. That's why we're seeing an increasing number of jobs going beyond the 60s. I know that the Progress Party was against this system. I'm for it. Now, if we look at the evolution of living conditions among people in the 60s, it is increasing, precisely because of the new pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e432	Vigdis Giltun – please. One follow-up question has been asked so far, and it is given cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e435	I record that the government is concerned that we can get too rich pensioners. Wages and salaries for the whole population are quite good, so it would only be lacking if it were not to benefit the pensioners as well. But according to the government, the pensioner's pension is to be reduced for every year that goes. When others get a wage development of 4 pst., a pensioner should only get 3.25 pst. That means that for every year that goes, a pensioner gets less and less to walk with compared to the rest of the population. The Progress Party considers this to be unfair. We see that pensioners have the same need as others for spending their daily lives. We want pensioners to be active, and we also know that many pensioners have high expenditures on health – perhaps especially now that the government has removed the special deduction for large costs of disease. We can see no reason why pensioners should have lower wages than the rest of the population. What is the government's reason why they should have it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e442	What the representative says is not correct. The pensioners have got more to walk with. There are fewer minimum pensioners. But what is the whole idea behind the pension reform, which the Progress Party is opposed to, is that one should have a much greater influence on one's own income development and that it should pay off working. That is why I am satisfied with the pension reform. I believe it contributes to improved living conditions among the country's pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e447	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e451	My question also goes to the Minister of Labour, whom I would also like to welcome to the first Question Time as Minister of Labour. Too many people are out of work. The right has said that one of the solutions to this could be that young, healthy social clients should have a right and duty to activity. The government has said, and the council also says at regular intervals, that they are for such an obligation to activity. However, it was only in spring, after seven years in government, that the government started to work on finding out how many municipalities are using the opportunity that exists today. The government also says that they are to get people from social security to work. An important way to do this is to find places of action. Nevertheless, the government does not know how long people have to wait for measures, they do not know how long people have to wait between measures, and they do not know how many measures there are, which is a concept for people who go from action to action. The government says they'll get more disabled people into work. Nevertheless, for the first time in many years, the employment rate among the disabled is falling. It's sinking like a rock. In fact, there has not been a lower employment rate among disabled people since we started recording the figures. Does the Council of State think that these matters testify to a government with power of action and implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e464	The most important thing we can do to get more people to work is to have a good labour market. For this reason, there are fewer youth unemployed in Norway than in any other European country. If we look at the number of social welfare recipients, it's also gone down, thanks to, among other things. the qualification programme, which has led to more people getting into work. In the case of people with disabilities, I'm not satisfied. We have seen that we have made more older people stand longer in the workplace, and that we have reduced sick leave, but I have more expectations of what we can do to get disabled people to work. This is why it is perhaps the most important issue in the budget we have now presented – through wage subsidies for those who will employ people with disabilities, through better work and education trips, and not least a new and strengthened youth guarantee to provide more personal follow-up to those who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e471	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Some comments: Having an enhanced youth guarantee is essential. It was a guarantee that was broken – I kept saying – not for everyone, but for the vast majority of the young people who had the guarantee. This indicates that you may have some problems understanding what a guarantee is. It's not a political vow you can use, I think people see it as a guarantee. The fact that you're strengthening that order by $30 million. kr, i.e. under a tens of thousands of budgets for the department, I'm not sure if that's enough. So that's how the Right is for the scheme that the government is setting up with wage subsidies. It means getting a paycheck, and if you are disabled, you can be temporarily employed for up to three years. It's been for the right. State councils said we have low youth leave. We have. However, we also have more young people on health-related benefits, i.e. more young people on sick benefits than any other country in Europe — among others. Tone, who wrote in the evening post some time ago, or Marius in 19 years as it was on NRK.no on November 24th, and who told me he didn't get a job. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] The father had to start a business to give his son his job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e480	The number is out, and the word goes to Councillor Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e483	The right likes to present our welfare state as if there is an explosion in the number of young people. That was 1.1 pst. in 2003, which is 1.1 pst. young people now. It at least shows that there is no explosion. But what is the answer to how we can prevent young people from going outside the labour market is personal follow-up. And we also have to ask questions about whether the reintroduction companies we have today offer a good enough offer for young people. I am concerned with more personal follow-up. What I have talked to some young people who are unemployed about is that they were previously placed on a course with good adults. It doesn't work well. And that is exactly what is being done in the new Youth Guarantee – your own youth action to help more people out in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e490	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and this will be raised – first by the representative Sylvi Graham.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e493	The measures for disabled persons that the Council of State has just boasted of, for example: pay subsidies, work and education trips, etc., are good. These are also proposals which the Right and other opposition parties have been promoting in this Chamber for several years, but which the government parties have subsequently voted down. This applies to travel by work and education, to the extension of the scheme of group 2 cars, and to the increased use of wage subsidies. When the government finally promotes these proposals themselves, they take with one hand and give with the other. The money comes primarily from the liquidation of the deduction of large costs of disease, which have been important to many. But to take work and education trips: Is the Council satisfied that this government has taken seven years to implement this scheme? Is the Council satisfied that, in almost all such cases, the government comes several years after the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e500	This isn't right. There are fewer social welfare recipients now than when we took over, and we have made a number of proposals that have made us have more young people in work than any other country. I am satisfied with what we have done in the labour market, which means that there are few unemployed young people, but I see that those who are struggling need extra follow-up. I have seen that the NHO has launched a project called Ringer in the water, which is about young people who have mental disorders. It has good effect. Nav has now implemented what is called unemployment, which gives knowledge to the part of the working life that will employ people with mental disorders. It has a very good effect. So we've launched a series of new measures, but we need to do even more to get more disabled people into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e505	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e508	I note that the Council of State seems to be satisfied with its own efforts, and I say that more of what works should be done. That's the review melody. I think that's a little strange when we see that the number of people with disabilities in working life has been reduced by 37 000 in the last two years. It doesn't testify to doing more of what works, because if it worked, it wouldn't have gotten bigger – it should have gotten smaller. At the same time, the Council of State questions the role of reintroduction companies. I think that the management companies are a very good tool, with ‘24/7 thinking’ where they are very good at following up the individual and getting new results. Government downgrades number of seats. Will the State Council present a major communication reviewing the reintroduction industry, a new labour market policy, which also looks at action sites and a stepping-up plan to provide action places?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e517	There is a need for a large number of job vacancies. When unemployment is low, as it is now, there is a need for more areas of action for those with reduced working capacity. That's exactly why we're giving priority. I am also very pleased with the reintroduction companies. But I see that some user organisations say they want other offers. Take, for example: The Fontenehuset, which provides help to young people with mental disorders. They also want to make an offer. So I will, in cooperation with this sector, make proposals to the Stortinget to provide a better offer to those young people who are out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e525	Laila Bavøy - until today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e528	Occupational participation in people with disabilities has had a clear negative trend since 2008, and the trend continues. The government’s job strategy has not had the effect on the professional participation that it was thought to have. There are several people who have noticed that new areas of action are emerging. We also think that is absolutely necessary for this group. However, if the measures do not work, as it may seem, it may not immediately help with several measures. As I have also mentioned earlier, we have many new measures. In fact, there are so many measures that it is said that neither Nav nor users have the complete overview. Nor has it been done, after what I have seen, some evaluation or analysis of the measures on why they do not work. My question is: will the Council of States both evaluate and analyse and launch a simplification of measures and the structure of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e535	Absolutely. For this reason, this very measure of jobless people has been evaluated. It turns out to be very good. That's why we're now implementing it for people with disabilities. So I think that's important. I hear many employers say the same thing as the representative – that there should not be many new proposals when there is now a new Council of State, but that the measures we have should be reinforced and simplified – among others. Works that have many member companies, Nille and others that are good at inclusion. So that's what I want to take with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e542	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e554	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has left. At the request of the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, this question is moved and answered in response to question 6, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e563	So the first question is going to be question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e570	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘The growth of start-up loans is strong after the FSA made its recommendations to commercial banks in the first 10 p.m. And then 15 pst. equity requirements for the purchase of a dwelling. The government responds by expanding the Husbank loan framework. Does the Council of State worry that this equity is not really equity, but publicly funded loan capital, and does this strongly remind you of what was an important underlying factor that triggered the financial crisis in 2008?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e584	Both housing prices and household debt are now at a historical peak in Norway, while at the same time we have very low interest rates. On average, the debt of households accounts for approximately twice their disposable income. Many households, especially young people, have even higher liabilities than this. Even in the run-up to the Norwegian banking crisis, the debt did not reach the level we see today. Debt build-up and high housing prices pose a high risk to the entire economy. If households have a poorer economy or less housing wealth as a result of a fall in prices, they will tighten their consumption. It could affect business. A larger fall in housing prices may also cause an increase in bank lending losses to business, while reducing the mortgage values behind mortgage loans. Problems in banks can quickly turn out in the rest of the economy. The questioner refers to the new guidelines of the Financial Supervisory Authority, which came in 2010 and which were tightened later in December last year. These are guidelines for banks under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority and are intended to contribute to the soundness of banks, financial stability and consumer concerns. Banks may deviate from these guidelines if there is additional collateral or the bank has carried out a separate prudential assessment to be determined by the board of directors of each bank. The size decided last week to increase the Loan Framework of the House Bank for 2012 from 15 billion. DKK to 20 billion kr. The background was high demand for loans from the House Bank. In its position, the Municipal and Administrative Committee points out that in the first eight months of the year, the Husbank has given about 13.5 billion. kr in the case of mortgages, start-up loans and other types of loans. Of these, basic loans were granted, inter alia: for the construction of new dwellings, the repair of dwellings, more than half. The greater part of the framework increase shall be used to meet increased demand for mortgages. In accordance with the guidelines of the Financial Supervision, banks must also take into account start-up loans when assessing the level of equity held by borrowers. Thus, a bank cannot allow start-up loans to replace equity when assessing loans for residential purposes. However, the municipalities, like the banks, also need to make sound assessments of loan applications. Municipalities, like banks, are subject to the Financial Contracts Act when providing loans. This includes, inter alia: that they have to assess the creditworthiness of the borrowers and carry out a prudential assessment. This means that they must also advise against the loan whose financial capacity or other circumstances indicate that the borrower should consider refraining from borrowing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e597	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Minister of Finance has also listened to the Bank of Norway. There are many of the warnings issued yesterday by the Norwegian Bank, which the Minister of Finance repeats. We now have a historical top level of debt, and it will far exceed what was during the '80s. So there's a wallpaper here that gives cause for concern. I understand the Minister of Finance that the 15 p.m. requirement – or recommendation, that is not a requirement – also applies to start-up loans, so that start-up loans are incorporated into the overall assessment and thus do not weaken the equity requirements. Is that a proper understanding of the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e604	That's three relationships. First, it is that the guidelines do not cover central banks. They also exclude cases where the House Bank alone is responsible for lending. On the other hand, it is often the case that an initial loan can also be granted in combination with a bank loan. In these cases, the guidelines, but also the other way around, are based on the fact that it is possible to go beyond 85 pst. the amount of the loan after a separate assessment of the adequacy of the arrangements for other loans. I believe that there should be a strong and good credit rating behind both ordinary loans granted, and behind start-up loans. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to stress that the Husbank has a special role in housing financing in Norway. But it's clear that when we look at the challenges, we also have to take into account the entire amount of credit in relation to the more general points of view that I had in my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e611	I thank you again for the answer. Then we're really back to the usual challenges in the housing market. You can see from the media that there is a lot of uncertainty among people about how they think this will develop. Some suggest that there may be dramatic falls, and others suggest that it will go uphill. I don't think the finance minister or I'm going to speculate on that. But what's interesting is that then we have to go back a little bit to how we're going to get an offer of housing in Norway, which makes price developments sound. We see that construction is falling, especially in the press areas. I would like to return more to the general problem in the housing market. I settle down a little bit that the Council of State is also subject to normal market assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e618	It is clear that all experience suggests that it is important to keep track of what is happening in the construction sector. It has a huge drive in the economy. Finding the right and reasonable balance in this market is difficult. It is clear that we now have to look at the more underlying reasons why we are there. One thing is the low interest rate, good pay growth in recent years. The second is that Norway has a strong population growth, which also creates imbalances in the housing market. So these are important questions that the government will come back to, among other things. in the housing message, which you are now working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e627	‘More than a thousand new vehicle combinations on the roads will be the result when the development of goods goes beyond the ambition of the government, but also a reunited political goal of more goods on the road. CargoNet takes down the Oslo–Malmø line and forecasts cut off on the Oslo–Trondheim line. There is also no clear increase in the movement of freight from land to sea, including a politically agreed objective, even if a new national transport plan is in place. How will the Council of State ensure the transfer of road transport to rail and inland transport by sea?’ So I want to read the end of the question as it was written on the submission. In fact, drawing is important for understanding and meaning: ‘This too is a politically agreed objective. Even if a new NTP comes; how will the Council ensure the transfer of road transport to rail and inland transport to sea?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e639	The President is not quite sure whether you can change the question, which has previously been sent in writing, but at least give the floor to the Council of State, Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e642	Overall, there is growth in freight transport, but at the same time container transport has major challenges. If we are to have the same positive development in this area, we need to work in the long term, and we need to use instruments that we know work, both infrastructure development and the use of economic instruments, for example. tax reliefs. The reliefs introduced by the government in the charging and charging burden for maritime transport should be known. This became the case, among others. explained in a letter to Stortinget in response to question No. 172 from Sortevik for approx. A year ago. In addition, a strategy to strengthen short sea shipping/traffic is now being developed, together with business actors. Without spending a lot of time on this, I remind you that in recent times there has not been such a lot of effort on the railway ever since. This applies not only to investments but also to operations and maintenance, where the government has used a lot of resources in recent years. It's going to give results and improvement, and I can promise that we're going to continue along that track. So I think that we need to take some short-term and long-term action, as well as some more robust action, to get the carriers to choose the path and the sea where it's based. In the plan proposal for NTP, which we were able to deliver earlier this year, the transport modes and Avinor have proposed a number of measures to transfer goods. In this context, it will be appropriate to implement measures both in the short and longer term. The main long-term measure to facilitate more freight transport by rail is good operational stability. In recent years, we have experienced low punctuality and regularity, and prioritizing maintenance and renewal, in order to improve operational stability, is probably the single most important measure for the railway. It is necessary for the goods owners to be able to rely on the goods to arrive at the agreed time. In addition, capacity needs to be increased, both at terminals and on the routes between them. When this is in place, I think that the railway can be said to be competitive in the transport of large volumes over long distances. However, in addition, action needs to be taken in the short term, and the Ministry of Transport is now working to assess which measures could remedy the difficult situation in the short term. An example of this is more efficient terminal operations, which can also help to reduce operators' costs, inter alia. transhipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e657	Thanks for the answer. The objectives mentioned are also the objectives of the current national transport plan. The fact is, however, that developments are moving in a different direction. When railway maintenance is delayed due to money being moved to investment, it means deferred maintenance. The risk of outsourced maintenance means the more expensive the maintenance and the risk of poorer the operational routine. When transport users are unsure whether a solution is good enough, they seek better and safer solutions. This means that the railway loses customers and goods. It should be the other way around. The ratio is that the government doesn't even quite know what the lag on the maintenance of the railway really is. When can today’s users — and not least all potential users — of the railway feel confident that trains are running on time?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e666	I see that the representative Sortevik makes a point that the maintenance has been reduced. I would say that the maintenance – perhaps with the exception of the previous year – has never been as high as it is now. After all, it is proposed in the 2013 budget to spend 5 billion. kr for operation and maintenance. Operation is also largely about creating stability in operation and in the infrastructure, and therefore, in the case of maintenance, it is proposed to be 2 billion. kr for maintenance on the railway also until next year. This is very high numbers compared to most of the years before us. This means that both the ability to have interoperability and to recover some of the delays on the infrastructure have never been better than now. This will also eventually produce results, as well as looking at more short-term measures, such as: a more efficient operation of terminals. But it is true that there are both short-term and long-term challenges that need to be addressed, and a good part of the issues will also be addressed in the national transport plan presented during spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e673	Short-term development is, of course, a trend that goes in the wrong direction. What I said was that maintenance on the railway is delayed because money is moved to investment. There was no comment on the overall framework for the amount. A little bit about follow-up at sea: the government makes a big contribution in its efforts to move freight from land to sea. The lack of efficacy is due, inter alia, to: responsibility for land and air transport is separate from maritime transport. It is a fisheries minister who is responsible for maritime transport, which the Progress Party believes is very unfortunate. But when I now have the Minister for Transport – and not the Minister for Fisheries – speaking: What does the Minister for Transport think is the most important measure for a marked and clear movement of freight from land to sea? And what will the Council of Transport States do to implement such measures and trigger an impact, which many points point to?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e680	I believe that also for maritime freight transport, the interaction between modes of transport is quite important, in the sense that there must be a good road network down to the port where you are going to load goods by sea – there must be a network between rail and sea in those places where it is possible and natural. So the interaction between the modes of transport I think is important. Therefore, it is also important that this is a problem that can be addressed in full in a national transport plan, as well as the more short-term measures that can be implemented and that have already been implemented, such as: Fee relief and fee relief, as well as the issue of a broader short-ship strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e691	‘The planning of road projects in Norway takes an average of 10 years. Both this government council and the predecessors of the same party have for years promised to reduce planning time and that the objective is a halve. The planning of E18 Bommestad–Sky started as early as 2005, and reports of delays have come again despite the fact that the road is only 7 km long. When can we expect results from the celebrations on shorter planning times, and what has been done in the State budget for 2013?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e698	The government, as the representative Hoksrud knows, has great ambitions in the field of transport. In 2009, we presented an offensive national transport plan, which we have overfilled. In addition to increased appropriations, we need to ensure smarter development and also to plan faster – this is in order to get more money back for the money we spend on the road and the track. Planning major road projects is very complicated, and they are also often time consuming. The planning time varies from 5 to 15 years, on average about 9 years. This is, of course, too long. The government is busy bringing down this planning time, as it is. is mentioned in the Draft Budget of the Ministry of Transport for 2013. In the spring of 2012, the Ministry received a report from a fast-working group that made twelve proposals for efficiency improvement. These proposals were partly linked to improving the efficiency of planning processes under the Planning and Building Act and partly to the quality assurance system for large-scale State projects, and several of the proposals are also linked to changes in legislation and guidelines. With the fastest possible progress in planning under today’s legislation, it will be possible for a larger road project to have a time-use from the start of KS1 to the start of five years. In cases where it is considered that a municipal sub-plan is not necessary, time use may be further reduced. So we look at both faster planning within today's legislation and whether it is possible to change the legislation. Let me mention some ratio it's natural to look at. It is natural to consider whether it is possible to change the criteria for assessing the state level. One can look at the possibility of opting out unrealistic alternatives early in the process, for example: by making KVU work more detailed in line selection. One may also look at measures such as deadlines, go directly to the regulatory plan or impose earlier proceedings on objections. These proposals are being further worked on, and that is a high priority work. I would also like to say that, at the same time as the Ministry's working group came up with some recommendations, the State Road Administration presented a report on improving the efficiency of road planning. That report, too, provides some concrete proposals on which it is possible to go further. The Government aims to mention the proposals for more efficient planning in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, which will be submitted to the Stortinget during the spring. For the project E18 Bombestad–Sky in Westfold, the plan has been quite complicated due to both difficult ground conditions, the proximity to the Larvik settlement and the construction along Farris, which is an important source of drinking water. These conditions result in a relatively long construction time for the project. The Ministry of Transport aims to promote the Bommestad-Sky for Stortinget case in spring 2013 with a view to the start of the autumn of the same year. This means that the project is most likely to be completed in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e717	Yes, I hear strongly and constantly that both the Minister of Transport and this government are boasting of great ambitions, but there are little results when you see how little it is actually built by road and rail every year. So once again, the Council of State says there's a lot of things it's important to look at. There was a report in 2011 – we will soon be in December 2012, and therefore I want to challenge her on concrete measures: What will the Council of State be doing? We know that just through Westfold, which is 78 km long, there are six different leveling processes that have been going on to build 78 km. Maybe you should plan everything at once, and then you'd have to split up into smaller lots, instead of going through six or seven different planning processes that make it take an enormous amount of time. The 16-year extension period of 78 km must be at the limit of irreproachable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e726	I do not know exactly what the representative Hoksrud means by seeing it together. If he means to exclude the municipal processes that are going on today, and just use the state plan, I think that would be unfortunate in terms of the positive input you often get from local democracy. If he thinks we should remove the quality assurance institution that exists today, which is a requirement we have to deal with from the government, it will probably mean getting poorer quality assurance projects. You can't ignore the processes you have today, but you have to look at the possibility of making the processes you have today more effective, especially to try to remove some of the most controversial options early in the process, so that not only do they delay the entire planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e731	I understand that the Council of State won't understand what I'm saying. What I'm saying is that through Vestfold, at 78 km, there have been six planning processes – six different projects. If you had done the planning once, you might have gotten rid of five fewer rounds in county councils, municipalities and all the processes that go there. It would mean something to the planning time. For example, the OPS project Grimstad–Kristiansand is 38 km – there is one planning process, and it goes much faster both to plan and build the road because you look at new opportunities. I'm almost beginning to wonder if I have to cover up these reports that have come, which I have here, which are clear, concrete proposals on how to solve and reduce the planning time. I hope that the Council of State will soon come back – not just talk about planning time and reduce it, but actually come up with concrete measures that will reduce planning time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e738	We have extensive reports, so the representative doesn't have to give any reports to the Council of State about it. Otherwise, I think the Advance Party may not be able to hang up posters and deliver reports from Stortinget's pulpit – they may not. Otherwise, I would say that with regard to the measures, there are a number of measures. I don't think there's a single measure that solves the entire planning mess. I think there are several measures that need to be taken to actually reduce planning time. There are – as Hoksrud is in it – a number of good reports that say something about, including from our own trades union and internally in the Ministry of Transport. The government will come back with proposals in the National Transport Plan, as we present to the Storting in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e749	«E39 Kvivsvegen was opened on 22 September 2012. Two months after the new Grodås-Volda parcel was opened, he is not yet separated from the Volda page. The newspaper More-Neutt says that section leaders in the road section of Møre and Romsdal, Ole Jan Tønsen, cannot promise a new sign in Volda. It is very strange that such an important road should not be separated, even if it does not become a full part of the E39 before the opening of the Hjartåberget in 2013. What would the Council of State do to put in place a sensible sign immediately?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e756	At the opening of the Kvivsvägen, the State Road Authority has chosen a sign for Stigedalen and Kvivsvägen to help reduce the traffic to Kvivsvägen during the period until the race protection of Hjartåberga is completed in the autumn of 2013. The reason for this is that the raspous route is not fully race-proof until next year, and partly disadvantages related to construction work on Hjartåberga and adjacent parcels. In this context, it has also been decided that the ferries connection Volda-Folkestad is not transferred from the State to the County Municipality until Hjartåberga is opened for traffic, cf. Draft budget of the Ministry of Transport for 2013. The sign solution chosen means that most of the day’s signage is maintained unchanged until the autumn of 2013, but with certain adaptations to the extent that the Kviv road is also marked as E39. I am aware that there are partly conflicting views in the region about signage. In September, I was asked by the representative Bård Hoksrud if I would instruct the State Road Administration to await a sign to the new E39 over Kvivsvegen until after the race protection of Hjartåberga was completed in 2013. In my reply, I agreed with the representative Hoksrud that it is desirable to reduce the transfer of traffic to Kvivsvägen until Hjartåberga is opened, but that the ticket should also inform road users about the shortest time of travel where something else would be considered very unreasonable. This applies primarily at Kjøs Bru. The chosen means of identification shall take into account road safety while taking into account the speediest road signs also taking into account where deemed necessary. I do not want to reconsider the sign solution chosen in Volda and on Hjelle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e765	I thank you for your answer. Then we have a very strange situation where a central party council opens up a new path of pomp and splendour in September, and another councillor doesn't want to separate him. At present, there are no signs showing neither Kvivsvegen, Grodås, Stranda or Stryn, and they do not show fv. 60 or Rv. 15 from the Volda page. It's strange that a user is 1 billion. kr and builds a new road where today we have an annual traffic that is twice as large as the forecast originally was. There are 1,200 cars running every day, and there should be no sign – no sign on the Volda page at all, not on the Ferjekaia, in the roundabout at the hospital, no sign. I think it's unlikely that it's passive by the council not to see that one must have some kind of sign, either forward towards fv. 60 on Grodås, against Stranda or against Rv. 15 against Stryn. I'd like to ask the Council of State to comment on why there can't be a single sign on the Volda page.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e774	As I said, it is not a question of not separating, but of waiting for the sign until the race protection of Hjartåberga has been completed, which you are now in the process of doing, and which will be completed in 2013. Then, of course, the distance will be marked E39 as planned. As I also pointed out in my answer, it is among other things. road safety reasons and construction reasons for waiting for full signage. I would also like to say that I do not know whether this results in the correctness of what the representative says, because the Kvivsvegen will be marked as E39 where it does not affect the road choices of the drivers. It will be at Kjøs Bru and also on the route Grodås–Geitvika.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e781	I thank you for your answer. It's a sign from Grodåssida. What's my big question is why they can't use the same thinking from the other side. We might get back to that. But there's also another side when it comes to signage, which goes on maps and map data. This road, in the same way as, for example, The Jondal tunnel and other road sections are not included in the map data. They're not on Yellow Pages, they're not on Google Maps, and they're not on 1881.no/Map. There is no chart data in order to be inserted so people can see where they are going. We also see that the GPSs howl when one comes out of Riksveg 15 towards Volda, so when it comes to both map data and GPS, these are not up-to-date. It should be done – the same day as a new road opened, it should also be on map data. It turns out it could take six months for these map data to be updated. It's too slow. I also have a question: what will the Council of State do to ensure that map data and map creation are updated at the same time as a new path is opened?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e790	I understand that there are shared opinions about this, as in Stortinget I have now been able to answer questions that go in the opposite direction in a short time. I have to repeat that what is now happening is a temporary arrangement until the racial protection of Hjartåberget is completed. The sign that is currently in the area is temporary. The permanent sign of the Kviv Road as part of the E39 will be in place during the next harvest, when the racial protection of the Heart Mountain is completed. Then, of course, what goes on on GPS and other car-based navigation systems etc. will also be in place at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e801	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion: ‘The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion made a change in practice in spring 2012 regarding the suspension of the paper issue. But still, a group of fathers are losing on all fronts. These are those who have had a new child before the change of practice came into force. Will the Council of State facilitate the retroactive application of the change of practice for those who had a new child before they were going to take out a paper issue for the previous child?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e810	Let me first thank you for the question, and stress that there must be no doubt that I and the government will have the greatest possible opportunity to be with their children. As the representative refers to, some fathers have only received a refusal to apply for withdrawal of the quota because they have applied for a late deferral. The government wants as many as possible to take out parental leave as they are entitled to. In July 2011, the BLD therefore gave instructions to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to demonstrate flexibility in these matters. The Ministry's guidelines have been clarified and elaborated. In view of this embellishment of the requirements for the application, many more fathers were given the opportunity to take parental leave in 2011 and 2012. The Ministry and the department have extended as far as possible within the existing legislation. The legislation sets some limits, such as the need for parental leave before the child reaches the age of three. The law provides that the period of benefit for parental leave is to run continuously. This means that if a father does not withdraw his part of the parental killers immediately after the mother has ceased to take out his parental leave, his parental leave days shall be permanently lost, unless he has applied in advance for deferral and documented the existence of the conditions for deferral. I will shortly send to the hearing a proposal to amend this provision. A change will mean that there is no longer a risk that someone will lose parental pension because they have not applied for deferral. In particular, a change in the law will give parents greater flexibility and the ability to choose for themselves when to remove the parental pension. I would like to stress that the Department has been in close contact with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to ensure that fathers do not lose their right to a family allowance because of the circumstances of Nav's proceedings. The Ministry assumes that matters are handled in the most flexible manner possible within the current legislation. I would also mention that the agency has implemented various information measures to ensure that fathers are adequately informed about procedures and deadlines, so that they can apply in time, sail if there is not going to be as big a problem now as before. There may be cases where the State of Labour and Welfare no longer has the basis for granting parental leave. Parents will then be able to submit claims for compensation if they believe that there are circumstances in Nav's proceedings that have led to their not being able to take parental leave. Nav has to consider each case separately. I have been made aware that the Employment and Welfare Act now has such a case for treatment, where there is hope for an amicable solution. According to the Employment and Welfare Directorate, such a solution will also be relevant in similar cases, without my knowledge of those issues. I believe that the father quota is an important good for both children, father and mother, and I am concerned that as many fathers as possible can take out the father quota – and I would like more than the father quota. I assume that the State of Labour and Welfare extends as far as it can within the current legislation, so that as many as possible can take out parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e827	I thank you for your answer. The background to my question is that I got acquainted with a story about a father who lost his paperwork in the autumn of 2011, and complained about the matter with Nav. Like many others, he was in favour of the spring of 2012, but the father still lost the court when he had a child number two, because he had not pulled out the cardboard for child number one. Just before the weekend, after I sent in the question and it became known to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, I also knew that the matter was being changed in Nav, and that a replacement scheme was to be found, as pointed out by the Council of State. I'm glad, and I think that's positive. My question will then be: Will everyone in the same situation, who has not pulled out the paperwork for child number one before you have had child number two, receive a corresponding compensation, and how high will that compensation be – will it be fully compensated for what you lose out of parental death?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e838	I have to stress that when it comes to dealing with these matters, it is Nav's responsibility. What we've been very clear about from the department is that fathers who haven't applied the way they should have applied should still have their rights fulfilled. With regard to the possibility of giving retroactive effect, the legislation and the law impose some constraints on it, which means that I cannot go beyond what I have done in my answer. I also do not know the variation in the issues to which the representative refers – I do not know what is common to them, and what is different, because I do not know the individual matters. But I assume that Nav will treat these in a flexible way. That others who may wish to apply for compensation make it Nav, having regard to, for example: has been obstinate by Nav, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e845	I record that the Council of State says it's Nav's responsibility, but as far as the amount of compensation is concerned, it's more of a political responsibility, and I expected the Council of State to have made some thoughts and reflections about it. But I also have another question: In the case I point out, it has taken one year to process the case and complain back and forth in the Nav system before he/she has changed his/her case. The councils point to flexibility in the Nav system, but one year of wrangling between the person and Nav does not show exactly any great flexibility. My question is: is it only because the press and politicians use the national media that Nav and the department turn around in these matters? If that is the case, what legal certainty is there against all those who are not allowed to try their cases in the national media? The question is then: how will the Council of State ensure that everyone has the same legal certainty, and that they do not go through the media and national politicians to get their demands through?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e854	Among other things, by not going into individual matters. That is why I have also been far from commenting on individual matters, because it is important that those responsible for individual matters do the job. But what we've been clear to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, which we can instruct, is that we have to show flexibility. We've had some laps, with which the representative may be familiar, related to just this. We have solved that question – and you have to be flexible. So at the same time, Nav has a lot of case handlers, and this is a very complicated code. Training of case handlers is essential. New ICT systems, which we are putting in place, are essential, and also a more simplified regulatory framework. Because it is a fact that some fathers have not understood the legislation. We've thought that it's important that fathers have the opportunity to be with their children. We have chosen to look through our fingers that some fathers have not searched the way they should have done according to the law, and it's because we think it's more important that they get the opportunity to be with their children than we do the ruleriding at this particular point. But there are changes and simplifications that will make this easier in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e869	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Children, Gender and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e872	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘Reisa National Park and Ráisduottarháldi Landscape Protection Area in the municipality of Nordreisa and two Landscape Protection Areas in the municipality of Kvänange cover an area of 1 179 km2. Despite size and, in part, demanding geography, the protection areas of Nord-Trom have been allocated a common administrative resource, corresponding to one position. What criteria underpin the allocation of administrative resources and will the Council of State re-evaluate the sharing of resources to ensure that the National Park Board of Reisa is fully committed to its comprehensive work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e881	I am very pleased with the commitment of the new system of local management of our protection areas. The municipalities assumed a great responsibility when they agreed to sit on the boards of the national parks and the other major protection areas to manage national and international values – not on behalf of themselves, but on behalf of the whole nation and not least on behalf of the generations that come after us. I am also proud that this government has focused on the management of the protection areas. We have increased the appropriations for management by approx. 209 million. kr – from approximately 62 mill. In 2007 until approx. 270 million. kr, which is now proposed in the 2013 budget. When recruiting AIFMs, I always make an overall national assessment within the current budgetary framework. The criteria I use in this assessment are, of course, among other things. the size of the protection areas, the number of protection areas and, where appropriate, the number of control areas to be served by the AIFM, the use in the area and other challenges facing the different areas. I have received letters from the National Parks Board in Reisa, where they raise the challenges they face in this national park. I would like to invite the board to a meeting as they ask. I would then like to discuss the situation in Reisa National Park in more detail with the National Parks Board.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e892	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was positive. With regard to national parks and their management, I think there is a cross-political consensus that we have a responsibility, we who live today, to take care of them further. So I want to add that Reisa National Park is a very popular tour area. There are amazing natural values, and there is an extensive use of that park. The Tourist Association has, among other things: one of its most popular routes between Kautokeino and Nordreise. This is important for culture and travel, it's important for people that we get good governance of this national park. So if we're looking at size here – if it's going to be a criterion – then the protection areas that now have one position for administration are as large as half the Westfold counties, and I'm assuming that the Council of State actually has a relation to that. Does the Council agree that there is a basis for re-viewing the allocated resource in view of the size of this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e903	Now, the Minister for the Environment, who I answer on behalf of, says that you want to attend a meeting. And then this might also be the theme of that meeting. I'm not going to shoot that, but at least the starting point is the representative of Aspaker, which is that the national parks are a great value. And what's really fun is to see that this collaboration between central and local now is getting better and better. There is also agreement on the new model of local government, which was widely endorsed by the Stortinget in 2009, and which is also agreed by the Right. It is also important, of course, to include local knowledge – that is something we centrally appreciate and see the value of – that you get a responsibility and that you have local knowledge that is valuable in managing these areas. Next year, we aim to complete the implementation of the new model of national parks and the other major areas of protection – already in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e912	I just want to stress that, as far as I am aware, there are no other national parks that have had to share the management position with other types of protection areas. I would also like to say that the municipality of Nordreisa – and the government that has been elected there – is very concerned about getting good and proper use, but at the same time it must be possible to develop nourishment in the periphery of a national park that is highly valued for its natural values, whether it is the boat trips on the river itself, visits to Mollisfossen or the tourists that are very well visited. It is also a fact that Troms and Nordland have not been involved in the construction of the strengthening that has been of the State’s nature oversight. So you get to this giant area only one whole position to walk with – despite the fact that there is a great geographical distance between the protected areas of Kvönagen and Nordreisa. So if you don't want the administrator to sit more in a car than manage, at least it's important to look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e919	I expect that this is not a particularly big wish from the Ministry of the Environment. But the commitment to good management of these areas should be the best starting point for good cooperation. And then the representative Aspaker addresses the issue of business activities in the periphery. I will not try to answer that on behalf of the Minister for the Environment. I suppose that would be a hot and certainly very difficult topic in those meetings. But at least I assume that cooperation now, across the local and state levels and these professional environments that have been able to be incorporated into the administration of protected areas and national parks, seems to work very well in most places.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e932	First, there may be reason to congratulate both the President and the Council of State to respond, on the nominations last night. So to the question: ‘More independent religious communities have been denied their applications for state grants because they have allegedly been harmed by the submission of an empty CD on the submission of member lists. Does the Council of State believe that such strict management of State aid applications is in line with the principle that independent religious communities should receive their share of the taxes paid by their members for the sake of freedom of belief and will the Council of State take the initiative to receive the support of the religious communities concerned for the year?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e943	The non-Norwegian community grant scheme covers more than 650 communities and around 500,000 members. The need for progress and for defence control make it necessary to have an indispensable deadline. The list of birth numbers for all members for whom a supplement is required shall be submitted together with the requirement. It is set out in the Regulation on registered and unregistered religious communities and in the annual circular on the supplementary scheme. In the Ministry of Culture its circular on the additions to the community of threats and life in 2012 it is called.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The believing and life-view societies shall complete the attached form of requirements and submit a digitally readable list of birth numbers for all members for whom a subsidy is required on the CD-ROM, memory stick or, where applicable, diskette. No grants will be paid to religious and life views that do not submit such a list of members. Associations must make sure in advance that the CD-ROM/memory disk actually contains an overview of the birth number and that the file is readable.» It is further called in the circular: ‘People do not check whether the CD-ROM/memory disk contains a file or whether it is read or password protected. If an empty CD-ROM/memory/diskette is submitted, the state subsidy requirement shall be rejected.’; [[...]] The newsletter was posted on the Ministry of Culture’s website on 1 February 2012, in other words in good time before the deadline. In addition, the statesmen are passed on to the truss and life-vision communities. We know that it is important for the communities to get the state grant as early as possible, and that is why it is suggested that the state grant should have been paid by 15 June. It is only possible that the set requirement period will not be waived. The submission lists are the basis for the payment of both government and municipal contributions, and together they are at the base of half a billion. kr per year. Of course, it is crucial to have a satisfactory control of the data transmitted. All submissions are controlled against each other to avoid double membership. It requires all member lists to be in place in the blink of an eye. We must be able to assume that leaders in society themselves control information as important as birth numbers, etc. is correct when the material is submitted. Of the approximately 650 communities that have submitted membership lists in 2012, the Ministry of Culture has received six complaints about refusals due to empty CDs, i.e. that almost all communities have submitted the correct CDs or memory sticks. I understand that it is challenging for a trust society to be denied, precisely because this system is rights-based, but for the sake of non-discrimination, the refusal must be maintained. I therefore do not want to take the initiative to get these matters changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e975	I have to say I was a little excited about what the answer would be, whether it was the formalist that was to be drawn out, or whether it was to think that the administration is actually for those who are going to benefit from various services that it does on behalf of all of us in society. I must record with disappointment that the Council of State chose the formalistic approach, and here, to stick to the terminology of religious communities, there was no mercy. If, for reasons of efficiency – when you look at other things, it’s a little interesting that it’s valued so high right here – you can’t take a phone or send an e-mail and say that sorry, here it doesn’t seem that there was any content on the CD, I have to say that I think it’s drawing the efficiency cause well far, but I understand that the council doesn’t think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e982	I think that first and foremost these rules are about non-discrimination, and there is a certain justification in that one has clear rules, clear circulars, which even take very specific examples, which in this case proved to be in practice, i.e. empty CDs that have been sent in. One is quite clear on how to deal with it, that it is the responsibility of trust and life-view societies to ensure that the information they submit is correct and correct and can be used for the purpose for which it is intended. In that light, I also believe that the belief and life-view communities have received the guidance they need to submit the information they are about to receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e989	I don't think anyone disagrees that it's clear what to do, and what deadlines apply. The question is also that when one discovers that a CD that is empty may have been sent in by mistake, one cannot, I understand, send an e-mail or lift up the pipe and say that sorry, you can send it again, otherwise you will not receive any support. It gets too demanding, I see, even if I don't get it. I cannot understand that this has to do with non-discrimination. Everyone's going to get their heads, but the question is whether you can show some liberalism, some flexibility, when it's obvious that this is made a mistake, and when the error can actually be corrected by a phone or an e-mail. So I might ask the council to think over again if she can see if it's possible to be a little more flexible than the first answer gave the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e996	It is not difficult to empathize with the belief and life-sense societies that now experience that they have been in a difficult situation because they have not sent in enough information when they were to submit it. I'm noticing that of the almost 650 trust and life-view societies that this is all about, we've received six complaints. This means that the overwhelming majority are able to adhere to the guidelines given, and that, after all, they are clear enough. The option outlined by the representative Syversen may, in practice, mean that the statesmen open all the CD-ROMs and check whether they contain a file with a birth number, and then write to the communities that have sent in an empty CD, giving a deadline for the submission of a new CD. Another option would have been that it was done by Brønnøsundregistra after the claim period had expired. Both options are time-consuming, because they're talking about 650 communities, roughly. It will delay the roll-out order, because the communities are unable to receive support until all the lists are controlled against each other. This is both about non-discrimination and about a trustee on behalf of everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e1007	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-28.ana.ud2430e1020	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
