ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e26	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e29	I am pleased to promote a proposal by the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik, Oskar J. Grimstad, Åge Starheim and myself to set up a new vulnerability committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e46	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main question, from Per Arne Olsen's representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e53	My question goes to the Minister of Health. And I can, while she's on her way up here, reassure her that I'm not going to ask questions about Bente Mikkelsen's education trip to Rome, but I'm going to get into the field of cancer and prostate cancer. There were many who responded when in November I let the bar grow, as part of the Movember action. I must honestly admit that the aesthetics were not at their best, it was not beautiful, but it was not the most important thing either. In this way you can find comfort in the fact that some hotel owners have recently gone into the same barterie. What was important about the Movember action, however, was to focus on prostate cancer. Prostatic cancer is the most common form of cancer among men, and unfortunately it is also such that Norway tops the statistics on the number and mortality of prostate cases associated with this disease. In today's Business on 7 January, one of Norway's leading prostate surgeons takes the leaf from his mouth and says the following: ‘I would have gone abroad to operate prostate cancer, if I had had the resources.’ He explains this in the following way: ‘These are shorter waiting times, often given the latest equipment, the most experienced surgeons.’ He refers to the lack of medical equipment and the lack of private use as an obvious problem in Norway. We have had a year when cancer treatment, waiting times and guarantees have been the subject of great debate. It is perfectly obvious that the government will soon have to do something and not just talk. So my question to the Minister of Health is this: Will the Minister of Health, like one of Norway's leading prostate surgeons, recommend Norwegian men to go abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e76	It has always been that someone chooses to travel abroad for treatment. But my concern is to create good treatment in Norway, so that there should be no question whatsoever for anyone if they should have to travel abroad. It is possible to produce the Norwegian health care system in many ways, but I would like to stress that the Norwegian health care system is at the top of the world in many areas. Then we have our missing somewhere. Prostate cancer is an area where we see, and has seen repeated media headlines and also in the debate here in Stortinget, that there are a lot of people waiting for a long time. We also saw that while this doctor in Oslo went out in today's business, there was one in the West who had a different vision. Then it's the discussions about when to operate, how to operate, and who to operate. There are demanding questions, and I've understood that it's particularly demanding in prostate cancer. There's no doubt that this is a cancer that we have to take very seriously, and that we have to build up operational capacity for in some hospitals. That's exactly why we have these objectives and have made demands on the hospitals for a treatment course in cancer that we can measure, and that they should be arranged to provide good treatment for men with prostate cancer as well as for women who get other cancers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e85	The Health Council says that you have to create a good treatment and thus ensure that there is no need to travel abroad. That's what's at the heart of the question. What is the Council of State's response to create this good treatment? Where are the proposals to buy more and new equipment, PSA screening, for example, so that you can detect prostate cancer earlier? Where are the proposals that will increase capacity? Where are the proposals that will improve the quality of Norwegian surgeons, which are good, but which can be even better? What I'm wondering, and I think many in Norway are wondering, is not just hearing about everything that's good, but what the Council of State should do to create the good treatment she says she wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e90	I would like to stress that we have good treatment in Norway. So we know that in some areas we can get even better. That's why we're measuring. That's why we've increased the budgets of hospitals, so that they'll be able to renew both equipment and buildings when needed, and also competence, if that's what's necessary. That's why we've set targets, we're demanding hospitals how to arrange the treatment for 80 pst. of all cancers. We have focused on increasing competence and not least on measuring results. If we're going to know if we're getting better, we're going to have to measure. That's what we've started with. The figures have been published. We also see very happy numbers for some cancers. We've measured three especially now in terms of waiting times. Next year we're going to measure a lot more. We see joyous numbers for someone. Some hospitals are already targeting this, but we can get better in many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e95	Three follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first by the representative Jon Jäger Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e98	There are two critical factors we see in the suspicion of prostate cancer. One is the time that goes from the supervisor to the specialist and until you get a biopsy and possibly an MR, and the other is the time that goes on until surgery. These time factors are critical to the continuation of treatment and survival. Today it takes between 16 weeks and up towards one year here in Norway. How do the state councils view the time factors in view of the government's so-called cancer guarantee objective? That's the one question. The second is on the factor called ‘learning by doing’. In Norway, it is up to 40 pst. of the operators who have erection problems and urinary leakage after a prostate operation. In the United States we hear about hospitals where only 2 pst. have such aftereffects. How will the Council of State reduce the negative repercussions in Norway on the affected man population?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e105	I say in some areas we're good, in some areas we can get better. It is evident that the need for treatment of prostate cancer is increasing. We have to take that seriously. Competence is involved, it is an increase in operational capacity, but it is also a question of finding the right methods. In fact, precisely because of side effects, there is also a technical disagreement about when you are going to enter and operate. At least that is not a political issue, but as politicians, of course, we should facilitate surgery. In the case of general health checks and PSA tests, the health authorities’ recommendation in relation to it is at this stage that we should not do so until now, not without the general hereditary nature of the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e112	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e115	I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Council a good new year. We are now entering 2012, which is a year when there is no current national strategy against cancer. The strategy developed by the Bondevik II government, in force until 2009, was extended by this government until 2011 and has now expired. This means that one no longer has an updated plan for a reinforced effort to combat cancer, a disease that affects the vast majority of families. The spring, the summer and the harvest that we have behind us shows that this is an area where there is an absolute need to look at the whole of it both in terms of prevention, diagnosis and treatment, and not least in relation to the rehabilitation of those who have been through treatment. Will the government now take the initiative to set up a new working group to set up a new national strategy to combat cancer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e123	It has been very important to have a strategy for treating cancer. The most important thing we are doing now is the measures to implement what we have said we are going to implement. The first is that the Health Directorate has provided guidance and guidance on many cancers. People from the highest professional community in Norway have been used to develop these guidelines, and one of the last was on prostate cancer. Then I very much agree that we need to put in place the impact on prevention. Prevention is very important. The now implemented interaction reform is one of the responses to prevention. We know that if we are to avoid more cancers – there are today a lot of people in Norway who get cancer – we need to focus more on prevention. I believe that we are taking many measures in different areas that are crucial for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e132	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e135	I received an e-mail from a patient, a man, in the West in December. He writes the following: I was at the hospital in May 2011 and took samples that showed that I have prostate cancer – it was almost seven months ago. When I contacted the hospital in December, I was told that the waiting list is long, and that I have not yet been allocated space. In this case, a cancer-diagnosed man – so he has prostate cancer – has to call the hospital himself at regular intervals when he is going to be treated. Then it's hard to know what a patient should do, and give advice. Not knowing when the treatment starts has to be almost worse than everything. My question is, what in the world is this man going to do? The 20-day treatment period for cancer treatment, which was announced around the election campaign by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, will probably also apply to those who were diagnosed before this deadline was given, I expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e144	Patients should not be unsure of what the next step of a treatment course should be. I am aware that for some prostate cancer types health professionals consider that they should wait for a while. However, if someone is set up and should have treatment — surgery or whatever it may be — the objective is for 80 pst. the cases shall be initiated within 20 days. If treatment cannot be started, the patient should at least have a thorough knowledge of why treatment is not started, and this should also be included in the journal. I believe that it is not good enough when some patients themselves have to follow up to the hospital. We have now established a patient coordinator for those with serious diseases — cancer is one of them — so that the individual patient can have a fixed point of contact with the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e153	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e156	After the second tertiary in 2011, there are 2,948 people who are addicted to drugs in line. They want to be treated so they come in a situation where they no longer depend on drugs. In 2005, the Minister of Health at that time, Ansgar Gabrielsen, introduced what I would call a golden rule for all health businesses, namely that the growth of drugs and psychiatry alone should be greater than the growth of somatic products. This was a golden rule to ensure – when the psychiatry escalation plan was over, but many were still in line for drug treatment – that hospitals were managed so that, not always, as in the years before, it was the somatic patients who won the battle for resources. Unfortunately, health care history shows us that these two patient groups are constantly being discriminated against at all levels of our healthcare system, both in relation to the healthcare system every day and also in relation to the areas of economic priority, both within the healthcare system and unfortunately also politically over the years. That's why there was a need for such a golden rule. I believe that there is a greater need for such a golden rule in the years to come, given that more than 2,900 people with drug dependence are still in line. That is why I am amazed to read the mission document to the hospitals for 2012, where the government for the first time removes this rule, which has been in force since 2005. Does the Minister of Health think that the situation now suggests that it makes sense to remove this rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e163	It is important to manage hospitals, but it is important to manage hospitals not only by constantly spending extra money – which has been followed up, including by this government year after year in relation to giving priority to drugs and mental health – but also by giving priority to results and quality. That's what I'm concerned about. Nor is it the case that there is discrimination against patients on the basis of the same budgetary growth for drug and mental health as in somatic matters. It has to be worked on in completely different arenas than through the budget, although, of course, the budget is a very important part in relation to activity. Now there has been a strong priority for drug use and mental health for many years. We see that it is also important to be able to prioritise other forms of treatment, for example: cancer, on which there has been a lot of focus, which is very important, and we have to try to do everything. However, we also see that in the area of mental health, we can improve the effectiveness and quality of treatment. One of our answers is the right treatment at the right place and at the right time. It is to implement the cooperation reform, it is to be able to do more in municipalities, that good treatment can be provided, including for those entering treatment, which is particularly important. I am very concerned that those who need it should be able to receive treatment in the specialist health service, but equally important is the follow-up they receive in the community health service. Therefore, I am optimistic that we will improve on this in the future, because there is no doubt that there is a need to increase both capacity and, not least, quality and performance in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e172	I am very disappointed to hear that it is actually a deliberate priority on the part of the Minister of Health to remove this golden rule, which was supposed to give drug addicts a greater opportunity to get treatment, in a situation where over 2,900 people are in line. The Minister for Health himself mentions the Reform of Cooperation. In the interaction reform, there is no financial incentive for municipalities and hospitals to provide better treatment for drug addicts. On the contrary, the municipalities now get a very strong incentive to receive the somatic patients faster from the hospital. They get a penalty of NOK 3000 a day if they don’t, but they don’t get a penalty if they don’t provide a good follow-up offer to those addicts who have been in treatment. When the Minister of Health now both removes the golden rule and introduces an interaction reform that prioritises somatic patients, we will be able to see that the rubrics get a higher threshold into treatment, and once they have entered treatment, it becomes more difficult for them to get a good offer in the municipality once they have finished treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e177	Both the escalation plan for the drug field and the psychiatry escalation plan have resulted in additional appropriations year by year in both drug and mental health. We've followed that up, and we're still going to do that. There has been an enormous amount of investment in these areas. It's still going to be, and so it's not that the increase itself is a guarantee of quality. The quality of treatment needs to be improved, that we get more of the resources we have, and that there is a better connection in the services between the municipality and the specialist health service. In order to do so, you need, among other things, to: conclude agreements. The fact that these agreements are now statutory – the first part of the works of agreement to be completed by 31 January – is of particular importance both in order to have binding cooperation between municipalities and hospitals and to ensure that this is followed up. I can almost not imagine any groups that are more important in relation to the cooperation reform than those who are struggling with alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e182	Four follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e185	A multidisciplinary unit for double diagnosis, intoxication and severe mental illness, TEDD, at the Diakon home, is at risk of death. The background is that Health South-East has announced a large cut in the appropriations for mental health protection in Oslo, and the Diakon home has received a claim for a saving of 40 million. Dr and sees need to reduce this offer to drug addicts and seriously mentally ill, which is one of the few daily services with a high level of competence for this group. The Minister for Health, in rather vague terms, has said in the past that this important offer should not be made, but that is what is now about to happen. So my simple question is, is this interdisciplinary unit for double diagnosis, intoxication, and severe mental illness, TEDD, in Oslo being maintained, or is it being dismantled?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e191	As regards changes in the supply of drugs and mental health, there has been a shift in resource use from less daily services to more daily and outpatient services. It also shows the treatment statistics. But that doesn't mean it's not important. It is very important that we receive good treatment for these groups, even for those with special problems, such as double diagnosis. They must be treated in Health South-East. However, there have been some re-priorities in relation to treatment methods. In this particular case, this one institution, I have to get back to the very specific answer, but in general it has to be a treatment offer for all groups, including those with double diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e198	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e201	As a politician, I am often confronted with drug users and mentally ill people who have waited up to two years for long-term treatment. I have raised this with the Minister of Health several times, and every time she says that this should not be the case, but that there are needs and rights that should govern the offers. But reality isn't like that. At the same time, we know that there is free capacity across the country. When will the Minister of Health acknowledge that the waiting time is up to two years? And when can we expect that there are actually rights and needs that govern, and not the health business economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e208	It shall be the rights and needs of the patients who govern. If you're acutely ill, you need immediate help, no matter what diagnosis you might have. It's a very important principle. So it's also that to some institutions it's a long wait. Many people want special institutions and special treatment services, where there are long waiting times. Once again, for this particular group, it is equally important that there is a context in the treatment provision in the specialist healthcare service and in the municipality. Then we must not forget that after all there have been many different offers, not least in Oslo, for this group. It's important. But the fact that we are now submitting a drug report shows that we want to do more and discuss what the right measures are.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e219	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e222	I want to follow up where the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli stopped, namely with TEDD, i.e., the cross-disciplinary unit for double diagnosis. This is a good example of a measure that is liquidated before the re-establishment of similar offers. The Council of State answered me last week on a question about this. The TEDD has been adopted and the Council of State answers that operations will not lapse but will be reorganised into another form of operation. She also says that no one in the patient group should receive a worse offer. But according to the Board of Directors, the competence of TEDD is now spread to all winners. These offers will not be replaced accordingly. They say that it is rare for such a well-functioning, award-winning and requested action to be taken quickly, without consultation or other investigations. The head of Health South-East has said that patients are not believed to suffer when TEDD is shut down. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Minister of Health believe and hope this too, or is she absolutely sure that the offer will be the same, or rather better – as intended? And then when will this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e233	This is a patient group that won't disappear, and then we also have to have a good offer, and when you make changes, you can't give a worse offer; it has to get better. There have been changes in many areas of drug and mental health, not least the fact that there has been much shift from long-term hospital stays to more day care and outpatient treatment. That way you've been able to treat more people. This is, of course, something that we will follow up, especially on the basis of a strong need of these patients with double diagnosis, as we know it is difficult, and not least their relatives, who also have it very difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e240	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e243	I also want to follow up on what is known as the Twice Professional Unit for Double Diagnosis at the Winner, also called TEDD. In a reply to the Left Group on 20 December, the Council of State states that ‘TEDD at the Diakon home will continue to offer a good offer to patients with double diagnosis’. But in the draft Area Plan for Mental Health in Oslo, it says, and I quote: ‘Diaconian Hospital has a multidisciplinary dual diagnosis unit that will be closed in the first half of 2012 as a result of changing framework conditions and new income model. [[TEDD]] In addition, there will be no special offer for this patient group today.’ Now 40 people, 40 professionals in a good professional environment, are being told up. How can the Council of State say that the offer continues? Is it the Council of State that has been misinformed, or is it the size that has been misinformed?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e255	This patient group should continue to receive treatment and a good offer. The representative is also aware that there are many changes in the organisation of Oslo University Hospital. The final design, how this should be, I cannot respond to today, but it is quite clear that this group of patients should and must have a good offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e262	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e266	I have a question for the Minister of Health. We've previously heard from India that more and more abortions are female fetuses. A survey from Norway that Indian-Norwegian mothers do the same was a first-page survey in VG two days ago. This is alarming and alarming. The Health Minister said to the VG that it's like a person can't believe it. It is positive that the Minister of Health alerts an increased focus on the issue and says that she will initiate action against gender selection. The debate on the introduction of early ultrasound is important in this context, and the government is about to decide on this matter. What we know for sure is that an early ultrasound study in weeks 11-13 could reveal whether the fetus has Down syndrome. New, modern ultrasonic machines will also be able to detect the sex of the foetus, and a blood test even earlier in pregnancy can determine the child’s sex. Gender-based selection creates enormous resistance, and action will be taken by the Minister of Health. But when it comes to revealing Down's syndrome, with the result that most people will be selected away, the Health Minister goes the other way. Then she will introduce early ultrasound, according to previous statements to the media. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e279	First, I have to say that I disagree with the premise on the question – and in the insinuations – because there are many aspects to this. It must not be that, by offering a legal form of treatment or investigation, one is suspected of wanting to opt out. There's a big difference between knowing and choosing, and I'm very concerned that the most important competence we can give ourselves and our descendants is the ability to make right ethical choices, because we're going to face a technology that challenges us to those degrees in many areas. In the case of sex-selective abortion, it is totally unacceptable and it is prohibited for health professionals to disclose gender before the 12th week of pregnancy. It's precisely because there's no need for gender to be involved in abortion. We see that tests have come that challenge us, and so we have to decide how to deal with it. But the abortion law is there, and we do not have any plans to change it – at least today. I believe that this is very much about attitudes, and it is very important to send a strong signal that girls and boys are equally valuable, is fundamental in Norwegian society. That's the way it's going to be, and we're going to work it out in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e290	We also know this with attitudes created by laws and regulations, and the introduction of some laws and regulations – or perhaps some prohibitions – changes people's attitudes. I'm thinking, for example. on the introduction of safety belt and smoke requirements. Not introducing early ultrasound to everyone will also give a clear view of our society that we do not want selection in the light of, for example. properties, it's Down's syndrome or gender. Would it not be wise, then, to reserve early ultrasound for those who, on a medical basis, actually have a need, and thus also to create clear attitudes on the part of society regarding selection based on characteristics?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e297	Although the Workers' Party has made a decision to offer early ultrasound, the government has not addressed this issue – and will not – until after the conference scheduled for Monday, where we have invited a wide-ranging discussion on this issue. What I think is the most important thing here is not to suspect each other's motives. We have a 38-year-old age limit today for providing early ultrasound and full foetal diagnostics. You could ask yourself why we have it. In this context, I think this is actually a much bigger question: how are we going to deal with a technology that very many people are using, and which maybe very many people are using because it is not as safe and good and safe research as we want it to be, and that you make choices based on failing assumptions and failing information?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e304	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e307	This is about equivalency. Equivalence is the foundation of democracy; equivalency is the basis of the rule of law. That is why it is remarkable to hear the Minister of Health mentioning these issues in such confusing and unclear forms. At one moment there's a big difference between knowing and choosing, at the next moment you're very busy saying that it's forbidden to tell about sex. In the VG on Monday, the Minister for Health said: ‘Sex selective abortion is completely unacceptable.’ Why is abortion based on gender completely unacceptable, while abortion based on chromosome aberration is not? Why is it that sexual abortion is an expression of discrimination against the group concerned, while abortion on the foetuses with Down's syndrome is not an expression of discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e317	In the case of gender-selective abortion — what has been mentioned in the VG in the last few days — this is based on treatment in the Council of Europe. That's why the matter came up. I received a letter from the Norwegian Women's Association and replied to it. In the case of sex-selective abortion, health professionals are not allowed to report sex before the 12th week of pregnancy, and it is so severe that they can be punished with both fines and imprisonment for up to three months if they do. It's a strong signal that there's a fundamental equality between the sexes. So it's like, in the case of abortion law, it's up to the individual woman to choose to have an abortion or not. That's what our law is today, and that's what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e324	Gender Kjos - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e327	Recently, there has been a major focus on early ultrasound. Opponents of early ultrasound have one counter-argument, which is a claim that this is a fight against children with Down's syndrome. A woman who in these days is told that she is carrying a child with Downs, will soon be able to perceive it so that society expects her to commit an abortion. We are simply at risk of ‘talking’ the numbers of abortions. What will the Minister of Health do to prevent such attitudes from dominating the debate and thus putting women in such a situation of pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e332	I see that this can be very easily a very strong pressure, but it happens both ways, because if you want to go to early ultrasound – which very many women do, I think actually almost half goes to an early ultrasound today – you'll be suspected of choosing away. Sometimes it's just to know if it's life, what it's like, etc. – the very basic questions you have when you get pregnant. But I believe that the most important thing we can do is work on both attitudes, actions and offers to those who are different, and who require a little bit more of us as big communities. I am very concerned that no human being should be chosen away because they have a diagnosis or are different. I think it's an incredible quality after the PU reform that everyone, including mentally retarded, is municipal people with municipal freedoms, in line with the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e337	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e341	It's not just the abortion law that applies here. A unanimous increase was also behind the aim of the Biotechnology Act when it was dealt with in Stortinget. The aim of the Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of all. The law shall prevent discrimination on grounds of succession. Experience from Denmark shows that early ultrasound leads to 90 pst. by children with Down syndrome are removed. Over time, there is a danger that we will have a society with less tolerance for people who are different and where there is no room for everyone. If the public health service offers an offer to look for these children, parents may experience it as a pressure to choose them away. My question is whether the State Council believes it is advanced that medical technology contributes to the removal of children who are different?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e350	As I said, I think in the future we're going to face a lot of ethical dilemmas about technology and what technology can do. That's why I want to insist that the most important thing is that we can relate to this. That we can work on being a society with tolerance for all people is actually the most important thing, and that we are able to make wise choices. That would mean that if you, for example, comes with an offer of early ultrasound to everyone – it’s not like today that it’s an obligation to go to ultrasound, but it’s an offer for the individual to do so, and you’re also informed that there can be things, you can get messages that can be difficult to deal with – it’s all, most importantly, that it’s good guides that provide good information. There should be no doubt that there will be room for all people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e355	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e358	Of course, we have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. Now SV has run the Department of Knowledge soon a school run, and when you talk here in the hall, you often talk about the teacher being most important. There are a number of decisions SV and the government has made. One of the main features of these decisions is the implementation of teacher-less reforms. Eight more hours of schooling have been created, electives are introduced, teaching aids have been introduced — but with unskilled people, because you didn't have enough teachers — and you want more physical activity, even without teachers. The move is that we have few qualified teachers. The scoreboard is increasing among them, and although some more applicants, a quarter of Norwegian teachers are not teachers. They have other professions. The central statistical agency says that by 2020 we will lack 18 000 teachers in Norwegian school, without the government taking any new steps to increase teacher training, so that we get an attractive and good teacher training – bet more on continuing education, which means that teachers are able to stand longer in the job, or fight down the school bureaucracy, which all the teachers who are not teachers state as one of the reasons why they do not want to return to the profession. So my question is, when will there be a proposal from the Council of State that really monies when it comes to getting more good teachers and more skilled into Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e369	This is a question that I'm very happy to get, because the core of good school development and a good school offer is that we have competent teachers. I am very pleased that we agree with the parties on a plan for further education that allows us to increase the expected number for this year, given how many municipalities will participate, and I am very concerned that we have now gained a much better reputation for the school. We see that in reputational studies. There are more positive attitudes to the teaching profession, and we have increased the recruitment of teacher training by 50 pst. What we can further focus on is those who are teachers, but who have chosen other professions. Here we have a large reserve, which I want to lure back to school. Then it is important to consider: what is it that they state as the main reason why they have chosen other professions? We've asked that, and we've got an answer to that. There it is very clear what the teachers who have chosen other occupations underline. One is that they feel that the total strain in the profession is too great. The second is that they believe that they have too little time to take care of and follow up on each individual student. It's the feeling of inadequacy, of going home from work every day with a bad conscience, which is a heavy burden. It's a strong desire for smaller classes and fewer students, they want better school management, etc. That is why the proposal for a maximum number of pupils per teacher, on which we have just concluded the consultation and which we are now dealing with, will be a very good argument that the teachers who have chosen other occupations see that the school is an attractive job. What we've been working on in the field of schoolleader education and the principal's school is just such a measure. As far as continuing education is concerned, we also have such a measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e378	It's a little strange, because when the Council of State comes up with its main act to get more skilled, good teachers in Norwegian school, she refers to a proposal on the teaching standard there 50 pst. the consultation note is used to problemattack the difficulty of introducing a standard for teachers when we have so few teachers and where it is pointed out that the proportion of unskilled people is increasing significantly. So it looks like the government council, which has now promised teachers this maximum standard that has been sent to the hearing, doesn't really think it's going to lead to more professionals in school, but it will lead to more unskilled teachers. It is therefore clear in the Council's own consultation note. Now you've promised the teachers that you're going to make that max. My question is, when can you begin to promise the students that they will have qualified teachers in the classes they are going to, and not just more unskilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e385	There is no doubt that it is quite demanding to implement a maximum of students per teacher related to the school or to the municipalities. It has to be done in a smart way, so it doesn't mean that we get more unskilled teachers. However, I am very convinced, after my close contact with the sector and with an incredible number of teachers, that it will help make school a more attractive job. So I'm a little surprised that Trine Skei Grande, who is otherwise so interested in and well-informed about the discussions that go around school, goes away from such a kind of proposal. We're working all the way to recruit better and better qualified teachers. We're going to keep doing that. There is a completely different drive around the recruitment of the teaching profession, the conversion of teacher training, further education, research around this, which helps to raise the status than it has ever been. So the school has a positive reputation that will attract people to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e392	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e395	My question is about senior measures at school. We have had a debate on this before in this Chamber on the basis of a proposal from the Left. Then I remember that the Council of State said that she would give priority to measures already in place. We believe this in the Left is too bad, at least in the light of studies in the Education Association, which shows that it is actually only 12-15 pst. of the teachers who will continue until they reach the age of 67. As a former high school teacher, I know it's a very stressful profession. The Council of State itself said in its previous reply that the total burden is high. Does the Council not see that she too should take greater responsibility for keeping older teachers in school? It's an important competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e402	It is a paradox that I get this question from the Left, because the Left was a government party when the negotiating responsibility for the teachers was transferred from the state to the municipalities. This means that the municipalities are responsible for the employer’s responsibility for the teachers — or for the teachers in high school. They're the ones with the tools. These may be different offers and benefits for older teachers. The nature of the workload and of the working time may be at stake. However, neither in terms of pay nor working time, the state now has any direct opportunity to intervene. So this call must first and foremost go to the school owners, the municipalities and the counties – with the help and effort of the Left. Of course, we can make sure that the school becomes an attractive job by, for example: makes sure to be very critical of time thieves in school. We are now removing 52 000 half-yearly reports related to special education. It's very important. That, along with increasing teacher density, is what I hear most often from the teachers in the question of whether the school is an attractive job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e409	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e413	Constructive as I am, I want to start by reminding the Council of State that there is an examination of teachers by many of the teacher training programmes in the big cities, so it's a simple grip she can take. In Finland, with school policy success, one of the success criteria is well-qualified teachers in a sufficient number. In Finland, they have had five years of teacher training for many decades. That study is very popular, there are at the top three among popular studies in Finland every year. We have also tried five years of teacher training in Norway. There is, in part, a strong review of the Norwegian five-year master's programmes for teacher training. It can be assumed that the introduction of five-year teacher training will make teacher training more popular. The Council of State has previously said that she does not want to make time-consuming introductions, but I wonder if the Council of State will introduce the timing of the introduction of five-year teacher training in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e424	It's very interesting to look at Finland. Finland has hot school food. Finland has nine-year-old and not ten-year-old primary schools. Finland does not have national tests. Finland has a teaching competence and a respect for the teaching profession that has long traditions. Once we have given priority to strengthening teacher education, we have first looked at the quality of the four-year course. It's about recruitment, which was the main question here. So it's very interesting with the teaching places that now offer five-year teacher training. It is, of course, desirable to move in that direction, but I regret to disappoint the representative Tord Lien on the question of the timing of this. The most important thing for us now is to get teacher training to stand up, recruit well for it, and then we have to discuss the next step, namely five years of education, later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e431	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e434	I want to go back to the starting point, where Trine Skei Grande recalled that the ongoing challenge in government policy is that the measures adopted require an increasing number of teachers, and they are not in place. The right, together with several opposition parties, has repeatedly proposed measures to facilitate transition from the rest of the working life and into the teaching profession. There are many skilled professionals who could be good contributors. We have proposed experiments with Teacher 2 scheme, recruitment measures to pick up professionals and flexible implementation models for PPU, to get experienced people into education. Governments have always referred to this as an important and good resource, but government parties have voted in favour of the proposals. Now I wonder what concrete steps the Council of State has taken to reach this group, and what is the result – how many teachers it has brought into school so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e441	There is an obvious potential for other groups of professionals to deal with school, and we have a Lektor 2 scheme, which can be used both in high school and in high school. So a Teacher 2 system doesn't really need to be, because the Lecturer 2 system covers this. It is also about getting people in other professions to take an interest in the school and to participate in offering their workforce to the school. To a very large extent, it is a municipal or county task — and responsibility — to ensure that such arrangements are made to work. I think it's about having good contact with businesses and businesses and educational institutions around them, getting them to work together in such a way that the school becomes an attractive place to be for other professionals. In many places they get it well, and more people can get inspired by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e446	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e449	I noticed that the Council of State did not include in its tribute to Finland that they also have fewer hours – let me just say that. It's added to a teacher's norm. This is something that the Christian People's Party has also supported in its party program, with the reason that it will provide an opportunity for teachers to follow up the individual student. But it is also extremely important that it be fully financed, so that it does not become the municipalities that have to break the government's promises. There are three things that are needed to get enough teachers out: one is to recruit new ones, the other is to keep those who are there, and the third is to get back those who have quit. I get alarming many feedback from newly educated teachers that getting a permanent job is a big problem. Many go on a canoeing session as temporary workers, from school to school, before you are finally dared to bet on. It is a risk that many cannot take at the start-up stage. Does the Council have an overview of how many people go on such canoeing, and is it going to put in place some measures to get into permanent work as teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e458	I also have to remind the representative Dagrun Eriksen that she and her party have been involved in transferring the employer's responsibility to the municipalities, and that is in case they have the overview of this. But there is no unknown problem for me that, while there is a struggle for teachers, it can be difficult for newly educated teachers to get good, stable and stable employment. This is a question I can address, for example. with KS. We have good contact with school development, and I would like to discuss it with them. I just want to say one thing in the end: we don't have to draw a picture that it's a teacher escape from school. There is a positive trade between school and other professions. So the school is an attractive job, and we can make it even more attractive. I will address that issue with the KS when I meet them next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e465	We move on to the next main question, which is from the representative, Bård Hoksrud. It's going to be the last main question of the day, and it would surprise the president if it didn't provide an opportunity for all government councils to be activated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e468	Of course, it is the Minister for Transport that I intend to ask the question to. I could have talked about both Swedish fines and other things – not least about foreign trailers that are running around on the roads for periods of time – but I'm going to stick to the storm Dagmar in the West. It did great damage both to telecommunications and to the mains, and in several places it was so powerful that it actually also went out on large parts of the road network. It is good to see that the state councils cared and the election speed of the West to look at the damage. Yes, even the Prime Minister, who at first would not, found out that it was perhaps natural to travel – if not otherwise to drink coffee with one of the men who had been exposed to the storm. Earlier in 2011, natural forces were also experienced, which were violently deployed. It was especially in Uppland and Hedmark, where floods and races did great damage to people. Also, when the electoral campaign took place, government councillors and prime minister, promised that it would not be on money. Nevertheless, many people felt that it was not the promises that it should not be on money that actually applied. I have seen that the municipality of Oppland has asked the Minister of Transport to clean up and ensure that there is enough money to clean this up. After the storm in the West, the promises have probably not been as clear and clear. It is natural that a county municipality that does not have a surplus of its income, as the state had in 2011 of 115 billion. kr – and in addition, the State has a Sarepta pot in the oil fund of over NOK 3000 billion – is a little more careful to promise to clean up after Hurricane Dagmar. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister of Transport – as one of those in the College of Government holding their hands around the Sarepha pot: the Council of State will ensure that all the extra expenses you have after the storm Dagmar, among others. on the road side, is covered by the State – although large parts of the damaged road network are part of the county responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e477	Let me first say that the government takes both Dagmar and other storms that sweep the country, in the greatest seriousness. That's why we made our visits around the country. This is also true of both the Prime Minister and several Councils of State in the West. It's to listen to different actors who have been frame differently, and it's to see what we can do about enhancements. Not mentioning Hoksrud many themes, but let me say that it is quite obvious that the readiness for both telecommunications and power was too poor. We're going to follow up on that. When it comes to telecommunications, we ordered two reports in the light of the events in Oppland this summer. The first one can make Hoksrud happy to study already on 13 January. The second is the extended period of, until 31 March. Both of them are going to be recording their events this weekend. When it concerns the road network and the network and what was part of the country’s responsibility there in 2011, it was confirmed in the new era. When it comes to the economy of the county and to the possibilities of the municipalities and municipalities to follow up, it was also a theme in the recent ageing of 2011. There was compensation from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. When it comes to what has to be said, I will show it to the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e487	This means that the Minister for Transport will not at least answer if she will now ensure that she cleans up part of the county road network. In the VG yesterday we could read about the family Heggen in Otterdal who for over a year to come must be out of the way. The reason is, of course, that the county needs municipal treatment. I get that. When you don't have money, you have to give priority to the money and how to spend it. So, in addition, the state road service has to spend a long time on both tenders and other things. Will the Council of State ensure that the treatment time for all such things that can take time is cut short – because it is fully possible if there is political will and will to do so – so that both this road and roads are put in place to others who need to get the infrastructure in place as quickly as possible and that it goes as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e494	The representative Hoksrud knows me as an impatient soul who is also busy that things should go fast, but not so fast that there is no defensive treatment. For everything related to planning, we now have our own fast-working group with deadline of 1 April. That's what matters planning in general, and that's because we're going to get the planning process down to different terms. When it comes to refurbishment after a storm, it's quite obvious that there won't be much time before we've looked at all sides. But I think we have to give the municipalities, the municipalities, the state road service and others involved the time to look at what is actually the extent of damage, what are the best solutions – both in the short and longer term – and what must be done by means and by other measures. So we're going to come back to the Storting with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e501	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e504	In 2011 it was election year. In the summer of 2011, both the Council of State and the Prime Minister quickly set out, and there were quick promises that all expenditure would be covered. It is true that it was put out at the end of the age of 2011, but for the Department of Local and Regional Affairs it was partially squeezed out. So now we have a new situation in retrospect, where the same actors have been visiting, and the promises are economical, if they're at all given. Nevertheless, there are large bills in front of the county municipalities to clean up the county road network. Can we now assume that the extractions that come to clear and repair bad highways are taken entirely by the state and by the government that has the overall responsibility for the road network in Norway, no matter who is the owner of the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e511	I don't agree with the description. There were floods and storms in the northernmost states in 2010. It was followed up and confirmed in the fresh-age period. Then there was a new round in 2011, it was followed up and signed out. So it happens that there's disagreement about an account. That's how it will be. Then there is also a dialogue about what to cover. What I'm going to promise now is that this is going to be a follow-up from the government in the same way that it's been followed up before. For example, the County of Sogn and Fjordane have already met with local authorities and with frames at municipal and state level – just to see how we can follow up quickly, and how we can follow up in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e518	Ingerd Schou - until last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e521	The right is concerned that we should be safe in our communities. I really take that as a matter of fact that the Council of State is also. The storm in space Christmas clearly shows that we are vulnerable to the forces of nature. There is also a need for a comprehensive review of the line networks, mobile networks and base stations so that it is possible to get on the telephone to the emergency facilities as well. My ringing question to the Council of State is what the Council of State will actually do with this. I know that the Council of State has both the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness and the Postal and Telecommunications Authority for its help. But this is urgent, and the question is what the Council of State itself thinks is the necessary and rapid and rapid measures, so that this will stand up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e528	The safe community is the government and the centre party occupied by, let there be no doubt about it. Let there be no doubt that the government here follows up what has been covered by a lack of preparedness, and what has been uncovered when it comes to vulnerability. Then I have to say that there is a long-term work among various agencies to take climate change seriously. It is a matter of its own and will be treated, among other things. in the big news coming up about the climate. In the case of mobile networks, base stations, different types of standby, it is managed in the follow-up of two already ordered reports, where the Postal and Telecommunications Authority will deliver one and the DSB and PT the other. Then there will be the further follow-up beyond spring, with which we come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e535	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e547	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Vigdis Giltun to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directing him. Question 2, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who is directly responsible. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e564	This question, from the representative of Vigdis Giltun to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Welfare who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e567	«After many years a blind woman with additional disabilities was granted her wish for owner-occupied housing in a housing community. An unexpected consequence of getting a good housing offer was that she lost her right to user-controlled personal assistance, BPA. It means that she loses the opportunity of an active life that she herself can design. What does the Council of State think that disabled people are losing the right to BPA on this basis, and will the loss of the right to personal assistant in the allocation of owner-occupancy be in line with what the Stortinget has promised in the context of the right-to-holding of BPA?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e579	I am, like Giltun, concerned that people with disabilities should have as active and meaningful a life as possible. The system of user-led personal assistance is an instrument that can contribute to this. I have no reason to go into this particular matter, in addition to encouraging users who do not experience the offer they want, or believe they have a right to complain to the county council. On a general basis, I would like to stress that user involvement is essential in order to obtain a good service offer. It is legal that the provision of services should be organised and implemented as far as possible in cooperation with the user. Great emphasis shall be placed on what the user means. This requires the municipality to comply with the obligation to inform and guide the user about the services offered. There is no specific provision that says that a user loses the right to BPA if he moves into an owner-occupied dwelling. This also applies when moving to a community. The municipality must individually assess each case. The most appropriate means of providing the necessary care services shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. As regards the issue of the future right-holding of BPA, the government is following up the request decision of the Storting. The Ministry is working on a consultation note to be sent out as soon as possible. The government will then come back to Stortinget with proposals when the hearing is summarised.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e592	I think it was important to address this matter, for there are many more. There have been several people moving in housing, although the intention of the test reform was that each should live in a separate home. It will be easy to relate to the services provided in the dwelling. As I see it – when I got this case – the people who used to live at home with their parents, who have had a user-driven personal assistant – i.e. those with mental retardation with additional disabilities, often heavy – also have a great need for leisure activities and for having a user-driven personal assistant with them, for example. if they are going to camp, etc., because they can pick up these hours. It is also a problem when they move out, they have to move across the municipal border to get a well-adapted accommodation, or move to another municipality, for example. in Oslo. Suddenly, all the decisions they've made before are terminated, and they don't know what they're getting. They have to search again and lose, as in this case, the assistant they've been dependent on to have a meaningful life. What does the Council of State really mean about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e601	When it comes to rescanning, it is difficult to decide on it. I know that for some types of services you have to search year after year. But if you're going to lose the right to BPA because you're moving in a community, it's not something that's going to happen automatically, as I also said in my post, because it has to be assessed in each case. Here the user must be included on advice, and his needs and wishes must be taken seriously by the municipality as far as possible. There is no automatic way to lose the offer with BPA because you move into a community. If necessary, it must be assessed on the basis of that angle at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e606	I would also like to refer to a 2006 project with a user-driven personal assistant for mental retardation who showed very positive results in relation to the principle of better user involvement and individualisation of services, which is difficult to obtain in the ordinary service provider. It's an important group to attend to, I mean. The user is more able to design his or her own schedule and has influence over his or her own life, even beyond the time they are in owner-occupied housing. Everyone needs to be at home, and then it's just where the assistant comes in for those who live in housing. It's also a relief for parents, and that's where the assistant is used when they've lived in the parents' room, so that parents don't have to follow the adult children. Will the Council of State take this input further when setting criteria for user-led personal assistant, and encourage municipalities to include these assistants in their housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e613	This is the case in the law now that the municipalities have obligations to have an offer. So Stortinget has made its request decision, which says that the government should: «explained further the economic and administrative consequences and quickly returned to the Storting with a proposal for the rights-building of user-led personal assistance for users with high needs within the current financial framework». That is what we have done, and that report is about to be consulted. Then I also want to point to an interpellation that was just before Christmas, about the issue of precisely the developmentally impaired and their situation, where we – after the interpellation – agreed to go through all the arrangements, gain experience on how the situation has been after the reform, and see how the offers to the developmentally handicapped are. Because it is clear that they have a strong need to get out – many do not get out on their own and must have either support contact or other follow-up. It is now important to gain the knowledge and see what action is to be taken. But in the case of BPA, it's solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e634	This issue has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who is directing it. The question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e641	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘I refer to the reply to the undersigned to a written question No. 523 for 2011–2012 on the movement of potentially infected fish with pancreatic disease, PD, from Tustna and Hitra to the south of Hustadvika, an area that has not previously been diagnosed with PD infection. The Council of State chooses only to look at the basis for the treatment of Ot.prp. No 100 for 2002–2003 on the subject areas of the Food Authority. Can the Council of State explain who takes the financial responsibility if other fish are infected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e650	Fishing health legislation in Norway has been harmonised by the EEA Agreement and based on principles of the World Organisation for Animal Health, OIE. Norwegian authorities are obliged to control serious, rare infectious diseases that do not occur in Europe with culling. For other diseases, the rules are less stringent and there are regions which are free from infection and others where the disease is considered to be established. For serious diseases in Norway, one may use the same principles of control through national provisions. For example, through the EEA Agreement, Norway does not have free status for ILA, infectious salmon anaemia. The reactions in case of detection are regulated by the EEA Agreement but are different from those requiring slaughter. For pancreatic disease, PD, we have national provisions, also based on EEA and OIE principles. The strategy for PD control distinguishes between areas free from the disease and areas where PD is established. The difference between PD-free and PD-infected areas is at Hustadvika. Food surveillance is set to manage the disease in line with the regulations implementing the PD strategy, which in time were designed by authorities and industry in cooperation. The objective is PD-free area north of Hustadvika and to reduce the consequences of the disease south of Hustadvika. The Food Safety Authority reports that since the entry into force of the PD in 2007, 17 sites north of the PD zone have been rehabilitated or decontaminated due to PD or virus detection and that depopulation does not occur within the PD zone. The breeder himself has the financial responsibility for the loss of disease. It falls within the normal risk inherent in the business. Breeders may choose to take out sickness insurance, which may also cover losses due to PD, but normally not losses due to depopulation from the Food Authority — with the exception of the ILA. There is no public compensation scheme for the loss of disease, even when the Food Authority imposes depopulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e661	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. It then refers to the degrees how serious this situation is. The Council of State also refers to the number of plants that have been detected PD infection north of the PD zone – 17 plants, says the Council of State in its response. There are three plants that are now infected and 1.5 million fish are to be moved south of Hustadvika. Although this fish has been vaccinated, the movement may lead to the detection of infection by plants in that area. In Surround, which is one of the municipalities where such a facility is to be located, PD infection has not been detected before and can now be at risk of being introduced. When the Council of State indicates that there is no compensation mechanism as a result of the decision now taken by the Food Authority, this becomes very serious. If a plant is found to be infected and then either has to slaughter or is in a poor situation related to the marketing of its products, yes, this matter becomes very serious. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State support the fact that there is a very bad law in this field, and will she look at the legislation to help these farmers if they are found to be infected in the facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e670	The first thing I want to say is that even though it is not detected in the locality that is mentioned here, i.e. Envy, we are, after all, all within the PD zone. We agree on that. I assume that the reactions and the way we treat the PD in Norway are created in agreement between the industry and the authorities. I have not received any claim or wish to look at it. Then there's a separate discussion related to it with the replacement. There is a long discussion that has been going on. I am of the opinion that the use of state resources for a compensation scheme around the building is not the best use of public funds. What I have said, on the other hand, is that if the industry wants to organise a common system of compensation, based on Community thinking, I would like to join in and discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e677	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I'm a little unsure if we're talking about the same thing. This situation may arise as a result of the decision of the National Food Authority to move already infected fish from the north of Hustadvika to the south of Hustadvika. In the area where one of these plants is to be located, there is one small breeder. He has one concession. So if the plant he owns is infected by the Food Authority's decision to move the infected fish south of Hustadvika, the council here says that he can't calculate compensation. Then it becomes pointless. We are not going to make public funds available in connection with the contamination of plants, but when decisions taken by the Food Safety Authority can lead to infection, must the Council agree that there is a responsibility for the Food Safety Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e682	The representative of Nesvik is uncertain whether we are talking about the same thing – it may be. At least I'm not talking about the one thing. I am speaking in general – simply because the Food Authority is set to manage this legislation. I have read what the Food Authority writes, and took note of it. Firstly, they say that there are fish that are not sick – of course – that need to be moved. I assume that the Food Safety Authority makes the professional assessments, because they are actually set to limit the spread of disease. That they don't take it very seriously, I doubt it. On the other hand, I am absolutely sure they will take it very seriously. At the same time, they are also required to assess the professional soundness of a less invasive measure. That's what they've done here. I would like to attend and discuss compensation schemes in general, but not on the basis of a single case in which a decision has been taken by the Food Safety Authority and they have been given that competence. I have invited the industry to such a discussion, but it has not been of great interest so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e695	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The new fisheries agreement between Norway and Russia signed in October has been very dissatisfied. The Coast Guard believes that the agreement makes it more difficult for them to detect illegal dumping of fish. Now it appears that the Norwegian authorities oppose part of the agreement with Russia only a few months after the signature of the agreement. Why has Norway signed an agreement to then oppose parts of it a few months later, and does the Council of State consider this to strengthen cooperation with Russia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e704	For decades we have been discussing and resolving difficult and demanding issues in cooperation with Russia, a cooperation that brings international recognition. The cooperation has been formalised by the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, which has procedural rules to facilitate the agreement of the parties on effective and responsible arrangements serving our common objective of sustainable management of common stocks. During the last year's meeting in the Joint Commission, a text was formulated which defined what should be considered as the draft fish. The intention was to clarify both for fishermen and for inspectors what can be accepted in the course of fishing with trawl and line. The text referred to on board the vessel and not related to on-board production. The clarifications referred to include, inter alia,: fish which had been destroyed before it entered the vessel or which was impossible to carry. In such cases, there may be good grounds for exempting the general landing obligation. This consideration is also emphasised in the preparatory work of the Marine Resource Act and in the comments of the Economic and Social Committee on the examination of the law by the Stortinge. Following the Commission meeting, both the prosecution authorities and the Coast Guard pointed out that a section of the new text had the potential to make enforcement and evidence in draft cases more difficult. The prosecution authorities pointed out that the wording raises serious points of evidence and could have unintended consequences for the enforcement of existing legislation and draft policies. Therefore, in order to avoid any ambiguity or potential eroding of the draft policy, a policy that Norway has been pursuing since 1987, we chose within the current time limits to use the reservation access relating to one section of the text. Reservation access has been crushed as part of the works of agreement for just such cases. At the same time, we invited new discussions with the Russian fisheries authorities on this, and the understanding of drafts will be the subject of an extraordinary session of the Joint Commission, scheduled for February. I therefore do not believe that this matter has had a negative impact on our cooperation with Russia. Our draft policy stands firm, and we will continue our long-standing, good fisheries cooperation with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e717	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree that there has been a good job over many years to get rid of the illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. Not least the former Minister for Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen put down a considerable amount of work, which I am pleased that this government has continued and that it is a good system. When this matter comes up, you will simply be considered from the warnings both the prosecution authorities and the Coast Guard, based on the text of the agreement that is there. Then I just want to ask the Council of State: why have the Norwegian authorities not had contact with the Coast Guard and prosecution authorities before negotiating and meeting with Russia, so that this situation had been avoided with the Russian fisheries authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e728	When it comes to writing history of everyone who has contributed to the amazing good results we have in the north, I think to the extent we should mention more, but that does not allow the time here today. There are not least very many good officials in Norway and Russia who have done a lot of good work here. As for the way we work in the Joint Commission, this is how the Coast Guard is part of the Commission and participates in all meetings. So this government has been concerned with a lot of other positive things for the northern regions, namely moving the Coast Guard northwards. When this meeting took place, the Coast Guard was very busy and did not participate in that particular session. At the same time, it is not to hide that there was a professionally demanding discussion in the meetings that were. When it came to solving a practical problem for Norwegian and Russian fishermen, this text was tried. It has been seen in retrospect, and it has been very clarified, not least from the prosecution authorities, that this is a text that is more suitable to mislead than to guide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e735	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree that there are many who can get credit for the efforts made to control the fishing that has been in the northern regions – including the civil service, and not least a unanimous and total increase that has always been behind this. If this agreement remains in place and Russia opposes making changes, what solution will the Council of State outline in terms of control in the Barents Sea? Are we talking about increased resources for the Coast Guard? Is there any other way to control it? I would like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State about this very thing, because you're up in a very special situation from the text of the agreement that's there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e742	In view of the many years of good cooperation that we and Russia have in this area, I feel very confident that there will be a constructive meeting in February to discuss this issue. It is not new. It has been brought up, not least by Norwegian fishermen, with me. And as the fishermen say, we have to try to stick our finger in the ground – it's hard when you're at sea! – and at least find practical, good solutions to what is really a very small problem in the big picture. On the other hand, the draft ban remains in place. I work intensively to make it cover larger parts of the world. We have now succeeded and agreed with the Danes and the Swedes to introduce the same in Skagerrak, and we are once more second places. I'm basing – with the background of the good experience we have – that these discussions are being conducted very constructively and well in order to find good solutions to this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e749	That was actually the last question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-11.ana.ud1477e761	There is no record. Does any of the two or three representatives present in the Chamber request the floor before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
