ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e43	The representative of Øyvind Waksdal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, applied for sick leave from 22 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Steinar Reiten, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e66	Steinar Reiten is present and will take the seat. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e71	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose representatives on the coordination of the laws of the cultural sector and the clarification of artistic freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e90	In the proposal for a representative, the representative Trine Skei Grande proposes that the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy provide for the Prime Minister to take part at least once a month in the oral question procedure, unless there is any special consideration. For information, the Prime Minister has participated in six out of 23 oral Questionnaires. The Presidency decided on 10 May this year to appoint a working group of representatives of all party groups on the Stortinget to assess and, where appropriate, to propose a substantive review of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure. I quote from the mandate of the working group: «The representative proposal 84 S from Trine Skei Grande is assumed to be assessed by the working group. [[2011-2012]] Furthermore, the working group is free to discuss and submit proposals for substantive amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The working group must submit its opinion to the Presidentship of Storting by 1 March 2013 at the latest.’.» The Presidency has thereby ensured that the draft representative is thoroughly examined and assessed in the context of other provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The size will thus be able to decide on the material content of the proposal for a representative when dealing with the position of the working group. This is the background for the Presidency to propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e108	The left is satisfied with the procedure on which the presidency has taken place. We're not going to re-examine our proposal for voting here. I'm satisfied with the process it's been added to. I notice that the Prime Minister has been here once a month since we promoted that proposal, so it is possible that the Prime Minister's office has noticed the proposal as well. I would just like to make a brief comment on this: we began to compare ourselves with other parliaments, for example. the British, where the Prime Minister is once a week answering questions, and we believe that we do not have a more busy prime minister than the British. We also believe that we have some other European political traditions, where the questioning institute is very important, and where the questioning institute needs to be strengthened. I hope the presidency looks at the whole spectrum, not just the participation, but also whether we can put in other mechanisms to strengthen the question institute in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e117	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e131	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e142	It is a special day for Culture-Norway when the Committee today deals with the magnificence message presented by the radiant Council of State Anniken Huitfeldt, which is a new step in the construction of Culture-Norway in the continuation of the Cultural Promise, and which will be a decisive roadblock in the great effort that this government has been at the forefront of. Culture, the opportunity to experience culture and to participate in cultural services are essential for individuals, but also for society. I've heard teachers tell us when the cultural school bag is on tour, that some students who strive to succeed in everyday life and succeed in school are not to recognize when they get the opportunity to express themselves through cultural offerings. We have seen students in the cultural school who can discover new aspects of themselves, students who may not experience mastery in life, but who can express themselves through a cultural offer, experience mastery, experience a dignity and experience that they are seen and can learn something from others – that they can communicate their feelings where the words may not extend. We've seen brilliant examples of this, for example. from the Sun, which has a very active cultural school and is a municipality leading by a good example in ensuring that as much as possible is given the opportunity to participate in a cultural offer represented by the School of Culture. This Communication provides for a probationary system in which a free cultural school offer is made to all from the school year 2013. This has to be tested in some municipalities, and the Sun is well on track in this way. We've seen people who, by participating in Youth's Culture Girl, see that this can be the beginning of their careers, and see opportunities to create both a job and a hobby by being able to participate and live on themselves in a cultural offer. We have seen young people who are in the corps and who, through it, experience interaction, receive important training for democracy and see that their contributions matter to others – particularly important contributions. I have seen people who have participated in the Sound of well-being in Namsos – which is a very important measure for people at work where you sing together – and how crucial it is for the climate at work. It is told that now people sing in the halls – people who have not met before meet in the halls, stop and talk. It reduces sick leave in Health Nord-Trøndelag. I've also seen grown men stand and hold each other in their hands as the most natural thing in the world on stage. This is what culture can do to us. We've seen prison inmates in Norwegian prisons who, by participating in cultural services, can express themselves and end up with things they have in them. They can all of a sudden begin to imagine a life outside the walls, start a career within cultural expressions. I've seen people who've been to Theater nonSTOP -- mentally retarded people who didn't have an offer in the past, who now run in a professional theater. We've seen dents that were once troubled, afraid and insecure, through song and music becoming calmer, experiencing dignity and becoming secure. This shows how crucial culture is for individuals and what importance culture can have in a number of important areas of society. Studies show that large consumers of health services are small consumers of cultural services — and vice versa — major consumers of cultural services are small consumers of health services. Therefore, it must be a central political goal in the future to ensure that the massive commitment we have to culture from this government reaches out to the maximum possible extent. Unfortunately, we see indications that there are persistent inequalities in opportunities to participate in the cultural offer. We see that some groups systematically fall outside a range of offers, and therefore it must be a central goal for us to break down those barriers, whether it be economics, social backgrounds, cultural backgrounds or disabilities that prevent people from participating in cultural services. The opposition stands outside most of this and calls it an instrumental cultural policy. For us, this is about better growth, new opportunities, opportunities for work and a better dignity in the care of the elderly. With this we present the radiant attitude of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e161	Culture must be free and independent of political governance. That must be point number. 1st@item: inlistbox The exposure must be a bearer of all cultural manifestations. Culture can mean so much, but often used to describe the human activity of society. It's not a red-green control tool. Artistic distinctiveness and quality must always be taken into account if the artistic freedom of the institutions is to be indispensable. This must also form the basis for the management dialogue. An invitation does not mean the same thing as an order. Can not open message ‘The cultural sector will play an important role in marking and celebrating the 200th anniversary of the Norwegian Constitution in 2014.’» and that in the 2012 letter of award and grant, this is followed up by instructions as regards plans relating to the anniversary of the Constitution. This is important – and that is enough. This is a clear sign of the undue imposition of artistic freedom, which completely violates the principle of arm's length distance. If you accept red-green money, you also accept red-green governance of culture. The self-esteem of culture as the starting point for policy is too little emphasis in the communication, in my view. Instructing cultural life through impositions and demands is not good – or ‘not good’, as many would have said. Strong governance of cultural institutions is premature. While the institutions were supposed to report earlier on issues that were largely independent of artistic activities, i.e. economic governance, audience development, etc., they report today in completely different areas – as we saw in Eastern Europe in the past. Clear leadership in the artistic activities of institutions is a breach of the arm's length distance principle in the relationship between country and institutions. Universal design should also be at the heart of cultural policy and the commitment to it, which I get back to in my article. The notification also sub-communicates that man lives essential parts of his life in a municipality, where cultural activities are carried out daily. Cultural life is practiced not only in Oslo or in the Department or in the Council of Culture, but around the municipalities. There should have been a lot more focus on that in the message. I heard that the representative from the Workers' Party was in the post, but there is very little focus on it in the message. Lack of humility towards the depth and breadth of cultural life makes it easy for culture to become a political arena for the red-green, a political project and an instrument for achieving certain social goals, which I find regrettable. This also brings us closer to a cultural vision in which the state determines what is politically correct cultural expression. Many museums and institutions in the field of stage art see it as their task, among other things. to take care of and further develop central parts of our national cultural heritage, and I think that is very good. The strong leadership of the notification that these programmes and their content should also appeal more strongly to different minorities is regrettable. It leaves a question of whether these leaders also involve reduced attention and priority with regard to the national cultural heritage. In my view, the message should also have included outdoor life to a greater extent, as this is an important part of our cultural heritage. Outdoor life is a traditional arena for very many Nordics, so better conditions for volunteering within this field would have a positive impact. I miss concrete suggestions on how to stimulate local volunteering in the municipalities to contribute, and I would have liked a better explanation of this. It is a major challenge that Norwegian Culture Council support schemes are highly targeted at professional art, and that there is a main focus on publicly funded cultural institutions in Oslo – we see little of that locally. That is why I want to highlight the great need for a stronger effort to create activity through self-employment in the local community. It is gratifying that the interpretation of sign language of theatre performances is being increased. I agree with the Norwegian Deaf League that theatre is best in the first language, but that one does not exclude the other. The cartoon interpreter is the second best way to experience theatre, and this gives the deaf an opportunity to be included with family and friends in the theater – this to bring them all along. The government says it is working with a general Norwegian language law where Norwegian sign languages are to be included. It is disappointing that sign language is not mentioned in the Storing message – i.e. not all should be included. Consulting is very important for people with visual impairments to have full pleasure in film and television. I would ask the government to consider requiring – The size should also be active in that area – that all films produced with public support should have a trace of visual acuity. For those who don't know what this is: Consciousness is to explain with words what's happening on the screen in a movie – to get everyone involved. This is to a large extent done in many countries. There must be a requirement that the broadcasters in Norway should also view their films and their series. Gradually, large-scale productions should be undertaken. It is also important that knowledge is made available to the greatest possible extent — in order to bring it as far as possible. Municipal cultural schools are very important to strengthen. It was also mentioned by the Labour Party representative as a grip that can be done around the municipalities. But it should do more. More people should be recruited and focused on both the amateur field and getting a higher professional level. What we see today is that the cultural schools around the country are so different. Often, the cultural schools reflect the interests of the principals and do not need and want to be around the municipalities. If the government was serious, it should cut the queues. It's over 30,000 waiting in line for a position in the cultural school. I don't think reducing the price of a place in the cultural school alone is the solution, but it's important to get more places and better quality. Much can be done with unnecessary bureaucracy, and good framework conditions should be a matter of course when we know how volunteering works around the municipalities. There it is. The size should take care of and encourage red tape and bring with it as much as possible. It shall not be the case that voluntary teams and organisations have a higher priority in these tasks than in the task they carry out to the greatest extent possible. VAT compensation must be important. With the government's phasing-out plan for VAT compensation and with the government's budget for 2012, it will take 20 years before the target is reached. It's not durable – if you mean anything by what you say. I also want to ask the government in its dialogue with departmental departments to make visible and take care of the important role that non-governmental organisations play for society locally. That is where the key to what we are discussing lies: a comprehensive voluntary policy, a comprehensive policy, which goes across all departments, will provide the ground for an active, growing and diverse voluntary sector in the municipalities. Then I want to promote the proposal to which the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e208	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e211	Right sees life as a continuous journey of formation in which we must have the opportunity to bring forth the best in ourselves for the benefit of the communities of which we are part. Perhaps this is particularly important in our time, as we live in a time of great change. Technological development and globalisation in its wake have given us a world of very rapid change, and the information society is, in its character, geared towards expression from the point of view of cultural life. Language, text, music, living images, in short, all imaginable expressions from all corners of the world, are available to an extent that we have never experienced before. This challenges us in many areas. We have to deal with a rapidly changing society, we have to make rapid and frequent changes at work or in private life, we meet other cultures and religions in close proximity and in great diversity, and we have to deal with a global or at least an international competition in many more areas than before. The perspectives are also many, many more. Today's successful society is one with good cultural competence. Those who, through active life, meet many cultural expressions have developed tolerance and changeability. Those who master language are strong in textual understanding and easily acquire knowledge. In short, they are mastering our increasingly complex and change-oriented society. In this picture, we see the outlines of a class distinction that will no longer be defined solely by money, but which is equally importantly defined by cultural competence. Therefore, the availability of culture and knowledge is at the heart of society’s desire for a society with opportunities for all. The Education, Inclusion and Participation Communication provides important information on groups that often appear to be vulnerable in our society, poverty, immigrants, people with different types of disabilities, who are, on the contrary, exposed from a very different point of view to not having the same access to cultural life as the majority. The right is committed to a cultural policy that takes this into account, which will provide space and opportunities for all. But the Right does not rely on the government alone to define and satisfy all needs. Right-wing policy begins with the individual and respects the individual's own choices and ways. A free cultural life is formed as the sum of all these choices, not as a product of government grant schemes. Right-wing people want a culture that is anchored and shaped by individuals and communities — not top-notch, as a public-defined cultural life will be easy. In the right, a free cultural life develops a greater diversity, becomes more robust, yes, short and well becomes more interesting than a cultural life that addresses the defined areas of action of the state and local authorities and the menu of different offers. Right here lies the differences in the political view of the matter we are discussing here. There is a lot of good in Meldning. St. 10. Individually, there are many measures and interventions that there is no reason to criticise, but the text of the Communication relates to a view of cultural policy based on public provision of a set of offers at all stages of life, from the school bag through the nesting package to the walking stick. Those who do not use this are defined as falling outside cultural life, and the offers to all of us are to be set out continuously in governance dialogue with the ministry. A cultural life under governance dialogue, with money like bait and budget cuts or quotas like whips, in the Right World is not a free cultural life. Unfortunately, through this government's almost two periods at the rudder, the will to govern has increased, from being a small touch with the whip in the years of diversity of the Council of State Giske to becoming a quite massive number of very political reasons to be taken care of. The shirt also begins to feel the urge of many in cultural life, and the protests have begun. The right-hand starting point is clear. We believe that the leaders contained in the letters of allocation and in the governance dialogue in general should be limited to economic-administrative issues, while types such as integration, equality, children and young people in international solidarity, the anniversary of the Constitution in 2014 and the labelling of women's voting rights should be left to cultural life itself and public debate, to govern. Also in a cultural policy based on broad-based mechanisms, guided by a number of target formulations and criteria, there is a significant potential for the exercise of power that there is reason to be aware of. The danger of distressing political justice is great. Well-designed schemes do not always contribute to dynamism and drive in the expression of cultural life. Right-wing wants a policy where the leaders towards cultural life are generally as few as possible, but where we are using targeted instruments, so that we are moving towards the individual vulnerable group with programmes, whether in terms of integration issues, poverty or universal design. In terms of integration, the right is more concerned with the initiatives that come from the immigrant communities themselves, rather than being based on forcing traditional Norwegian institutions to change – although it is also important to take such new attitudes on board. Nordic Black Theatre has long had a theatre school and theatre group where immigrant youth is a clear majority. Why not build on this, just as much as using the multiple of traditional institutions for education and aspirant schemes? Why are the Riks Concerts going to run a festival for international music, when we have the Mela Festival or small festivals that, for example, have emerged from the Center for African Cultural Dissemination? The Council of Culture and I were together in a debate in the Drammen at the Annual Conference of the Council of Culture a few years ago, discussing the question of how to get more immigrants into the institutions. The next day I got the answer. Then I was in the Central Theatre, where the Nordic Black Theatre youth group set up Teachers in Greenland. There was no doubt about who had filled the places – there were people with a completely different color of hair than the Council of Culture and mine. Unfortunately, during this government we have seen a negative development in poverty. This is, of course, a big and complex theme. In the cultural policy context, the Right believes that it is particularly important to think about the children who grow up in unfettered homes. Children from poor families are often loyal to their parents. They don't bother with what costs money, and they often choose activities in silence so as not to compromise their own and their parents' resource weakness. There are several ways into these issues. Firstly, it is important that we also have low-threshold services that are cheap or free of charge in the future. Where at the cultural school, free libraries and the local ballroom are important examples of this. Voluntary cultural life, not least with the Free Fund scheme in its back, also offers very important opportunities here. However, the Right also considers it important that the State allocates funds via Nav to quota or equipment to activate children from families receiving support. The conversation between a client and a case manager in Nav could provide the necessary initiatives for children who otherwise actively opt out of the offers to actually get into them and get the small puff that is needed to get started. Once the cultural school has been paid, it may be easier for parents to take such initiatives than for the child to do so himself. Here it is important to find new arrangements, and there is still a great job to do. The right also believes it is important to strengthen work on universal design. In particular, this is a theme related to old building mass. For example, plant closures are not rarely used for cultural purposes. Here it's often not as much as it's going to be. A small economic push could dramatically increase availability. We have therefore proposed a separate grant scheme in order to achieve this. Drawing language and visual interpretation are also important perspectives that need to be worked on further, where new technology provides great opportunities for us to put into practice. Culture is created where cultures meet. History is full of examples of that. But history is unfortunately also full of examples of intercultural encounters that have led to conflict and oppression. In the globalised society, cultures meet more closely and with more diversity than ever. As humanity, it provides great opportunities for development and progress. But there is also a risk of conflict and violence. Right-wing wants a cultural policy that provides all opportunities for participation, feeling of ownership and mastery. Here is the key to building the trust and loyalty of our society in the future to build on. We have amazing opportunities we can't let go of ourselves. Cultural policy is therefore becoming more important than ever before. I'll take up the suggestions we're on. And we're going to support the proposals presented by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e245	As is possible subsequently to be presented! The representative Olemic Thommess has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e250	Culture makes society richer and gives people better opportunity to develop their creative abilities. Culture contributes to our quality of life and health; it can provide entrepreneurial development and strengthen education. Participation in cultural activities provides a basis for development and learning, is identity-creating and gives a sense of belonging to society. On this very basis, it is important that everyone has real access to cultural experiences. With the cultural promise that we've had, there's no doubt that much has been made possible for greater access to culture, but we see that it hasn't happened the big changes in who actually uses culture. The report ‘Arts and Cultural Education in Norway’, which is part of the National Centre for Art and Culture in its work on the Creative Learning Strategy Plan of the Ministry of Knowledge, shows that there is little participation of children and young people with a cultural background other than Norwegian and children with special needs in artistic and cultural activities. It's referred to as only 2.6 pst. by students in the cultural school with a foreign language background. I am therefore pleased that we have a message that shows that a large-scale investment in inclusion and participation is important. For many years SV has been a driver of ethnic diversity and inclusion in cultural policy, and it is quite well covered in this message. But the time is too long to think about diversity. I'm glad that the concept of diversity is now broader, and that functionality is also a factor mentioned when talking about equal opportunities for participation. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that people with disabilities have the right to participate in cultural life in the same way as others. It is therefore gratifying that the message states that ‘The Government is working on a proposal on the ratification of the Convention’. People with disabilities, developmental impairment and dementia are given priority. I can mention measures such as the interpretation of theatre characters, sound format newspapers, Norwegian film point-of-view, even if this is not put up for consideration other than a study of it, universal design and organisation, and not least that in consultation with the SSB, the government will assess whether functionality can be included as a variable in the cultural use studies. Cultural participation is a class issue, participation is too often determined by social belongings and economics. Providing as much opportunity as possible to experience different forms of art where they live and work is important. Culture at school, the cultural school and the public libraries are good examples. People's libraries stand in a special position as a democratic meeting place in the community and have many and good opportunities to do inclusion work. They are among the most used and best liked public institutions. We have 13,876 loans per year in our libraries, almost 25 million loans and over 21 million visits per year. Only the mobile libraries, i.e. buses and boats carrying books, borrowed 600,000 titles in 2010. Libraries are very important cultural institutions and contribute to strengthening and maintaining social and cultural cohesion. Immigrants are among the most industrious users of public libraries. Libraries shall be accessible to the whole population, including those which cannot avail themselves of the ordinary library offer. It's important that we continue the large-scale effort at the public libraries. A culture that is really available meets us where we are in everyday life. And then the school is an important venue for reaching all children and young people. Measures that move culture into school, and the addition of more activities that are now traditionally carried out in the afternoon and evening, into or in connection with everyday school life, can allow more people to become acquainted with and participate in cultural activities — regardless of background. The majority ask the government to consider how to facilitate more participation and social cohesion by introducing more measures into a comprehensive school day. Unfortunately, many children are still excluded from participation in cultural schools. In this context, it is important to stimulate measures that can change this, e.g.: by means of moderation arrangements and free space arrangements. By offering free cultural schools to those who wish to do so in connection with the school day, others will also become familiar with what the cultural school is, and it allows participation from groups that do not currently apply for such offers. Strengthening the cultural school will be an important contribution to increasing inclusion and participation among children and young people. It is therefore important to point out that there is a need for an economic power cap to increase the number of student places. There are a number of good actions in the main message. I'd like to be in everybody's room, but I'm finally just going to highlight the positive thing about the fact that culture in prison has also got its place in the message. Cultural activities shall be part of everyday life in prison as in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e271	Through the Cultural Promises I and II, the Red-Green majority has ensured a historic increase in the cultural sector. The economic promise has given the cultural sector much better framework conditions, which in turn lead to more people taking part in cultural life, and it allows cultural life to develop. However, such an increase also obliges to work for better distribution of funds both socially and geographically. We see, as many people have noticed, that there are persistent inequalities in how we use culture and participate in voluntary cultural life, and we see that the main patterns that we've had in the last 20 years are quite unchanged. There is a clear link in terms of geography, level of education, work and income. Nord-Trøndelag County has been working systematically for many years through regional cultural and health projects to strengthen cultural participation among groups that otherwise do not participate. Preliminary results from the HUNT 3 study also show links between cultural participation and health at population level. Development work in regional cultural and health projects also shows that a person can improve people’s everyday lives by offering them some meaningful cultural activities. This shows just how important this message is and how important the starting point of the message is. The government also emphasises strengthening the framework conditions for the voluntary sector, which will benefit the entire voluntary sector. It is then important to follow up on the actions already undertaken, but also to look further at the other measures needed. In addition, more attention should be paid to how to bring together groups that are not currently participating in the more traditional organisational life. We see the importance of meeting places that also focus on low threshold, and on how to integrate groups that otherwise do not find their place here. Voluntary actors and local involvement contribute to growth and development and reach very many. Therefore, it is very important that these actors have good framework conditions. The government has done a lot for volunteering. The VAT compensation is one of the arrangements, and the promise is that we're going up to 2.2 stands firm. We're on our way well, but it's important that we be able to run the system completely. So it's important that we be able to continue our work on simplification. The Ministry of Culture has implemented a project to facilitate the cooperation of children’s and youth organisations with the public around a number of grant schemes. It is important to consider whether some of the public requirements actually contribute to raising the threshold for some groups. Ideal actors also play an important role in many welfare areas. The message describes, inter alia: how the Music project in prison and freedom aims to facilitate the transition to life outside prison walls. It is a very good example of how the voluntary sector contributes to important functions in society, and how limited public contributions will provide many times more when the non-profit sector combines them with its resources. It also shows the value that exists in the ideal and the voluntary, and the value that they actually have in themselves. In order for us to have a highly professional cultural life with a high regard for the future, it is important to have a diverse and living cultural life. The interaction between voluntary and professional cultural life is valuable. It ensures more availability, it ensures recruitment, it creates commitment, it reaches more, and we get a terrible lot more for the means you actually invest. Other important actions that bring people together, which create a lot of people together, are volunteer centres as an important meeting place and venue, as well as seeing associations, teams, public and individuals in the context. Then one maybe more people outside the schemes and institutions that are already in place. The message has very offensive objectives and visions to reach more. Now we've escalated financially, we've given cultural life more money. The next step is to get a better social and geographical distribution, both to defend the use of so much money on it, and to give the whole country the same opportunity for growth and development. We need to figure out how to reach those groups and places that today are not getting the same amount of this investment from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e292	Culture was not introduced in Norway with the Ministry of Culture. The culture did not come to Norway and the Norwegian people through the Norwegian Cultural Council. Nor did culture develop into a part of the Norwegian people’s society through the welfare state. Culture is part of life. Culture is part of the lives of every individual human being, and it's a part of life between people, a natural part of the community. That's the way it is, and it's always been. The attitude we are discussing today from the Family and Culture Committee shows a clear distinction in this room between the reality of the opposition, which I have just referred to, and the socialist understanding of what culture is. In socialist understanding, culture and cultural life are primarily a public matter – it is a political project. This also gives you the strange understanding of who's outside, and who's inside of our society. One cannot understand the message and red-green rhetoric in any other way than that if a Pakistani girl goes to the National Theatre or the Norwegian Opera & Ballet, she is inside, but if she participates in a dance group in her local environment with Pakistani friends and neighbors, she is outside and not part of cultural life. It is useful to look at who uses the cultural services that we support through public budgets. It's useful knowledge, and it's important to facilitate the removal of barriers to participation in the cultural offerings we give money to. There may be physical barriers, lack of visual acuity, sign language or other barriers. Respect for the freedom of culture should be fundamental in our management of cultural policy. The attitude and debate clearly show that there is a distinction between the opposition's respect for the self-esteem of culture and freedom and a socialist thinking in which culture is a tool for its own policy objectives. It is correctly stated that culture should be guided in the direction you want by requiring a change in the programme profile and through a governance dialogue, ensuring that the objectives are achieved and the policy projects implemented within the deadlines set. Although to those degrees the targets of this message have been missed, it is positive that the government is concerned with inclusion and participation in our society. Then it's amazing that you haven't lifted up the tools we actually have, which we're actually sitting on today, which will give children and young people every opportunity to create and express themselves through art and culture. The cultural schools have been added to the government, the ambitions of the cultural promise we have seen nothing more, and when you first present a big message with inclusion and participation, it's a big paradox. I am pleased that the Committee has gathered on the comment on the importance of the alga. Allang is one of the most inclusive things we have, and we have a fantastic untapped potential just in a bet on pluralism in cultural policy. I refer to the Christian People's Party's proposal for a national bet on it and the Krafttak project for song, which should be a start for such a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e307	I would like to begin by making a brief comment on the enthusiastic introduction of the representative Stokkan-Grande. Sometimes things get so enthusiastic that it can almost seem ironic. Or as some of us ladies know, when you meet some ladies with a little bit too many beads, you get a little bit of a clue that they're not real. Of course, it's true that culture, cultural experiences and experiences made by good artists make us grow like humans. It's also true that kids experience mastering in meeting culture. But you don't have to run trial projects with free cultural schools for everyone, because that's what the Left-Rapporteur in West Slider did, when it became part of the SFO in that municipality, and you can just go in and analyse it. It's a type of all-day school that left-wing people can enjoy. What the government parties lose in their eagerness to do the same at the same time is that you don't understand how important both breadth and elite are to create cultural development. It's not like the strength of culture is measured by how many people sing in the passage of the job, or how many people know the Gubben Noah on a piano, sail if it can be fun on a post-game in Trøndelag – I understand that. If you count school corps as latitude, it's very few who play in school corps if you don't have any Ole Edvard Antonsen that can be the elite that kids can reach for. There are very few who think it's funny just to be an amateur if you don't have anybody big to look up to. A good cultural policy is a cultural policy that ensures that the breadth, but also the elite, is there to have something to go for. Therefore, it is important to have a cultural policy that promotes top-notch competence and that also promotes different cultural environments. This is why the Left's thinking on cultural diversity is much closer to what the Right says, when it is said that it is important rather to support the institutions that are created by their own drive to promote cultural diversity, for example. within the multicultural field. That is why the Left has strengthened the multicultural institutions in all budgets over the last seven years, because we think it is more important, more effective and more correct than making letters of allocation, which oblige other institutions to do what someone wants to do to get money to do. What's a little daunting to me is that you just have a useful concept about culture. The self-esteem of culture disappears in the government's desire for benefits – the wish that it has a purpose. I think good culture can be very useless. It can sometimes be completely meaningless, but still be amazing culture. That's why it's important for a society not to have a useful concept, which we see other regimes put on, and which I had hoped today's government wouldn't interfere. We are promoting two proposals today. We also support proposal No. 1, which lies in the matter, and which I think is fundamentally logical. First, proposal No. 4: Here you create a message with cohesion and integration as your main goal, and then you forget the library – which is perhaps the arena of all who work best precisely in terms of cohesion and integration. That is why the Left is promoting proposal No. 4, on how to develop and renew the library as a concept in relation to exactly the two factors. Then we believe – in the same way as the Document 8 we have promoted here today – that the way in which government now allocates funds undermines artistic freedom. It undermines the ability of the art institutions to also oppose power. The production of culture is not like producing a hospital service or the number of meters of road, because culture and art are expressions. There are opinions that apply in art and culture. That's why freedom of expression is as strongly protected here as it should have been in our Constitution, but this government is undermining it. I'm finally taking up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e329	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e332	Eight years ago, the red-green initiative for the cultural promise took place in this room. This has meant that Norwegian cultural life has never been more free than now. 80 pst. increasing cultural budgets has given greater artistic freedom. It has given more diversity. It has given institutions and cultural life far more opportunity to focus on what they themselves want to prioritise. One of the sources of inspiration for the Norwegian cultural promise was the French Minister of Culture in the 1980s and 1990s, Jack Lang. He contributed to the growth of French cultural budgets, and he also said that culture is a formidable tool for shaping a society that is creative, open, free and entrepreneurial. Culture is a force when it is widely distributed, i.e. when it spreads to the best possible extent, rather than being a privilege for an elite or a limited minority. And here we are separated, the right-hand side and the left-hand side, or as Hope says so clearly in this hall, the opposition on one side and the government parties on the other. Because I think it's not like it's a national theater and an opera for the majority, and then the minority people can run their side. I think this is an opera that should be for everyone. When the National Theatre was built, the director of the theatre was occupied with, at the beginning, for approx. 100 years ago, to set up "Young people". It was one of the biggest audience successes ever, that was to show social differences in Oslo, and that brought a completely different audience to the National Theatre. The National Theatre that time wasn't just supposed to be for the elite, it was supposed to be for everyone. It was also the idea behind the establishment of the Norwegian Theatre, which was to help the peasant students, those who spoke dialect, also had a scene in Oslo City. It is also the Norwegian Theatre that is now at the forefront of the range of institutions that want to be a scene for the new Norway, where the new voices are to be released. If you're not interested in inclusion in cultural life, you can just say that yes, it's biased, it gets to be, I don't care. But art is a strong voice in society, and if these voices are to be given only to those who are already strong, I believe that we are not getting important voices in our time, important diversity perspectives in our time, and, the most important, critical voices in our cultural policy discussion. That's why I'm concerned about how culture is spread. Of course, it is absolutely fundamental in Norwegian cultural policy that artistic freedom is fundamental. But it's not like it's the red-green ones that have invented the letters of assignment. I am sitting with a pile of letters of assignment here, from the time that Valgerd Svarstad Haugland was Minister of Culture, and there are a number of prerequisites, among others. I can read out something about Trondheim Symphony Orchestras, where it was supposed that there would be cooperation across artistic genres and geographical areas. It is also a pre-condition laid down in the letter of grant earlier. There seems to be quite a general welcome in this room that the geographical distribution of culture is an important and correct objective. That's why we've had the Riksteatret. We've had the Riksconcerts in the past. Now we've set up a different model, but we've helped to make culture go all over Norway. But when we talk about the minority population, yeah, then it's suddenly become an instrument. In Oslo today, one third of children have a minority background. I believe that they should also be included in cultural life. That's why I'm concerned with the cultural school bag, which gives cultural experiences to children and young people, the cultural walking stick, the cultural nesting pack, which we've now established, aspiring arrangements, new ways to film, so that we can get new votes up. I believe that the cultural debate and the artistic freedom will be much more interesting if all voices are not available, and not if culture is just something to be reserved for those who already have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e354	The councils read old letters of assignment and said that it always was, and we're going to keep doing that. But it's possible to change it, if you want. I've read about the worker partyman Terje Lyngstad, at Sogn and Fjordane Theatre, in the class struggle, and he says, ‘What should we choose? Rause appropriations and clear messages about what to do, or less money and more freedom [[...]] What are we going to do? says the worker partyman Terje Lyngstad. What does the council say to him, when he makes these statements? Does the Council of State continue to read old letters of assignment written by former ministers of culture, or does it want to think again and look ahead and develop culture, as the worker partyman Terje Lyngstad wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e364	First of all, I would like to warn against a government in which the Advance Party will have more influence than ever. I experience in this Chamber that the Left and Christian People's Party has stopped discussing cultural policy with the party Progress Party. It is a danger sign, given the freedom that cultural life must have. Secondly, I would say that I disagree. I believe it is an equally legitimate political goal to spread culture to the minority population as it is to spread it to District Norway. The cultural policy on which this Communication is based is based on the same ideas that were used when Sogn and Fjordane Theatre were established. It's about spreading voices, it's about getting an artistic offer all over Norway. So this is in good Norwegian and European cultural policy tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e371	The representative Ib Thomsen is given an additional line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e374	I hear the council reads old letters from former state councils. I also hear that she has put on the same record and warns against the Party's cultural policy. But I have another question for the Council of State: everyone knows how important sign language interpretation and interpretation are to those who need it, and to those who want to participate in society – a universal design. The government says it is working with a general Norwegian language law where Norwegian sign languages are to be included. But this message will look forward and give room to those I mentioned, who need sign language. What will the Council of State do for them? How will she develop this when it is not mentioned in one word in the message? Is it down-priority from the red-green and government side?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e381	I'll say the opposite. We have previously submitted a language message to Stortinget where this was thoroughly addressed. Many of the measures mentioned in this Communication are aimed precisely at creating a more inclusive cultural life where everyone will have their place. An example of a dilemma between artistic freedom and organization we had in the matter of subtitling Norwegian films. Many film artists were sceptical about this system and said, "We're going to have artistic freedom not to have text on the canvas." Then we said, well, there are large parts of the Norwegian population that can't hear. That is why we introduced changes to the legislation, so that there was more subtitling. I think it's important to create more organisation. That is why I am also proud of the measures in this communication that contribute to Teater Manu getting more money, and that we get more newspapers read out to those who are visually impaired.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e391	I don't think anyone in this room thinks the National Theatre or the Opera should be reserved for the elite. But the Councils of Cultural States later not quite to take the point of the criticism and the debate we have. Here, there is, as a matter of principle, a question as to whether – as the opposition actually believes – these institutions and all other cultural institutions in that country are run by people who are part of a public change of words and who will actually do this all by themselves, or whether the ministry is going to use whips. Now I understand that the Council of State is quite clear that she is going to use whips. I find that interesting, and it also confirms the message, which clearly states that inclusion – to use it as an example – should be part of normal programming. The same section of the Communication emphasises that the Ministry shall have a systematic follow-up to the institutions' work on inclusion and diversity. The scope of the governance dialogue needs to be strengthened. I would like to hear what the Council of State is really adding to this. How does she feel that the governance dialogue will work on this as a starting point in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e400	The governance dialogue should take place as before, and the institutions themselves should set targets in relation to the achievement of their objectives. Much of the basis for this communication we have now presented is based on a resource group that has been made up of representatives of cultural life. They interviewed representatives from cultural institutions and looked at their methods of reaching a wider audience. So the dialogue and the governance results of each institution are measured in relation to, are structured in cooperation with the institutions themselves. But it is not that the point of a letter of assignment is something completely new. If it was the case that the representative Thommess was so fundamental to all kinds of claims in a letter of assignment, he should be opposed to what was written in the letter of assignment, for example. Norwegian Opera in 2005: ‘The Ministry of Culture and the Church encourages cooperation within and across artistic genres and geographical areas.’ These are also requirements for cultural institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e413	It is fascinating that the Minister of Culture draws out letters of assignment from the previous government. It would have been interesting if she could show us that the same protests that we see from today, for example. The Norwegian Theatre and Orchestra Association on those letters of assignment went over the line. If she could have shown us that, the debate would have become more interesting. It is also interesting to note that the Minister of Culture obviously does not understand the difference between setting up theatres in the districts to spread the offer and entering and managing the programme profile of the institutions. So my question to the Minister of Culture is quite simply this: when one is willing to influence the programme profile in a governance dialogue with the institutions, can the Minister of Culture reflect on where the border goes when the state has trampled across the border of freedom and integrity of cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e422	It's quite simple if the Ministry of Culture goes in and dictates what kind of artistic choices an institution should make. It is such that what kind of programme the individual institution sets up is the institution itself that entirely determines. It is also true that former Minister of Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland had far more influence over artistic choices, by far more issues on the cultural budget than it does now, so that artistic freedom is much more fundamental now than it was when the opposition was put in government. I believe that spreading culture to District Norway, spreading it to the whole of society, as was the case in the last century, and spreading it to the minority population is part of the same discussion. This is reflected in the discussion they have in England, Germany and France. This is reflected in a fundamental European cultural tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e427	I understand that the Minister of Culture has read both the letter of assignment from other government councils and foreign newspapers, but it is not possible to get away from the fact that there is now criticism from the management of e.g.. The Norwegian Opera and the regional theatres that you feel over-instructed. I understand that the Minister of Culture believes that she is the one who can come up with all good ideas in terms of cohesion and other opportunities. I understand that if you, for example, had put up for a performance at the National Theatre with Jokke's songs, probably the Minister of Culture could have come up with a little better sail. But the previous Minister of Culture confirmed in line exchange with me that he thought it was right that the Ministry of Culture decided which pieces the National Theatre had on its playing field. It is an entirely honest thing to mean as Minister of Culture – it is of course quite clear. So I'm just wondering about today's Minister of Culture supports the previous Minister of Culture from the Workers' Party that it's all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e434	Now I'm not going to comment on what was going on in a line exchange between the former Minister of Culture and the representative of Skei Grande. But it's well that if you ask Hanne Lamta at the National Theatre if she's ever got advice and hinted at me about what she should put up there, she'll say no. Of course, I have nothing to do with this. This has National Theatre far better overview than what I have. They have an excellent program. They're best placed on their own. But it is the way the director of the Norwegian Opera has reacted to this with the 2014 anniversary. He has a longer article where he's just saying that the Opera is for the people, and he's concerned that the Opera will reach out to a wide audience. So that's not what the representative Skei Grande says, that here the whole cultural life agrees with the opposition. Then we had not had a coherent cultural life that still wanted red-green government in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e441	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e444	When I heard the representative Håbreuke's explanation of the red-green interior and exterior cabinets in cultural life, I almost got backwards. And it's going to be a lot more, when you look at my hair. With respect to reporting, in order to understand his explanation, one might have to belong to the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. I don't understand. One of the very first paragraphs of this message begins with these words: ‘Participation in cultural activities is a way of righting society’. I think this one sentence says the most about how important this message is. Many of us have known on our bodies what it means to stand on the sideline – not to be seen or to have the ugly feeling of not being part of anything. It's not a good feeling. It's almost so I hear Lars Kilevold singing in the song "Sitting here alone, it's been a long time now" etc., etc., until the song ends with "Life is too tight, it can't be healthy". He's so right in that -- it's not healthy, and it's incredibly good health in being with others. Finding its place on different cultural arenas has been a good recipe for creating a good purpose in life. Unfortunately, many people do not have a relationship with the important cultural arenas where identity creation and association with others are shared. Being outside is a challenge, and perhaps it is particularly serious when children and young people fall outside the diversity of offers offered by cultural life. As the Council of State has begun, this red-green government has a lot to be proud of when it comes to investing in culture. The cultural promise I and the Cultural promise II are confirmations of this. We're proud of this effort, but we're not satisfied. Much still needs to be done – and perhaps also a little different. That's why I think it's entirely in the government's place to ask questions about this investment that has led everyone who wants it to have access to cultural experiences. I don't think we can ever answer a clear yes to this and other questions, but we can just get better. It's a motivation in itself. Politically, we can do a lot through appropriations, but that's not enough. One of the many important objectives of this message is that we need to become better team players. The government is also clear that we all, including the cultural sector, need to become clearer and more visible in getting the most involved. Not everyone stands outside of his own free will. A lot of people want to go in. One barrier can be physical availability; another can be a question of economics. The Norwegian Blind Alliance, together with many others, was present during the consultation for this notification. They were very clear that we still have some way to go before we achieve the goal that anyone who wants it can participate in cultural experiences. That's what we're taking, and that's why many of the input they made at the hearing has been included in the message. We who are so lucky to be somewhat functional, don't think that many thousands of people in their everyday lives can't participate in what we take as a matter of course. The government takes this seriously, which is also clear to the message. To mention some examples, support will be given to the publication of newspapers in audio format. Support will also be given to the interpretation of theatres in sign language and to the investigation of a system for the interpretation of Norwegian films — measures that allow access to cultural experiences for many thousands of people. A third obstacle – which is perhaps the most challenging, whether you're functional or disabled – is taking the big step from inactivity to activity. Some just do it. I want to use a statement from Namsos. There they say, "We bear it." And someone who did that was the Blind League's local team in Finnmark, who chose to stand still with a layer of blind and faint in Vardø during the big snowball festival. The layer was given the natural name «Snowblindingan». The County Secretary of Finnmark answered this question as to why they were taking part: ‘The charity takes us in between, but we have some words in the Norwegian Blind League that we're trying to follow, and one of those words is being offensive. We challenge ourselves." They did. Instead of standing outside, they became part of something – in line with all the other layers that participated. Another example of ‘just doing it’ is a meeting with the professional theater from Namsos, Theater NonSTOP, which was also mentioned by the rapporteur in his statement. We met them through their performance with the challenging title "You, me, us, them, outside." You get thoughts after such a theatre experience, and that's also the purpose of culture: a communication between us as the audience and those who are on the stage. The actors on the stage just managed to make us understand that we are all part of a community – not us and them, but we. That's what this message is about, creating an inclusive cultural sector where everyone has equal opportunities to participate and to develop their creative resources. In that perspective, I would like to end with the message in a Statoil advertisement sent on TV: “It’s on the small stages the great dreams are created.” Our task is to help us to have a variety of scenes that take care of our dreams, on stage or among the audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e501	I intend to spend some time with non-governmental organisations in my post. There are organisations across the country. They're the heart of the community. It is those who often create social meeting places, which are important for public health, create great well-being and have an enormous impact on the environment. The SSB has calculated the amount of efforts made by non-governmental organisations and sectors. That's 57. kr annually. So much is the value of voluntary teams and organisations. What is important is that these organisations have a good framework, and not least that the promises made by political groups are followed up. The question of VAT compensation has been a topic. There has been a central theme since the introduction of the service tax in 2001. The discussion of a general exemption from VAT for non-governmental organisations actually has an even longer history. Volunteering has had many support players in this room, especially from the opposition parties. But it was a pleasure when the Soria Moria Declaration announced that a lasting VAT compensation for voluntary organisations would be investigated, and also when the Minister of Culture came after the opposition and launched VAT compensation for voluntary organisations in a letter dated 16 June 2009. What is disappointing is that the promises made by the Minister of Culture have not been followed up. It has created difficult working conditions for voluntary teams and organisations that have had to re-prioritize their budgets. At any rate, the government is far from the promise of full VAT compensation in 2014. Now we are not going to advance the budget debate that is coming in this room, but I am noticing that it is much longer before the government has come to an end to this matter. There are many people who are going to follow this with the arctic eyes, and so are we in the opposition. To the extent that I have a prayer – it is not of a religious nature, but of a political nature – to the Minister of Culture that she does not repeatedly question voluntary laws and organisations with promises that are not followed up in the budget. I expect the Minister of Culture to correct the mistakes she has made in the coming budgets. If not, we shall ensure in the opposition that it will be attached to the Minister of Culture in the forthcoming debates. There are many themes to be considered in the message. Outdoor life is a theme that I see the Minister of Culture hasn't given much space in the message. I want to use a few words in the open air and how important outdoor life is, because there is something that is being done all over Norway, in every municipality and every village. It is an important arena for those who live around the whole of Norway, in the countryside and in the city, and is of great importance to public health as well. But it is therefore a theme that the Minister of Culture has been slipping over and instead spent a lot of time on the large cultural institutions, which are also running out of the big money in the budget. I hope that the Minister of Culture will see a little wider in the future budgets. The Minister of Culture showed in the exchange of lines with the opposition to various letters of allocation. I hope the Minister of Culture will read the letters she receives, including: and that the wishes and promises made by the Minister of Culture are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e520	Already the first Soria Moria declaration to the government of Stoltenberg underlined the importance of diversity, inclusion and multicultural efforts in cultural life. At that time, a vision was formulated, to ‘make the multicultural perspective visible in all fields of cultural life and to help create better meeting places between majority and minority cultures’. There was a vision with two main reasons: by letting go of other voices, other life experiences and other stories, cultural and artistic life will be enriched both in terms of content and in terms of quality. By giving room for diversity in culture, the arenas are created for communication and interaction, which in turn can provide greater mutual knowledge and deeper understanding between people of different cultural backgrounds. Both approaches provide important perspectives on diversity, inclusion and participation. Today’s Norway is characterised by a diversity where both minority and majority cultures of different character form the basis for exciting artistic experiences and cultural activities. The government has invested in several ways to support and further develop this. 2008 was launched as a year of cultural diversity, which had as its starting point that active and living cultural life was to form the basis for the work being started. The year of cultural diversity was broadly anchored, both culturally and geographically. I am pleased with the big message we are debating today. It is based on an important recognition: despite the broad commitment to art and culture in our society, many people do not find out where to create, experience, learn and grow. Culture is said to be an expression all over the place. But the publicly funded cultural life should belong to us all. Then we have to assume that the experience of belonging to the same cultural life is different and is often defined by matters such as education, economics and cultural social and geographical standing. I believe that the Storing Communication provides for good action, which is concrete, addressing some important challenges for inclusion and participation through four areas of activity: inclusion and new voices secure access by building physical and economic barriers to cultural dissemination and dissemination mechanisms inclusion through cooperation I have a certain feeling that the debate in Stortinget affects something that is bigger than we fully understand. I have often thought that in the cultural field some of the big questions will be settled in the future. It's about who should be able to participate and have insight into a field that interprets our lives and gives it an explicit expression through art and cultural activities. With this in mind, it is quite strange that the opposition chooses to have the approach to these important issues that they have. I honestly believe that both the representative, Håbreek, and the representative, Skei Grande, know very well that they come with some constructed contradictions that are not really rooted. You can almost suspect the opposition because you don't have anything special to do with the sea. The insistence that art and culture are used instrumentally or in order to achieve something else is felt to me as a rather – to say – old-fashioned and uninteresting framework of understanding. A life of different points of view in cultural life has taught me that such questions are really quite irrelevant. Artistic voices alternate between different positions; now and then instrumental, standing in a context of something greater than seagoing, sometimes free flying, so that we do not fully know what art will us – until perhaps there has been a time, and we manage to put what we have experienced into a larger context, to something that affects us. I think the opposition makes art and culture a little bit shivering and small. Cultural life and its many actors are not as fragile and anxious as the opposition wants it to. I think art and culture are at their best when they dare to go back with their lives. And then I mean all kinds of impressions and challenges that society is facing – even commitment letters from a cultural ministry such as the United States. on behalf of all of us, the largest and heaviest cultural institutions are asking to participate in creating artistic contributions to celebrate a major national event, such as: The foundation law anniversary is. This government has raised art and cultural life in the first division of politics. I have also followed cultural life closely as a health politician, and I am happy to meet cultural actors who have felt depressed and inhibited by the cultural effort of the government. Report. St. 10 for 2011–2012 will be a brilliant and important contribution further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e559	State Council Huitfeldt made an excellent defense of why there is a need for a big message about culture, inclusion and participation. We have a Minister of Culture in Norway who actually gives a voice to all those who are not getting involved in cultural life today and are experiencing the amazing cultural promise that the red-green government has brought forward. The cultural promise has made us more committed to culture, and, as Mr. Tove Karoline Knutsen said, we have introduced culture into the first division of politics. Cultural life has been vitalized around the country in a way that we've never experienced before. We have increased the cultural budget by 80 pst., from 5mrd. NOK 9 billion. seven years. The whole people will have to share in this cultural promise. That's the ambition of the red-green government. When so much of our Community money is spent on culture, we believe that there should be a government's ambition that culture should reach out to the whole people. That's exactly what the big message about culture, inclusion and participation is about, is that we're going to be even better off than what we've been doing today. We can't be satisfied that we have such a huge commitment to culture, but still see numbers and statistics that show that it's those with high education, those with high incomes and those who live in central parts of the country who have the greatest opportunity to participate in the different cultural activities. It also shows health studies for Nord-Trøndelag. Nord-Trøndelag is a district group, but also there it is that it is those with high income and high education who primarily participate in cultural activities. But it also shows that if you live near a cultural institution, you have a greater opportunity to participate in the activities and offers offered by the cultural institution. So it's important that we constantly take action and make sure that we get an offer and spread it to all the Norwegian people around the country. I feel that the right-hand side has two hands a little bit in terms of cultural policy. I ask questions about what they want. I have spent the time quite carefully going through the setting and looking at what they write. They write pages up and down about what they think is government's instrumental cultural policy. But I'm really just finding two examples of what they don't like. One is the governance dialogue held by the Council of State in the 2012 letters of allocation, where she believes that the national cultural institutions should mark the anniversary of the Constitution. The second thing they think about is what we've done in the past in terms of diversity. I think it is quite remarkable that they believe that cultural life and national institutions should not participate in our constitutional celebration. Our national institutions are built on the fact that they have a social mission, and what is more natural than actually being part of the national events taking place in Norway? The National Theatre, for example, was a very important part of the nation-building. Is it not also natural that the national institutions are an important part of the constitutional marking that we are going to have in 2014? I would have understood the criticism of the opposition if the Council of State ordered the National Theatre to play a piece of Henrik Wergeland on May 17th, 2014. It would have been an interference in the artistic freedom! But that the Minister of Culture expects them to participate in the Constitutional Marking, I do not believe that they are alarming at all. When talking about artistic freedom: I believe that the greatest threat to artistic freedom in Norway is a government shift in 2013, with a dark blue Right- and Advance Party government and with the Left as a supporting party. We know that the Right wants to cut the stage art institutions, that the Progress Party has never tried to appear as a cultural party, and that the Left has recently called for more sponsor-driven culture with gift funding. I don't think any less money or charity from rich uncles is the answer when it comes to increasing artistic freedom. Finally, let me add: if there are any parties here in Stortinget that have tried to control the artistic content of cultural institutions, it is the Advance Party, through the management of children's television. The last experience we've had about this is that the party Right now actually wants the NRK to be required to have more religious services on radio in connection with Easter. The President: The speakers who are given the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e578	I would like to start by saying the following to Trine Skei Grande: She suggests that she might read more books and more foreign newspapers than others, that artistic and cultural policies are only focused on utility. The representative says culture can be fantastic, but meaningless. There's just the difference in how we view this, because if something's amazing, it's far from meaningful. I think maybe this is a little bit of the core here: when we say that the self-esteem of culture is important, it has some ringing effects that it's important to take advantage of. So this message contains a lot of actions, which aren't going to be talked about that much. It is probably because the options are visible both for why the message is good and why it is important in a inclusion perspective. Among other things, there is a desire to do so. further develop measures and strategies to strengthen recruitment in all parts of the cultural sector. One suggests an aspirant scheme in cultural institutions, which can give young talent the opportunity to develop and cultivate their talent, learn how institutions work, and access important contacts and networks. The aim here is to ensure a wider social recruitment for the arts and culture-related profession. I'm a teacher in practical aesthetics, and I'm busy with culture's self-esteem and enormous added value. I am therefore also very pleased that the message looks at teacher training in order to strengthen and improve practical aesthetics in the best possible way. It is important that students gain experience in different forms of cultural expression, as this helps to develop their own identity and to understand people around you. The same applies to kindergartens. So the representative Thomsen says a lot like ‘not good’ – it should have been in quotes, he might be trying to imitate a dialect. What's not good for culture is a billion-dollar cut! And it's interesting to read the opposition's assessment of what's so-called instrumental or not. If a leaf in the setting of Document 8 to strengthen the corps movement in Norway, it is very interesting to see how the Joint Committee is precisely when it comes to recognising the added value and importance of steering parts of the cultural sector in order to achieve some societal goals. I do not mean – as the representative of the Progress Party – that achieving social goals through, for example, is regrettable. European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the I mean, this message is very good. It's an important step in the right direction, because we haven't closed enough to include everyone in the diverse Culture Norway, and the differences between the opposition and the government party may never have been as visible as they are now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e591	The red-green representatives state that they do not understand the issues that are drawn up from the opposition. No, it's basically very understandable. For as long as culture is regarded as a tool in the political toolbox to achieve its own political objectives, it is in fact impossible to understand the issue raised – of culture's freedom, self-value and integrity. I guess that's really easy what we're discussing right now. The Minister of Culture says that the frontier goes beyond the artistic choices of institutions and cultural life. The Minister of Culture has nothing to do with that, she says. The big message says on page 36: ‘It is based on the letters of assignment and endorsement from the Department of Institutions and Organisations that each year reports on how the dimension of the deficit is integrated into the activities of the institutions and organisations. The Ministry suggests that long-term strategies for institutional deficiencies will be developed and that the scale of the deficit should be anchored through staff profile, programme profile and audience work. Institutions shall also do well for activities specifically mentioned in their policy objectives and within the timescales for their implementation.’ I guess it's a little clearer, isn't it? It's about governing artistic choices, and it's a socialist cultural policy. This is an honest matter, but then you have to stand for it. I will use my last minute of speaking time to draw attention to a note written by the government parties, on page 26 of the setting: ‘The majority indicate that activities now taking place in the afternoon and evening, which are sought by children with active and resourceful parents, should be more closely related to school and school time, so that all children can be reached, regardless of background.’ This cannot be understood in any other way than that it is a problem that today we have a voluntary organisation life, a voluntary cultural life, which is going on in private – that people can actually go outside their home door and do what they want in the neighborhood and create activities is a problem. It's a warning to those who want to launch this kind of initiative in the community. If that's another way to think about it, I'd like to clarify it. However, it appears more clearly in the debate that this is a debate on opinion and freedom of expression. It's a debate that's about power, and it's a debate that's about social orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e613	In another debate yesterday, it was claimed from this pulpit by a representative of the Progress Party that Norway is not multicultural. It's both wrong and unhistorical. Norway is today, and has always been, a multicultural country. Even what we regard as entirely Norwegian has roots in other countries. Neither the selburosa nor the bulwark nor, for that matter, the Constitution is only Norwegian. Norway is multicultural, and it is an important premise in cultural policy. There is no contradiction between being open to cultural diversity and being proud of one's own culture. Gandhi said it this way: I do not want my house to have walls on all sides, and that the windows should be blinded. I want every country's culture to blow as free as possible around my house. I don't blow over. In some Oslo schools, 150 languages are spoken, and in many schools, students with a minority background are in majority. But it's just one side of the multicultural. Norwegian food habits are completely different, Norwegian football is different, and we listen to music from around the world. It's been an interesting debate. With the Christian People's Party's family policy as a backstop, it's interesting to hear them talk about the distinction between those who are outside, and those who are inside. With all due respect, standing outside of the Christian People's Party understands a little bit. Because it's something that's instrumental, it's the Christian People's Party's family policy – but I'll leave it. More interesting is the view of the Right. The representatives here warn against public using culture as a tool. They should listen to the party's mayor in Oslo. Stian Berger Røsland launched last year ten points for better integration. He will actively support culture, sport and volunteering because it promotes integration. That's wise, because the question is: Tool for whom? Is it not the individual who, through a good cultural and sporting offer, is better equipped to live and live well in Norwegian society? Is good fellowship a prerequisite for, or limits, the individual's freedom? Of course, a good cultural offer gives greater freedom, not less. Sport and music do not require common language. The youth at the asylum reception at Hvalstad in Asker cannot speak together, but they have one common language: football. Language is said to be the key to integration. That's right. But if you're going to learn, you have to learn someone from time to time, and before the language comes sports and music. Immigrants participate almost as much as other Nordics in organisational life, but not all participate as much. Immigrants include boys more than girls. A 2008 NOVA report showed that 69 pst. by migrant girls between 13 years and 15 years of age did not participate in recreational activities. Studies show that it is not only about economics but also about religion and culture. These are the barriers we have to break. Culture has self-esteem, yes. But culture can also build communities, promote integration and give freedom. There's no difference, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e630	One thing is probably after hearing this debate, and it's that at least we don't agree on the definition of what artistic freedom is. Kåre Simensen quoted a song. It could have been tempting to quote a song by the great artist and musician Bjørn Eidsvåg, that is, that we are on every planet. That's probably exactly what the government parties and the bourgeois parties are, on their own planet in relation to the definition of artistic freedom. On Saturday we could read in Today's Business on the "Huitfeldts Absurd Theater". It's that culture gets a lot of money, but then they're taken away from freedom. Representatives of this government have stood on this pulpit and boasted of the Cultural Promise, and that it has never been granted as much money as under this government. But what the government parties fail to mention is that cultural life has never before had as many directives and letters of award as under this government. Then it can be called governance dialogue, and it can be read out earlier letters of allocation, but culture today has received more directives than they had before. Rause appropriations and clear messages about what they should be used for are more important than cultural experiences – more money, less freedom. It seems that the Council of State does not take on the self-esteem of culture, but must use its power to show how to do this. The Progress Party is taking a great deal of distance from the developments we are now seeing in Norwegian cultural policy, where the state is increasingly using new instruments to gain control of cultural life. The debate ahead is actually not about who is giving more money, and who is the best in the class to give money, but about how free the culture we have is going to be. The progress party may not be of those who spend the most money on culture, but we actually use as much as the state council Trond Giske was honoured a few years ago. But what the Progress Party can be a guarantor of is the culture of children and young people, the voluntary culture, and not least that the cultural life we have today must be free. Governments say in their defense that all cultural institutions have full artistic freedom. The reality is a different one. Some believe that artistic freedom means that the cultural institutions themselves govern their artistic content. For this government, artistic freedom means that cultural institutions themselves decide how they deliver what they have ordered. When societal goals become the most important thing, as Lene Wagslid was in it, it goes without saying that culture is not free. This is the essence of the difference between red-green policy and the bourgeois political side. The most important thing is to give culture freedom, but then we don't talk about the government's definition of the word "freedom". Freedom, as long as we say, is the government's definition of freedom, but the Progress Party wants freedom for culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e647	It may show a little how desperate the government is in its argument when the representative has to misjudge in an inconvenient way when referring to other people's opinions. I didn't talk about that something was pointless, I talked about that it was useless. I think that's a very big difference. That something can be amazing, but useless, I think makes sense. I think maybe the representative should apologize for that misquote. It is a united cultural life that still wants government, said the Council of State. I don't know if you're going to get excited or a little sad, but it's clear that the government parties are starting to move far away from the debate in cultural life that's actually going on. It's almost like a press conference before the last elections, when those in the cultural world who were supposed to support the government had a press conference. It wasn't so much attendance, but everyone in the room was at least promised fat boards within cultural life to meet there. Then we're actually a little bit at the heart of the matter: how much is the counterculture being cultivated? How much is it that someone actually disagrees? I don't think there would have been any of the big institutions, as we also see in the field of vision from this pulpit, if it hadn't been for someone actually in opposition to the state. Hulda Garborg was no champion of state governance of culture – far, far from it. If you think so, you don't know much about what Hulda Garborg stood for. The National Theatre was actually built by private -- it was private that stood on to get it done. In fact, as far as our opera is concerned, someone was willing to sacrifice a lot of their money to have an opera in Norway. There are very few cultural institutions for which the state should have the credit, most of them have been created by initiative, and with drive, from artists – and sometimes to some rich people who have cared about making it grow. Our constitution is based on freedom – and freedom of expression is one of the dearest things we have in the Constitution. Using the anniversary of the Constitution to instruct what our cultural institutions are going to do is a lack of understanding of the Constitution's tradition and its basic way of thinking, namely freedom of expression – and the freedom to be able to express itself by all means, not only reading but also sometimes creating a piece of art that speaks the power directly against, yes, in fact, a constitutional jubilee right against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e658	This debate could have been funny, because basically there are a lot of comical arguments that have come from the opposition, but actually it has been sadest to listen to the opposition today, for the husband of no-for-profit speech you have to look for a long time to find that you have heard from this pulpit. There's been a lot of talk about culture as an instrument. Then I come up with a story from my childhood when I was going to play in the Corps on May 17th. I managed to forget my saxophone. The result was that I had to go in the middle of the corps without an instrument. It was a mess. It was quite visible that one went there without an instrument. And I felt outside, because I didn't feel that I could contribute. That's when you listen to the opposition: they want to be at the party, but they don't have an instrument to play at. The only thing that is agreed in the opposition is that we disagree with the government – we almost hear nothing but that we should not celebrate the anniversary of the Constitution through our cultural institutions – and we probably have to expect great cuts in the cultural sector in the future, when we know that the Progress Party has proposed cuts in the billions. There have been questions about the definition of being outside and inside. It is possible that the opposition representatives in this room have never experienced standing outside, but there are many who experience it today, that they are not allowed to participate in the amazing cultural life we have. It is often that when you don't let in, you establish something of your own. We've seen it in sports, in football. When you don't let into the team, yes, you set up your own layers – and in the Groruddalen we have a number of ethnic teams. We've also seen some examples of it in the cultural sector, that when you don't let go, you set up something of your own. We don't want it like that! After all, we don't want to live in every world we want to live together. That's why it's time for more people to open their doors, so that we get a greater diversity in audiences – and on stage. So, hope the Council of State asks where the limit goes as to what she can do about the intervention against the institutions. I can help Hope with examples of undue pressure. I remember, among other things: that Hopsi Deisi has been mentioned by the representative Ib Thomsen of the Progress Party, and was required to intervene by the Council of State in order to have a special programme on children's television. I remember that the Council of State was challenged by representatives from the Right about the number of religious services in the NRK. These are examples of crossing the border. That is why there is no connection in the opposition's criticism when we talk about governance dialogue as a threat. There is no threat; the great threat to cultural life in the future will be a bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e669	The President would point out that the representative should be a little cautious in describing the posts of co-representatives as ‘empty’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e672	It has been fascinating to hear some of the speeches – especially those of the Workers’ Party – on this issue of instructing institutions. It's quite obvious that they simply don't understand what's the principal problem. It seems to me that it came to light when the councillor Huitfeldt referred to the chronicle of operation Tom Remlov, where he had explained that the Opera should be open to all and be inclusive to all groups. Yeah, that's exactly what's the point. We believe that the leaders of our cultural institutions are so up-to-date that they are actually part of the public vocabulary, that they are part of the movements that are taking place in society, and that they will govern their institutions in line with it, and preferably they will be in the forefront of development. There's something quite different than that the state is going to decide which themes they're actually dealing with. The border goes by then, I have understood in the position sections – preferably the Workers' Party – that you should not go in and choose the piece. No, I've never suspected them either. Obviously, putting a cabal of themes to stay within also represents significant constraints. But what I really took the floor for is a little bit about what the government has done with regard to the priority of these areas that are now being raised, and which we now largely agree with the importance of. So now you've never had as much money in the cultural field as in the last seven years. It's been a formidable raise, and we've supported every single penny, pretty much. But what we see is that the distribution of funds has not really reflected the desire to hit weak groups – or vulnerable groups – for which one wants to do something. For example, if we take the issue of integration, i.e. the immigrant organisations: Immigrant initiatives have had a long way to go and, in fact, they have been difficult to find in the grant instrument we have. There has been a very small entry in the Council of Culture budgets, but otherwise we have seen that it has been difficult to capture those initiatives. Perhaps it would have been a point that when you spend billions at the same time – or at least a billion dollars – on, for example. Scene art, which the representative Gjul was in, could also have used a few hundred thousands more, as the Right has suggested in every budget, or maybe even a few million more dollars, to reach just the groupings that you want to raise, which is a enrichment. And to the representative Gjul, who showed that right-cuts on stage art: she obviously didn't get the whole picture, because we're moving money in stage art, right from the institutions to the free groups, and actually moving over to some of the immigrant initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e681	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e684	In the rotur away from its own politics, Håkon Haugli tried this time to divert attention with a visit to the Christian People's Party's family policy. It may be interesting when we discuss respect for diversity, for one of the main arguments of the red-greens to change family policies and support schemes for families with children has been that immigrants choose wrong. There has been respect for diversity when it has been argued to remove the cash support. So I suspect that Håkon Haugli's main concern in that criticism is what the Christian People's Party believes about the marriage between man and woman. Then I have to remind you that the Workers' Party's Integration Committee, under the direction of Jonas Gahr Støre, was very concerned that it is not good if siblings make babies together. Then they did not propose a ban on making babies, but that they should marry. One could almost suspect him to view marriage as a arrangement between man and woman. It is clear, at least, that the Labour Party and others in the field of family policy have shown that they want to challenge respect for free choice and diversity in many areas and have opinions on one and the other. So maybe also an allocation letter to Norwegian families is the next step we see in the red-green cultural policy, because this is about power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e691	I have two questions before going on to my summary later in the debate. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, said that those who supported the cultural struggle did so with promises of governing positions. I would like to have a statement from this pulpit on who has been promised governing positions, for having signed the provocation of the cultural struggle. Is it Aksel Hennie, is it Åge Alexandersen, is it Bjorn Eidsvåg, is it Linn Schåber, is it Ane Dahl Torp? Who is it that has been promised governing positions because they have signed the provocation of the cultural struggle? Or is it just an unprofessional corruption charge that doesn't belong anywhere in reality? If such claims are made, the representative should be able to justify them from this pulpit. My second question goes to the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The letter of allotment to the Opera reads as follows: ‘Marking of the Basic Law in 2014. The cultural sector will play an important role in marking and celebrating the 200th anniversary of the Norwegian Constitution in 2014 and the beneficiaries of the Ministry of Culture’s grant are expected to start planning projects and events in line with their profile at an early stage. Plans relating to the anniversary of the Constitution must be mentioned in the 2013 budget application. The main committee for the Constitutional Jubilee of the Grand Duchy has developed overall leadership for the anniversary.» Is it so to understand that the opposition parties – which have come ever closer together in this debate – if they win the 2013 elections, will remove this from the Opera Letter of Grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e710	We have challenged the government parties on a number of issues that we believe are missing in this message. What they're responding to is the use of cultural money by the Progress Party, which we've responded to, and then they bring out a familiar fun – which they themselves think is funny – and it's that the Progress Party will run children's television. What the Progress Party has done is that it has taken on an ombudsman role. When 30,000 people on Facebook say it's a shame that the NRK is putting down a children's TV program that appeals to young children, we've taken this up. We haven't taken up the content of children's television, but we've thought the NRK should consider it. Government parties – the red-green ones – have not taken this on board, nor has the Council of State. But fortunately, the NRK has done so. So now there's a kids' TV on TV. They have listened to the Progress Party and to the 30,000 parents out there. I think that's good. State governance, inspired by former Eastern Europe – we have been able to hear about or read between the lines today. But why don't you want to run Norwegian films, which get public support to visualize the films? Why don't we demand this from Norwegian films, so that everyone can enjoy and use public funds? Why don't you want to control it? Why do you not want to control the NRK when it comes to the interpretation of series, use the right of control there? It is also important to be able to make this available as much as possible. The fact that no one should be outside is mentioned by the government parties several times here today. But what we see is that the group that I mentioned now is outside – not included. Then you do not want to use your right of control. That a worker partyman at Sogn and Fjordane Theatre is in a dilemma when he has to ask whether to accept the funds, whether they want to be directed – or vice versa – I understand well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e722	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e725	The Council of State seemed indignant at the fact that some people pointed out that workers' party people have easier access to boards under a workers' party government. This is not, I suppose, a new claim from this pulpit. Nor is there any claim of corruption, nor does the Council of State try to produce it like that. I believe that this is, of course, about the government's free will. I just notice that that's the way it is. What I want to use for the last minute is to say that you're not against diversity, sail if you're for freedom. As I said, the Left has always – in all state budgets – spent more money on all diversity institutions. You're not against culture, whether you're for different sources of funding. We've actually put more into all the cultural budgets than the government has done. We've also been quite consistent. No one has been able to point out any inconsistencies in the governance of cultural life. We are in favour of this freedom on all points. We are also for money for cultural life. But we believe that in art and culture, freedom needs to be cultivated more strongly than in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e734	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e737	Just a few comments. Several have indicated that the Right took up the Easter message in connection with the NRK, and believe that it was management. Then I just want to remember the following: When the NRK poster was processed in Stortinget, we also pointed out at the time that this point was not in the NRK poster. The then Minister of Culture Giske believed that this was an incursion, and he promised that this point would be re-entered in the poster. It hasn't happened. That's the poster we're talking about. At the time, everyone agreed that this would be there. It's striking that you now suddenly don't think it should be there anymore. It can become a theme every once in a while. Then I got a specific question from the Council of State Huitfeldt, whether we believe that the 1814 marking should be out of the letter of assignment. The answer to that is yes. There are other ways to get a great anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e746	This has been a very interesting discussion, not least because it shows that in cultural policy the opposition is on its way to establishing itself as a cultural policy option, as the red-greens did in 2004. At that time we laid the foundation for the cultural promise, with 80 pst. increase in the appropriations for culture. What may have surprised me the most is the representative, Håbreek, who in discussions in the Newspaper spits out words like ‘politically correct’ – as any right-wing politician in the United States. This is very similar to the rhetoric of the Advance Party in the cultural discussion. So I hear you talk. Some people in this room – Right – are probably happy about it, but I notice that the contradictions in the field of cultural policy are about to disappear. Now the shooting is to be directed towards the government parties, you have to assign us many purposes we don't have. You have a cultural policy option. I believe that the last speeches, where the Right and Left talk about the diversity institutions as something they want to strengthen, also show a fundamental disagreement in cultural policy. I believe that the whole of cultural life is part of cultural diversity. Our libraries are diversity institutions for all, both for those who will be better, for those who will be the best, and for those who cannot read very well. The National Theatre, located on the other side of Spiker Soupa, is to be an institution for world-class theatres and for those particularly interested, but also an inclusive arena. I want school students in Oslo to experience coming to the National Theatre as part of their schooling. I want an inclusive cultural life for everyone. The minority population in Norway should not have its culture on its side, and then we are done with it – they should have it too. Cultural diversity is also about meeting together in common cultural arenas. Jack Lang says that culture is an invaluable good, indispensable to our collective life. It is at the same time the bonding agent of society, an invitation to live together, a condition for our freedom, a source of development for individuals and for progress for society. There is hardly a better argument for a more inclusive cultural life, covering all. This is what creates diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e763	The President is in doubt as to whether the expression ‘to spit out’ is parliamentary, but will, on the occasion, allow the doubt to be brought to his attention. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e779	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e793	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e799	The size is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e822	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4, from the left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to guarantee the institutions artistic freedom, so that the institutions are governed by artistic, non-political criteria.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a grant scheme for upgrading public libraries.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e857	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government of the State Budget for 2013 to propose a national initiative for the project ‘Power Take-Off for Songs 2012–2016’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e871	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to decide, and to propose, a scheme of grants for the organisation/universal design of older building masses put into use for cultural purposes.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e902	In the case of cases No. 3 and 4 are the second legal proceedings. There are no proposals for comments on any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-22.ana.ud292e926	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
