ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e114	Honourable co-representatives! Former poacher and vice-leader of the Socialist Left Otto Hauglin is dead, 70 years old. Hauglin was elected to the Socialist Electoral Union of Eastfold from 1973 to 1977. In the first two years he was a member of the Church and Education Committee and then of the Financial Committee. Hauglin was a engaged and reflected person, occupied by justice. In 1975 the Socialist Left Party was formed, and Otto Hauglin was the Vice-Chairman in the early years of the party, from 1977 to 1979. Then different policies were to be brought together, and Hauglin stood for a listening openness and a clear direction, without being divisive. He gave the game a width and openness that a newly started game on the left-hand side needed. Hauglin was safely located between a Christian view of life and a socialist view of human beings. He became controversial when he reserved on the issue of free abortion. But the party supported his right to his own position. Hauglin, however, was not a conservative. He was involved in liberalizing the abortion law and helped shape the law so that it placed greater emphasis on social conditions than before. The new section 55 A of the Working Environment Act forbade employers to ask for life views in case of new employment. Hauglin followed up as principal at the Diakon home in Oslo. He put down a ban on asking about life's views on employment. It cost him a lot of resistance from the most conservative Christian environments in Norway. Hauglin's strength and against the summed up well in the words he chose himself to tell how he got through the resistance: I wrote my sorrows in the sand and shattered joys of marble. After the Diakon home, he used his skills for various church bodies, educational institutions and the health sector. He found that much joy in it. The Greek island of Hydra became important to Hauglin and his wife, Magni. Many friends have been visiting them there. We remember Otto Hauglin for his work and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e143	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e161	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Irene Johansen – for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e172	We are going to consider a proposal from representatives of the Progress Party asking the Government to provide regular reports on the state of energy in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of power, on the availability of different energy technologies, strategies for investing in the development of new energy sources and the status of international energy obligations. The majority of the Committee does not share the views of the proposers and considers that the proposal is not acceptable. I want to argue here for the majority's view and assume that the minority argues for it. Norway is today an energy storm power. It has not come about by itself, but is the result of active political choices. Through a long-term and targeted investment in both oil, gas and renewable energy, Norway has gained an impressive position in energy. The exploitation of our natural resources brings profits and ring-fences to the community. This is a misguided development, based on a comprehensive policy that sees the link between energy policy, industrial policy and the environment. The dialogue on energy policy is central in Norway. How we position ourselves in an energy sector changing are among the most important debates in Norway and a debate that is taking place here in the Chamber, in the Committee, in the fractions, in the parties and, not least, in the electorate. This government has put stones on energy policy. We are there today that much of the basis for the transformation we are about to undergo in the energy sector has been laid. We are now entering a period of large investments both in grids and in new power generation, and we have facilitated the powerful industry through, among other things. the CO2 compensation scheme. Proposalers want their own energy message for Stortinget to discuss energy policy. The majority do not share the view that this is necessary. The development of Norwegian energy policy has been presented in several documents to the Stortinget in recent years and has invited to such debate, among others. at the latest in the budget proposal of the Ministry of Oil and Energy for this year. Important parts of Norwegian energy policy have also been determined by the Stortinget treatment of Melding. St. 14 for 2011-2012 on the deployment of the mains power source, Notify. St. 21 for 2011–2012 Norwegian climate policy and Meld. St. 28 for 2010–2011 on the petroleum activity. For the last seven years, the government has laid the framework for Norwegian energy policy. The red-green majority has, among other things: ensured the public ownership of Norwegian hydropower, which is now threatened by the right parties, which wants to sell the legacy silver to private provided for a significant increase in power generation through the electricity licence market strengthened Enova and entered into a new agreement with Enova on the network development and upgrading of the power grid Energy policy is important. That is why it is also important that we debate energy policy in this Chamber. I understand that we are doing this, both through the energy policy issues presented to the Government’s Stortinget, and through representative proposals. I also allow myself to mention that it is not the first time in this ageing period that we are dealing with a proposal from the opposition on this very topic. I refer you to the consideration of the representative proposal 112 S for 2011-2012, document 8:147 S for 2009-2010 and document 8:24 for 2008-2009, which was all about the corresponding theme. The majority of the Committee does not agree with the proposers in this matter. The government's energy policy is set out in the Government Declarations and in the said Government Communications from this period. I refer you to the letter from the Council of State to the Committee where he writes: ‘The draft representative argues that one of the major challenges in the energy sector is the lack of a comprehensive, robust and long-term policy. The government does not share this assessment. According to the government's assessment, we are now on the right track and much has been done in energy policy. This also means that efforts in the years to come should focus on policy implementation.’ The majority of the Committee shares the government's view on the matter. Debate and discussion on energy policy are important, but I do not feel that a prerequisite for such a debate is a separate energy message. We already have a good, long-term debate on these issues. I consider with this setting as submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e219	Norway is naturally blessed with large energy resources, and it makes us a significant energy nation. We have large resources, among other things. oil, gas, water, wind and bioenergy. By connecting our energy raw materials with knowledge and capital, Norway has become one of the world's leading energy nations. Energy resources have in turn contributed to high value creation, employment and prosperity. The Progress Party wants to strengthen Norway as an energy nation. That is why we have once again promoted the proposal that the government regularly promote a big message about the state of energy in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. Unfortunately, but perhaps not very surprising, the government parties would not support us in this. Perhaps it has to do with the opinion of State Councillor Borten Moe that the ‘energy challenges of this nation’ are ‘solved’ from the Questionnaire on 14 November 2012. For us who do not agree that all the energy challenges in the nation are solved, but want to look forward, an energy message is an important piece. In order to make the best use of our energy resources, there is a need for a comprehensive and long-term energy policy. We believe that the red-green government has not delivered that. If we go back a few years, we see that the Council of State rejected the need for an energy message, while the Council of State of Åslaug Haga, on its side, announced a big message in 2007-2008. Then came State Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen from the Centerpartiet and put Hagas' performance project on the shelf in 2008. So Riis-Johansen turns in 2010 and announces that an energy message is still coming, and there was an energy selection put down to create a NOU. Today's State Council, Borten Moe, received the energy investigation in 2012, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy presents the status of energy policy, at the same time as the State budget, and endorses the energy investigation. It is obvious that the government is divided into energy policies, and it is the energy industry that loses, because of uncertainty, framework conditions and level of investment. It takes approx. 10 years from the initiation of a large energy project until its completion. It is then important that policy objectives, support schemes, governance and legislation are coordinated so as to avoid major delays as a result of an incoherent policy approach. Here the Progress Party believes that the red-greens have failed. The size has been little invited to focus on overall contexts and dimensions such as energy volume, time horizons for changes in consumption and production, costs and technological opportunities. The Progress Party considers that a comprehensive Landfill Communication on the State of Energy is necessary to ensure an ambitious but ground-based approach that can illustrate short-term and long-term power needs and production potential. It is not just the Progress Party that calls for an energy message. Key actors such as the NHO, LO, Energy Norway and several environmental protection organisations have also called for an energy notification. We think it is a pity that the government parties do not share this view. Overall plans showing the relationship between energy, environment, infrastructure, transport, housing and probably several other elements could give the government a plan to govern. Norwegian municipalities are required by Stortinget to make similar municipal plans and long-term budgets, but the government does not have to do so to Stortinget. It seems strange that today's government is refusing to develop an equivalent management tool. On questions to the last two oil and energy ministers, I have been told that there are enough bureaucratic plans, and the work on energy projects now needs to be started. Such developments are likely to facilitate the government on the same schedule as in the road sector, i.e. piecewise and divided.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e236	During this great period, we have debated on several occasions the need for an overall energy message. The Progress Party has also previously put forward proposals for a Landfill Communication on the State of Energy, and in the autumn of 2010 it presented a proposal for a representative, Document 8:26 S for 2010–2011 for a comprehensive energy policy, in which energy supply, climate change and industrial development are seen in the context. The Minister of Oil and Energy then expressed in a letter to the Committee of 8 December 2010 that a separate big message on energy policy was not relevant at that time, but we noted with satisfaction that the same Minister of Oil and Energy only five days later set up the so-called Energy Committee, which was to investigate precisely these issues we called for. The right was satisfied with this grip, and we looked forward to the government presenting an energy message for debate in Stortinget. This notification was also notified several times before these plans were parked in connection with the presentation of the 2013 State Budget, where the Energy Investigation was easily endorsed by the current Minister of Oil and Energy. This believes the Right was unfortunate. Many skilled professionals are behind the Energy Investigation, and this is a good document, which should have been the starting point for a more comprehensive treatment. Why is an own energy message important – or a big message about the state of the kingdom's energy? I will mention two main reasons: Norway is an energy nation. We have great interests, high value creation, many jobs and revenues to the public based on our energy resources. This is not an area that deserves to be treated piecewise and divided, but that needs long-term horizons and visions about how the industry will develop further. The energy field is strongly changing. Our closest neighbours in Europe have energy policies high on the agenda and are already discussing what their policies are going to be by 2050. In Norway, the Government Parties and the Minister for Oil and Energy are leaning back and content with their own policies, and boasting that they are able to look as far as 2020. 2020 is eight years ahead. Eight years are low in energy policy contexts. Energy policy requires long-term time horizons. The right is impatient to debate a comprehensive energy policy. We've been behind the introduction of electricity certificates, perhaps not so strange given that these were originally initiated by the Bondevik II government, but a comprehensive energy message could provide the basis for a better understanding of the market balances. In Norway and the Nordic countries, we are most likely to have a significant surplus of power towards 2020, including: as a result of the electricity licence market. How are we going to use this surplus? How do you dimension the exchange of power with the rest of the world in order to safeguard this situation in parallel with addressing the potential picture of closer integration with Europe? The right considers that in many ways the government is going backwards into the future by reducing the level of ambition of capacity exchange with the continent while at the same time sending a legislative amendment which will exclude private initiatives from improving this capacity. According to State Secretary Ane Hansdatter Kismul's recent speeches in the business community, the government is afraid that the revenue from private cables will not be able to fall to the community and subsidize the central network tariff. I advise the Minister of Oil and Energy to study the hearings that have come to mind in this matter, where, among other things, it is. refers to the fact that, through regulation, some of the profits can be returned to this type of use – regardless of ownership of the cables. In today's business, the group manager of Agder Energia also has an article that mentions the exact same thing. In his letter to the Committee, the Minister for Oil and Energy refers, inter alia, to: for the processing of the online message. Yes, all parties agree that we should strengthen the central network as mentioned in the notification, but once again it is only part of the issue being discussed. The notification does not refer to the underlying network levels, which are also ahead of large investments in the future. The notification did not contain any discussion on how to finance the costs of the large network investments in the future, i.e.: whether it is reasonable to base the current cost allocation or whether we should look at changes. Norwegian power-processing industries, such as Norwegian Forest, Elkem and Hydro, are already warning that they expect large increases in tariffs. The same will apply to households. Households are becoming more energy efficient. It is shown, among others: through a fairly stable level of consumption over many years, despite an increase in the number of inhabitants. How will the individual electricity customer react when the electricity consumption represents only a small proportion of the bill in relation to the network lease, from which the individual cannot make itself more efficient away in the same way? What is the government's response to the need for project management, prioritisation and cost control on the huge investments in the future? Yes, among others. the termination of Statnet User Council, which gave industry and customers an opportunity of transparency and influence. In addition, the answer is a lack of willingness to look at the structure of ownership of the many network carriers at the underlying voltage level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e257	Energy policy has been significantly strengthened under the Red-Green Government. Power grid investment, renewable energy production through green certificates and the strengthening of Enova provide a significant boost for the power sector. We have also secured the hydropower resources of the people's own. What we are about to focus on now is therefore not to make a new big message, but to work for the implementation of the policy outlined in the Report. St. 14 for 2011-12 on the deployment of the mains power source, Notify. St. 21 for 2011–2012 on Norwegian climate policy and Meld. St. 28 for 2010–2011 on the petroleum activity. In addition, there is an extensive status in the development of Norwegian energy policy in St.prp. No 1st@item: The progress party has a front against bureaucracy. On the other hand, there is no party that requires as many investigations as the Progress Party. Investigations place considerable emphasis on administrative resources. Sometimes it is very important to clarify the way forward, but of course we need to be critical and not make groceries when we have had many messages and a policy we are about to implement. That's why the red-green parties say no to the proposal, sail if it might well be appropriate later to make such a message. I would like to call on the Progress Party to focus its debate on politics, not on demands for investigations, which actually only reveal shortcomings in its own policies. They say they want to strengthen Norway as an energy storm power and want to know how. This is the work we are now doing: strengthening Norway as an energy storm power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e268	In recent years, through the red-green government, we have had a massive investment in renewable energy, first through Enova, now through green certificates. We have focused on energy efficiency and energy conversion, also through Enova, we have focused on new requirements for construction, changing technical regulations, warning phase-out of firing based on fossil fuels, one has had a large-scale bet on remote and near heat and has alerted and is running a large-scale online bet. So it's a focus on energy, the production of energy, the transmission of energy and the use of energy for economic and environmental good purposes that we haven't had in any previous government. That's why it's weird that right-wing representatives from the opposition present it from this pulpit as if we're practically not discussing energy policy in this room. That's not correct. Betsinga has been clear. Also in research, the bet has been greater than ever. One has created FMEs in the various areas of investment, one has prioritised raising research on renewable energy at about the same level as petroleum research, and both in research on renewable energy and in petroleum research, the world-class technology development of our country is taking place. We're creating new solutions. This is also climate-correct. Is that what we as a nation can do, it is precisely to get the solutions that are involved in the transition from the fossil to the renewable energy community. We must be proud of this. This is a policy that is willful. This is a red-green policy, but it also supports multiple parties in this room. Then, as I said, it's tried to create the impression that we don't debate the integrity of the energy policy in the Storting, but I think we do. We did it the last time in the budget debate a few days ago. And at least that's how the opposition has all the possibilities here to present an alternative course to today's energy policy. It does not do the opposition. So the only thing that is capable of regrouping – again – is a requirement for the government to produce new papers and documents for this room. Well, that's good, that's good. But it's nine months to the next choice, and maybe it's time for the opposition party to become concrete about what they think should be the solutions to energy policy. What separates that policy from the opposition party's desire from today's policy? What are the opposition's priorities, its solutions and its alternative policy course? We haven't seen that yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e281	Not too long ago, Åslaug Haga, former oil and energy minister, came with a book. She spent a lot of time talking about it being incomprehensible that the government has not been able to make the investment in renewable energy a winner's cause. It made me think back when Åslaug Haga started out as an oil and energy minister: that commitment, that lad, she had to make this field a winner's cause, but also to see the links between oil policy and energy policy and the opportunities that lie in new renewable energy. Then we remember when Åslaug Haga had to go off and Terje Riis-Johansen came. Then he needed to clear the desk, and the energy message was rejected. Then there was a lot of criticism, and he chose to put down a public sample, which later came with the NOU, which I experience that Borten Moe has simply chosen to quit. It's not about the need to get documents to Stortinget that we're going to sit and read, or the bureaucracy is going to produce documents, but it's about seeing the visions. The arguments of Terje Riis-Johansen when the opposition asked for an energy message were that there were some milestones that had to be put in place first. The interesting thing is that when a reader reads the letter of reply from the Council of State and has heard the argument earlier, all the milestones are in place, and therefore there is no need for an energy message. So the arguments that previously meant that we had to wait with an energy message are now being used to ensure that there is no need for an energy message. Until this government took over, there was an energy message in each ageing period. The last energy communication came in 2003. I think it's important for the Stortinget to get such a document, because one sees the whole, one sees the context of energy policy, and the Stortinget must go in and discuss thoroughly on the basis of what the government through an apparatus, a department, presents to the Stortinget. Now they're lifting the discussions out of the Storing and up in government. So it's true as the council writes in the letter, that there have been major cases, that there have been online messages, that there have been petroleum messages, that there have been electrical certificates, etc. That's right, but we're missing the connection. From the Christian People's Party it is important to have such a message. I can agree with Erling Sande that the time now is necessarily not right, because I realize that when the NOU is scolded, it will be difficult to get a message. But for the Christian People's Party, it would have been important to discuss this, precisely because we want to see a greater link between the objectives we have for climate change and the plans adopted for oil policy, and the challenges that lie in environmental protection versus the development of new forces. Then there is also another discussion that I think it would have been very exciting to be able to lift in such a message. That's: what are we going to use the power surplus to, the surplus that we know is going to come? Is the idea that we should only sell it abroad, is not what the Christian People's Party had. We see opportunities and potential to create new jobs in the green industry by the advantage we have through the force, or for example. electrification of certain parts of the socket, as a second moment. I also look through a look-up in the media that there are challenges for the government by seeing the context. When Heidi Sørensen went out and said that electricity certificates were the most regretful political decision she had taken, there were environmental protection challenges and subsidies for the development of new renewable energy. Or when one sees that one has ambitions to lower greenhouse gas emissions, but adopts the development of Norwegian base and an oil tempo that will not be involved in and comply with those decisions. Therefore, one sees that SV is also out there and argues so strongly why we have to reduce the oil speed. There are different decisions that, in my view, conflict with each other, and therefore it may be difficult to have them adopted in a single document. It's easier to present it separately, so it's not as easy to see that there are contradictions between the documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e302	Only a brief left-wing explanation of vote: the left wants an energy message and will vote for the minority's proposal today. Major changes are taking place in the energy market and in the development of a new renewable energy sector. If we are to have ambitions for this sector to replace fossil energy production in the long term, we must have clear goals for how and when, and this must be made visible in a context – as many have been here in the debate – and be the subject of political debate. It gets harder without a message, as Left sees it. The left, as I said, wants an energy message. Although there is likely to be a downturn here today, I am sure that a new government will come back to such a proposal after the election next autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e311	The representative proposal under discussion today argues that one of the major challenges in the energy sector is the lack of a comprehensive, robust and long-term policy. I do not share that assessment. On the contrary, I believe that we have now put in place the important framework conditions for the Norwegian energy sector in the years to come. Now is the time for the implementation and operationalisation of policies already adopted. A short time ago, the government presented an annex to the 2013 budget. The document provides a broad review of the government's energy policy, both in terms of what has been achieved so far, and in terms of the prospects for energy policy in the years to come. So I believe that the government has already presented its view of the state of energy. As set out in this Annex, a number of measures have been implemented by the government during that period. We have a strong escalation in Enova. Extensive action has been taken to improve the conditions of the mains; we will even deal with the concrete follow-up of legislation later today. There has been a significant increase in the effectiveness and effectiveness of concession treatment, which has contributed to a significant increase in the scope of concessions. Overall, government policies have helped to make the Norwegian power system less vulnerable to fluctuations in power generation, and regional power supply has also become less vulnerable. The government has also put in place a number of important measures to help improve the framework for further development in this field. Of course, one of the most important is the establishment of the Norwegian-Swedish certification market, which will ensure 26.4 new TWh with energy into the systems by the end of 2020. A policy has been drawn up through the notification of petroleum and the notification of climate change to facilitate power from land to oil and gas activities, and through the network notification, the government has defined the policy for the development and reinvestment of the central transmission system. An Action Plan for the Renewable Directive has also been presented, setting out how Norway will achieve the target of a renewable share of 67.5 pst. in 2020. I can therefore answer the representatives of Amundsen, Skumsvoll and Grimstad that the state of energy is good. That doesn't mean we have no energy challenges in the years to come. Significant investments both in the transmission system and in production shall be made in the following years. There are significant quantities of concessions still to be granted, both for individual projects in the water and small-scale, to wind, and not least for the transport of lines. It's going to take a lot of both the energy authorities and the energy industry. But the fact that the framework conditions have now been put in a good way, that the industry knows what to do in the years to come, and that healthy investment decisions have been made on the basis of that, is my clear view. The effort must now focus on the successful implementation of the energy policy to shape the energy system of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e330	Now it's the way we're able to do things differently at the same time, some might also think that it's related to sex, but I think it's a little strange that the Council of State and the government are not able to implement both adopted policies and at the same time have some visions and thoughts about the long-term goals of the energy nation Norway. So my question to the Council of State is: What ambitions do the Council of State have on behalf of the energy nation of Norway for the period 2020-2050?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e337	I believe that the decisions we are making now point much further in time than in 2020. The capacity of new renewable energy we are now investing in will, of course, work and contribute to a secure, good and environmentally friendly energy supply system even in the years beyond 2020 – the infrastructure built on networks, on district heating and on energy efficiency improvement as well. I mean with respect to notifying that we have a goal of becoming an increasingly renewable society, a society that will have a secure and good energy supply, a society that facilitates value creation, jobs and development across the country. All of this is not only compatible, but also derived from the concrete decisions, the concrete messages and the concrete discussions we have carried out in the energy policy of the time that has been behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e344	I'm a little unsure whether I think the answer to the council was particularly ambitious. The issue and the industry we are discussing today are among the most important in Norway. Questions that have been raised in the debate today include: how we intend to deal with the surplus that is coming, i.e. how the Council of State will deal with this in terms of promoting industrial development, both within existing power-generating industries and new areas such as data storage, etc. What does the Council of State think of exploiting the picture of our proximity to Europe, in a Europe that discusses how to put its energy chips forward by 2050? What is the role of the Council of State that Norwegian industry and Norwegian energy should play in terms of the large market and the broad picture of Europe's potential? These answers have not been given by the Council of State in any way, and in my mind it means that one is not concerned about using the space of action and has the power to take advantage of this space of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e353	Rather, on the contrary: this government has a very ambitious policy on behalf of Norwegian industry and value creation. It is not only reflected by the concrete energy policy, Norwegian industry will benefit greatly from both improved security of supply, safer access and a much larger supply side than has been the case in the years that have passed. It will provide a good framework for reinvestment and initial investment in Norwegian industry. Then I am absolutely sure that the representative Meling does not want us here in the Storting to adopt concrete industrial projects either. Of course, it's the industry that has to deal with itself. But the framework for such a development seems to me to have been put in a good way. Then we are moving towards a future where the Norwegian energy supply system is becoming increasingly integrated into the energy supply systems around us. It also facilitates the government through a large investment in new capacity for exchanges. There should be no reason to question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e362	Norway has approx. 50 pst. of all hydropower storage in Europe, and we often hear that we can be the green battery. But what's hard for toys and private consumers to understand, and also for a part of the industry, and that they're murmuring about, is that we're going to have more foreign tables. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State be given a message that shows the link between government's ambition for a green battery as a balancing force and the effects it will have on private consumers, not least in terms of pricing – also for industry? This is too hard for a toy to understand. You hear about it, but you have no idea what it will mean to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e369	The government has explained in detail what are the objectives of Norwegian energy policy and, as I said, it is a safe, predictable, reasonable energy supply for its citizens and industry. In addition, we know that foreign tables, or integration into foreign power systems, contribute to security of supply in years when it is dry and cold, and one should not go far back in time until one finds that type of year. And then we've done a good job of explaining what's going on to build foreign tables. These include: support under Norwegian security of supply, and this will of course be an on-going assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e376	First, the representative Meling said, not being allowed to stand here undisputed, because in the VG not long ago it was said that it was not on the grounds of gender that one could handle several things at the same time. Once it's in the VG, it's like that. That is why I am confident that Mr Moe will be able to draw up a communication and implement the policy already adopted. That's why I just want to ask him: what does he think about using the surplus of power that's coming to?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e385	It is in a liberal market economy such as the Norwegian one that neither the government nor the Stortinge determines what any surplus of power should be used for. It should simply be cleared up into the market and go for good purposes – the creation of value and the basis for good life throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e390	The last line then goes to the representative Siri A. Meling, and the president does not overlook the fact that the question can be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e393	I should have done that, but my question goes in a slightly different direction – back to the exchange capacity with the rest of the world. My questions to the Council of State are: Is it true that the Council of State is concerned that the revenue from these inter-national connections should not go to the Community or to the cohesion of the central network tariff and that this is why the government has reduced the level of ambition in terms of the capacity of the development now taking place? Can the Council of State also confirm that he has looked at these hearings that have come and the references made to regulate the regime in a way that allows a person to return some of this surplus, even if it should be private owners who were behind it and that it can be used to subsidise the central network tariff in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e402	Of course, a change in the law related to who is going to build out foreign houses will give Stortinget good and thorough time to discuss with the ministry in the usual way. But I want to refute the claim that we have reduced the level of ambition in terms of foreign relations. You'll see when you do the status, that there's never been anyone who's ever invested so much, neither on network expansion nor on exchange capacity with the rest of the world. By this year at the latest, two agreements have been signed, one with England and one with Germany, and I am sure that the representative Meling is aware of the establishment of new foreign relations with these two countries. In addition, as we speak, we are now building a new cable for Denmark. So we build it it is possible to build properly with those investments, given the underlying networks and that the system will tolerate it. It's not like there's any brakes on it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e410	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President allows himself to recall that so far no alternative proposal has been made for the setting that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e417	The world is facing major challenges in the energy sector, both to sustain energy supply and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Secure access to energy is necessary to ensure continued economic growth and development. This is particularly important at a time when many countries are struggling economically, including in Europe. Recently, the World Economic Forum presented its report that Norway is best positioned to adapt to new global energy structures. According to the organisation, the world needs a new energy architecture to meet a global energy demand that will increase by 25 pst. the next 20 years. The organisation points out that the world needs investments of about $215 billion, which is over 215 000 billion. kr to build a new energy system. But Norway is the country that's best adapted to these changes. Energy policy must therefore be given a greater place in the political debate in Norway for years to come by 2050 than it has today. The representative Erling Sande says that the demand for energy notification comes because the opposition thinks we are not discussing energy policy at all here at Stortinget. Yeah, we're discussing it, we're discussing it piece by piece and divided – fragmented – and we don't see the wholeness in it. When the representative Lars Egeland of SV disagrees with the demand for an energy message, he disagrees with all his friends in the environmental organisations – each one – as well as NHO and LO. Economic growth and development in energy consumption are closely linked, and in the years to come, energy policy will be confronted with important choices, because we see a mixed development for the different energy sources, such as water power, wind power, bioenergy, solar energy, geometric energy, ocean energy, to name some of them. The questions are many, and the challenge in the future is to use the different energy technologies in a holistic way, so that one meets the energy needs of the nation in an environmentally friendly and cost-effective way. The Progress Party believes that the government does not take energy policy sufficiently seriously when one believes that there is no need for an overarching energy message in Norway. An energy message about the state of the kingdom will be an important strategy paper to say something about where we are and where we are going. That is why we are making a point of this today. As mentioned earlier, we are not alone in this requirement – there are many. Finally, some words about the claims of a so-called salt of heirloom. This is a reconstructed debate, a knowledgeless debate, especially when we know that this is just about 12 pst. of the production from companies, because everything else is under public control.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e436	Can I first bring up the proposal, which I am familiar with from the past? In the 2013 budget, the Council of State announces that he will cancel the notified energy notification. The logic used by the state councils was the opposite of that used by Terje Riis-Johansen when he was Minister of Energy. Terje Riis-Johansen thought we had to use the first few years to make important decisions, and then we would end up with an energy message about the way forward. So now that the decisions are taken, the logic is also reversed: because the decisions have been taken, you don't need a discussion about the way forward. That shows why you should have an energy message – just to discuss strategy – because the government is getting worse than anyone else around these positions. They should soon get it fixed on paper and put it before the Stortinget and actually get a decision made. I recall that former energy minister Åslaug Haga recently said at the publication of her book that she did not understand how this government could conduct today's energy policy, in the light of the energy policy she had led. I myself have been on the Energy and Environment Committee for six and a half years, and I was used to having to fight with an energy policy that was far to the left of me. Now I feel that sometimes I struggle with an energy policy that is well on my right. It shows how liberally this government interprets the Soria Moria declaration. Some in this debate have said that the Soria Moria Declaration is their energy message. Yes, well, but the Soria Moria statement was supposed to clean Kårstø in 2009, Soria Moria statement said nothing about cleaning Mongstad. The Soria Moria statement said that green certificates should not have hydropower, but nevertheless it has been. This government has changed a lot of policy in relation to the Soria Moria declaration. This is precisely why this should be addressed in Stortinget so that a decision was actually made on it – not just that it depends on the day-form of the Council of State. We've got a lot of messages, someone has said. Then I think they're getting their dreams back to committees they've been sitting in before, because there's been two big shots that's been talking about energy policy for eight years. One is a notification of the mains power supply submitted last year. The other is a St.meld. No 11 for 2006-2007. It's very resource-friendly, because it's only on two sheets. But it is one of the two big messages that have been submitted by this government. For information, everything in this message has been cancelled by the same government that provided it. For this reason, it is appropriate for a wholesale notification to be adopted and to be kept up-to-date. The representative Sande is unable to see the opposition's alternatives. Let me remind you that in this committee, the opposition parties have jointly promoted 150 representatives. If one does not realise that the opposition has any views on energy and environmental policies, then one should start reading what the opposition actually promotes. Today it is two years, two days and 20 minutes since the last oil and energy minister said you should send an energy message. Then the representative Sande was very satisfied and said that this was a good step into the future, and then the Storting could start discussing the whole of this. Today, a punctuation argues the opposite. It shows why you should have an energy message that is actually adopted in Stortinget – and not just talked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e455	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e458	First, I would like to thank you for the information that the minority proposal was not taken up. Now I'm taking it up. Then I'll go to the representative Lars Egeland. He doesn't want a new message, because there's too many investigations. The thing is that there are many investigations, but there is not one investigation that collects. The size tells the municipalities to make municipal sub-plans for perhaps a municipality of 1000 inhabitants. Then you have to have a general plan that takes into account the different aspects. But when it comes to energy, housing, infrastructure and transport, everything that necessarily belongs together, there is no need for an overall plan. The Progress Party does this only because, according to the Aegean, they have no policy of their own. Well, we have our own policy, but the interaction between the different elements of such a plan is so complex that it's not up to politicians in this room to make proposals that should be what the government rules on. These plans have to come from the government, and that's what we want. The representative Sande says we don't have a plan in the opposition. We have a lot of suggestions, but we don't have an overall plan – nothing either the Progress Party or the Center Party alone is doing. It's too complex, that's what we want. I share the views of the State Council, Mr. Moes, that there have been many investigations, but they have not been collected. You can't draw the lines between the different elements. At least we in the Progress Party can't do that, and then we want help and see if we can discuss it in the Chamber through a message. I think it's similar in all parties, a thing not on the basis that exists today to draw the clear lines for the future. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e469	Since there were no more lines, I need to follow up the answer to the State Councillor Borten Moe, because I challenged him on what he wants to use the power surplus for and get an answer that it will rule the market. It is a good thing that he has that attitude, but I think it is an incredibly passive approach to the matter. Now the state has gone through with electricity certificates and with a heavy subsidisation of the power customers because you have had a desire to expand more power. In any case, it is the Christian People's Party's wish to convert from fossil energy to renewable energy. This is why, for example, projects that can be electrified are important. Therefore, a conversion to electricity on the car will be important, and therefore a greater effort to get more green energy will be important. Therefore, the storage of data traffic, which has also been discussed by others, will be important, etc. The kind of line of thought I want the Council of State to come with, either in writing or in any case, that there are some visions drawn up in that direction – also here in the Chamber. If he does not leave the impression that the goal of spending money on developing more renewable energy is just to pass it on to Europe. It's interesting that it's coming out today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e474	I realized from the representative, Solvik-Olsen, that I must have trotted on a toe, as it is called. There is no lack of joint proposals, the number of joint proposals, from the opposition that is the problem. That's quite right, there's a lot of suggestions. But what are these suggestions in if one goes behind the number? Yes, they consist of asking the government to promote a holistic Norwegian plan for Norwegian wind power development, asking the government to submit a comprehensive plan for Norwegian hydropower deployment, and asking the government to submit a plan for energy efficiency improvement. It's about the only thing that anyone gathers around is getting new government messages so that they can be debated. In this way, one avoids discussing what is important, simply the content of the policy and the content of the option for which the opposition stands. I challenge instead, and I would like to repeat that challenge to Solvik-Olsen and others: present from this chair the content of the policy that will be different if one receives another government from the next fall. What will be the measures, the strategies – as a collective opposition – that differ from the policies of this government if a new government is created?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e481	The representative Skumsvoll made a visit to me. I want to stress that we are now saying no to an energy investigation, of course, is not a fundamental no to an energy investigation. From the Progress Party and the Right, a broad review is requested for the years to come, and we say that now we have a lot of policies that we are about to implement. We also have something hanging in the air that will come. Therefore, the last half of the year of the current period is simply not the time to spend time making an energy investigation. So this is not a fundamental no to an energy investigation, but we have to spend time implementing the policy we are now working on. Then I want to repeat: focus on discussing politics, not on promoting 180 Document 8 proposals on investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e488	It'll be a bit of a parody to listen to some red-green representatives. When one last time this was discussed, for two years, two days and a half an hour – it is now – since, the message from the red-green politicians was exactly the opposite of what it is now. The representative, Rudihagen, who is present, said: ‘state councils in the press release are now notifying that an energy message will be provided.’ [[...]] And he went on to say, ‘This is very good, and thus Stortinget will have a wide opportunity to discuss future policies and strategies in the energy sector.’ The representative Serigstad Valen, the predecessor of today's Aegean, said: ‘I am pleased that the government will meet those who have long wanted an energy message.’ The representative Sande said: ‘And now is a good time to do what the government does, to start work with a comprehensive message and a knowledge acquisition in front of it.’ The previous State Council said: ‘A major communication on energy policy will therefore be promoted, enabling the Storting to discuss precisely these broad lines and our future energy policy.’ What's changed? Yes, we've got new representatives. It's the same government and the same government platform. But now there are new people and then the positions are completely different. It in itself illustrates why this government should have had an energy message that was adopted in this room, so that change of crew does not mean change of policy. That's what an energy message is about. So one thinks it's very important to have a message about the Norwegian library, so the government is presenting it to Stortinget. One has big messages about almost everything in this world – at least in Norway – but precisely the energy policy, which is one of the foundations of our economy, we should not engage in a discussion. It's going to be pretty pointless. It is not because only the opposition sees this need. In 2008, Åslaug Haga promised an energy message on everything – even the oil industry was going into the Energy Communication. In 2010, Terje Riis-Johansen promised. Why is this necessary? Not because we think it's fun with investigations. Representative Egeland: We're not asking for an investigation. The Energy Committee has made the investigation. We want to get the policy statement into this Storting, so we can actually adopt the road choices forward. What we got in the state budget is not a choice document, it's a status update, and that's a big difference. Where do we go from here? How are we going to solve our challenges? We need to discuss that. Why is that important? Well, because this government maintained e.g. the target of 3 TWh wind power for a long, long time. Even in 2009, they promised that 3 TWh wind power in 2010, we would. Then came 2010, and the goal was just put on ice. Now we see the green certificate: it's not the same thing as what's happening in Sweden. There is a lot of evidence that it is more interesting to invest in green energy in Sweden than in Norway. We have received one investment decision in Norway after the adoption of a green certificate – one. This is not good enough in view of the goals we have had. It is very pleasant when the Council of State Ola Borten Moe now boasts that he has the most offensive bet on foreign tables that have ever taken place from Norway, while, as a staging representative, he would cut the cables to the rest of the world. It says why this should have been anchored in Stortinget and not in a single person.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e526	To continue where the representative Solvik-Olsen left off: that is, the Council of State has had a good maturation process on this issue. I asked for the floor because of the representative Sande, who is concerned that the opposition is just asking for new messages and not promoting its own policy. The representative of Solvik-Olsen was very helpful in informing about the 150 proposals from the Energy and Environment Committee since 2005, that very many of them are about energy and not just asking for new messages. We are facing a Christmas holiday – perhaps the representative Sande will take these 150 suggestions home and study them carefully. In these representative proposals, there is a great deal of political action and a lot of policy that the opposition is also behind. The representative Sande will also see this in various settings and comments. We have just dealt with a budget where the opposition stood united about very much. We have submitted several representative proposals as the overall opposition, and we have to deal with them over Christmas. The representative Sande will have ample opportunity to gain insight into the opposition's thoughts about energy policy in the future, as well as what has already been delivered. My second point: to underline, I want to go back to this with a power exchange with the rest of the world. When I say that the government has reduced the level of ambition, it is with the background of Statnet's 2010 network development plan, where they promoted ideas about a capacity expansion of 7 000 MW. This was halved, and I stood on this pulpit and criticized the Council of State for this. It has been slightly adjusted again after the last adjustment to the network development plan, but it is nevertheless far from the initial ambitions to expand capacity by 7000 MW. I believe I have my words in mind when I say that this government has reduced the level of ambition. At the same time, it is true that we are building a lot, fortunately – too late, but it happens – but it is not enough to be able to exploit both the potential picture of these changes that are now taking place in the energy field in Europe, and the opportunities that Norwegian actors will have for closer integration with Europe, as well as using the surplus power for industrial development and creating values based on industrial activity in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e535	As they say, attack is the best defense. I note that the opposition is not entirely responding to the challenge presented by the representative Sande about presenting his own alternative energy policy. When you have ambitions and aim to form a new government from the fall of, maybe both the Storting and the Norwegian people should get to the right what the alternative is in this area. Instead, a call for new releases, new messages, and what the government's policy is, so that's what comes into focus. The representative Rupstad challenges the Council of State on what one will do with the excess of the new energy one looks ahead towards 2020–2030. At the same time, the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen says that the green certificates have not been issued or will trigger a new expansion in Norway. On the contrary, it will be invested in Sweden. Finally, it's too early to judge it. There is a huge increase in treatment capacity for the NVE, so I'm aware that the green certificates will trigger a good deal of new renewable energy – perhaps half of the 27 TWh that one has a common ambition in Norway and Sweden. I also think it would be by making our society much more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. It is possible to replace a lot of fossil energy with new renewable clean energy. It is possible to get an even more electrified car park, although we are ambitious and offensive in that area. It is possible to focus more on the electrification of the socket, and it is not least possible to export the power and to contribute to a good exchange of power towards Europe, which also invests a great deal in wind and solar energy, so that there is a need to balance it against the storage that the water power can provide. Finally, it is possible that instead of exporting electronically, we can export e.g. aluminium. Power-requiring industry in Norway is in need of the new renewable energy, so it does not bother me at all that we will have a great deal of new renewable energy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e547	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e550	The proposal here is about the principle of having an energy message or not, and then it is natural that one discusses that principle. But I'm taking the invitation, and we can promise that there will be an interpellant debate after New Year's on the content of energy policy, and we'll have to discuss it as well. Each case has its agenda. I also think the representative Rudihagen illustrated the need for energy communication, because he talked about everything we can, all that is possible, everything he believes in, but nothing about exactly where the government wants this. We also see all the potentials, but that's why the energy industry is on the fence, because they don't quite know what decisions this government will finally make, just because they have seven and a half years of experience with wings. That's exactly why a few things should be fixed. Let me give you an example: the Ørskog-Fardal power line. Statnett was in Ålesund in May 2006 and said it could be finished in 2011. At the same time, then Minister of Energy Odd Roger Enoxsen went out and said that it's not safe we need it, because we can build gas power plants. As a result, things were exposed and perhaps started now. So it's five to six years off because you don't have the strategy in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e557	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e571	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e580	The amendments submitted to the 2012 State Budget, the use of powers during the petroleum activities and the participation of the EEAS in development projects on Norwegian continental shelf previously dealt with by the Stortinget are supported by the Committee without further comments. However, the part of the proposal dealing with energy efficiency improvement targets in buildings is more discussed by the Committee. The intent of this point is a follow-up to Report. St. 21 for 2011–2012 Norwegian climate policy, where the Stortinget asked the government to come back with a goal of energy efficiency improvement in construction during 2012. It was long unclear what is actually in this proposition in terms of energy efficiency improvement targets in barley. The Government refers to a target of 15 TWh energy efficiency improvement by 2020, but this turns out by more detailed questions to the Council of State and replies to the Committee solely to be an effect the government calculates from the already adopted policy, and that the very objective they consider to present for energy efficiency improvement in buildings is the following – I quote from the Council of State response letter to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 12 December 2012: ‘The government’s overarching and long-term objective is that new buildings should be resilient with a low environmental impact throughout their lifetime. Until 2040, the government will create a basis for thinking for building where materials, consumption of energy and water, the indoor environment, pollution, transport and waste are put into a holistic context. The government's ambition is that the use of energy in buildings per square metre should be significantly lower by 2040 than today.» I believe that the government parties in the debate will explain the majority's position on this matter. The right and the other opposition parties do not see this as a response to Stortingen's order, and I understand that the Council of State chose to present this so-called target in the form of a press release on Friday afternoon. No one can disagree with the ambition that the use of energy in buildings per square metre should be significantly lower by 2040 than today, and we have already adopted a policy that will contribute to this, among other things. through the last climate agreement in Stortinget in the spring of 2012, where we were asked for passive house level in 2015 and almost zero energy level in building from 2020. The right has long called for an energy efficiency improvement target in barley. The most environmentally friendly KWh is the one that is not used, and we have a potential for energy efficiency improvement in Norway. In addition, we are the only EU/EEA co-operation country that has not yet set an energy efficiency improvement target. The focus on energy efficiency has both an environmental and an economic dimension, but it also means something for the emergence of new technologies and smart solutions. By setting an ambitious target for energy efficiency improvement with related instruments, we could challenge Norwegian environments of competence and technology by creating a demanding domestic market for this type of product and solution. Energy efficiency improvement is also about industrial development, jobs and value creation. The government's goal or ambition is not good enough. The right and the other opposition batches want a clear, quantifiable and verifiable measure. We are therefore promoting proposals in line with this. I would also like to point out that the estimated impact of 15 TWh energy saving in construction towards 2020 as a result of already adopted policies also appears strange in view of the fact that trade environments such as the Arnstad Committee and the Low Energy Committee believe 10 TWh in energy efficiency improvement towards 2020 would be ambitious. Various environmental organisations have asked for the target to be set at 8 TWh – while the government therefore believes that we should achieve 15 TWh without any new instruments. Following questions from the Committee, the Council of State has explained how the allocation of these 15 TWh should be for the categories of private and commercial buildings, as well as for new and existing buildings. I must probably allow myself to point out that the expected impact on energy efficiency in existing buildings seems optimistic without new instruments. Among other things, it's only about 1 pst. by the mass of the building being replaced annually. This means that much needs to be taken into account within existing building mass, not least in households. We expected targeted action against this group, both because it represents a large potential, and because it does not have specific incentives within the existing instrument – despite the combined contribution of households and leisure homes to about 2.9 billion. kr to the Energy Fund, which is made available by Enova. A power of 15 TWh is also somewhat soluble as long as the government does not present a reference path against which this effect can be assessed. Therefore, it is proposed that such a reference path be submitted to the Stortinget during the spring of 2013. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that the government has not followed up the climate agreement on setting targets, and will finally address the proposals to which the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e607	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e610	I refer you to the statement from the file manager about the settings and Prop. 33 S for 2012–2013. There's consensus about most of the things that are proposed in the proposition. The issue of objectives, energy efficiency improvement measures in buildings and the follow-up to the Climate Action Communication will be the topic of discussion. This was also done by the case-speaker's post. It's often said that the purest and greenest energy is what we don't use. I mean, it's very true in that. In Norway, we use too much energy, especially for the heating of barley, but also in industry. Energy use for residential and commercial buildings, i.e. lighting, heating and electrical equipment in buildings, is 37 pst. of domestic energy use. Energy use in dwellings and leisure homes is estimated to be 20 pst. That is why I am very pleased that the red-green majority over time has put in place good and targeted measures to increase energy efficiency. Through the energy requirements for the product and in technical regulations, through Enova and Husbanken, the government has put in place a comprehensive tool tool. With these measures in mind, the government believes it is realistic, but ambitious, to achieve 15 TWh energy efficiency improvement by 2020. 15 TWh is significant. The opposition criticises the government for not having an ambitious goal, but I think that if one can achieve 15 TWh with the measures that are already in place and that will work forward, it must be even better than having some goals. For the future, it is very important that we are already getting such an energy efficiency improvement. Norway is today among the countries with the most stringent energy requirements in buildings. SINTEF Builder's research letter: ‘When correcting for different climates in different countries, a group of four countries designates themselves with the most stringent energy requirements.’ [[Norway, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands]] Furthermore, we can read: ‘Norway has overall the strictest minimum U-value for some building components in Europe, probably also the world, just ahead of Sweden.’ A letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy dated 3 December 2012 states that the effect of 15 TWh energy efficiency is distributed over about 4 TWh in existing dwellings, 6 TWh in existing industrial buildings, 2 TWh in new dwellings and 3 TWh in new industrial buildings. Otherwise, I think it's also a potential in Smart Stream, AMS. Experiences from other countries allude to it. One of the effects of AMS – there are many purposes behind it – is energy efficiency improvement. I am aware that both the industry, Statnett and NVE have done a significant job of clearing up challenges and problems, to get it started. I hope the Council of State will take note of that, and that we will now continue to work on the roll-out of the AMS here in the country. I don't think we should wait for other countries to do it in advance. When we enter into broad settlements on important issues at Stortinget, there is a robust framework that extends over several periods of flooding. The climate problem is a problem where such long-termity is decisive. Therefore, it is also gratifying to note that almost all the parties on the Stortinget now in spring found a broad agreement in climate policy. As part of this agreement, Stortinget made this decision: ‘The government is asking for a return to a goal of energy efficiency in construction during 2012.’ Energy efficiency in buildings is important. Therefore, both in the Climate Communication and in the Building Communication, which is being discussed in Stortinget this year, the government has set out an ambitious strategy for energy efficiency improvement in buildings, which will have the greatest impact beyond 2020. The red-green plural will continue to work to target energy efficiency improvement even in the next major period. As stated in the proposition, the government is its long-term goal of energy efficiency improvement in buildings: ‘The government’s overarching and long-term objective is that new buildings should be resilient with a low environmental impact throughout their lifetime. Until 2040, the government will create a basis for thinking for building where materials, consumption of energy and water, the indoor environment, pollution, transport and waste are put into a holistic context. The government's ambition is that the use of energy in buildings per square metre should be significantly lower by 2040 than today.» With 15 TWh energy saved by 2020 and with this ambitious and realistic goal, we are advancing the important work on energy efficiency improvement in buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e648	In the climate agreement, we agreed that setting a target for energy efficiency in buildings was important. The majority then pointed out that a wide range of instruments, e.g. component requirements, technical regulations, Enova, etc., were relevant for achieving such a target. The majority therefore decided to ask the government to come back with a target for energy efficiency improvement in construction during 2012. The majority also pointed out that, in addition to the reinforcements in the building regulations, there was a significant potential for energy efficiency improvement in buildings, which uses – as has been said – 40 pst. of Norway’s net stationary energy. A proposal was also made for the Stortinget to submit proposals for instruments that could help trigger significant energy efficiency and energy conversion from fossil to environmentally friendly sources in private households. Thus, the climate agreement meant that the government would provide a figure for energy savings during 2012. That's what the government is doing in this case. Based on the measures adopted, a cut of 15 TWh is foreseen by 2020. It is significant and ambitious, but it is primarily an expression of the impact of measures already adopted. It takes time, as has also been said on the Right, to implement substantial on-site measures in the housing stock. In addition to this objective, the effectiveness of the component requirements adopted but not yet established will be achieved. It has also been decided to introduce passive house standard from 2015. Further efforts are being made to clarify what this standard implies, and that means that the effect of the passive house standard is also not included in the figure for 2020. It is important to say that the reference path for the calculations used in this case is the one that was established before the red-green government. The government has more ambitious objectives than that expressed in 15 TWh in 2020. The overall and long-term objective is that new buildings should be sustainable with a low environmental impact throughout their lifetime. The energy use per square metre in construction shall be significantly lower than today. Of course, I share that objective. After participating in various discussions and meeting during the Doha climate summit, I saw that energy savings in many countries have a more central place in the discussion than in Norway. This is due to the fact that the main measure to reduce fossil energy use in many countries where heating and electricity production are carried out with fossil energy sources is to reduce the use of energy in buildings. This is not the case in Norway, where the main energy use in housing is renewable, but our ambition is to save this energy in order to use it to replace fossil energy in other sectors, such as energy. transport. The climate agreement points to the need for instruments both to achieve energy savings and to facilitate the transition from fossil fuel oil. Some of these instruments are already available in Enova, in the House Bank, in the form of energy requirements for products, etc. The latter is to be further worked on. It must also be done, according to the climate agreement, in following up the fact that we are constantly under enough pressure in the energy conversion and that the means we have are giving the most efficient energy savings benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e667	After Iceland, Norway is the country in the world that uses the most electricity per capita, and we stand out clearly negative in terms of energy use in construction. So we have a huge untapped potential for energy efficiency improvement. As the representative Rudihagen said, the cheapest and most environmentally friendly energy is the one we don't use. Therefore, the ambition to achieve energy efficiency must be as high as possible in all. The energy use in construction today is approx. 44 TWh in dwellings and approx. 36 TWh in professional construction. The Arnstad Committee, which made its recommendations in the autumn of 2010, said that it is possible to save 10 TWh by 2020 and 40 TWh by 2040, starting at 80 TWh. In the climate agreement, which several have been involved, we agreed that the Stortinget should ask the government to come back with a goal of energy efficiency improvement in construction during 2012. It took almost a unanimous decision, with the exception of the Advance Party. We have been talking about 2020 all the time in debates and in public debates. The government also presented – I have gone back and looked at the news – this target as a target in 2020. And in the proposition, on page 8, it says: ‘The impact of developments in prices and charges is excluded from the calculation of the underlying target in 2020.’» After a massive exchange of letters between the Council of State and the Committee, we have now found that it is not an objective in 2020; it is a calculation of the impact of the measures already in place. The target is 2040, and the target is so concrete that ‘the energy use in construction per square metre shall be significantly lower in 2040 than today’. It is not a target. That it “should be significantly lower in 2040” – almost 30 years ahead – than it is today, yes, it is a matter of course. Yes, a lot has to be done on the road, but it is not a measurable measure. Another reason why we have talked about 2020 is that the EU has had a major focus on national targets for cut and energy efficiency improvement by 2020. I'm not going to go up the debate about whether it is, or can become, EEA-relevant, but it's interesting for a no-man to see that something actually comes from the EU that's positive. But at least I'm sure that this target would not have been approved, either the target set in 2040, or what is no longer a target, but only a calculation of the impact in 2020. What's interesting when you look at the calculation of the 15 TWh to save is that it's figured out -- I'll quote from the proposition, page 9: ‘In order to find energy efficiency gains, energy use in building is first calculated in 2020 as if all newly built and rehabilitations followed TEK 97. Next, the estimated energy use in 2020 has been given that all buildings will be built according to the new regulations. The difference between these two calculations represents the energy efficiency improvement.’ It's a very interesting way to figure out a measure. Now it's time for New Year's Eve, and it's like I'm going to say that next year I'm going to lose 15 kg, and then I'm going to count on the 15 kg I slimmed down last year. The starting point would have been quite different if I hadn't done what I did last year. It's a very special way of thinking about a measure. It shows that the government has no energy efficiency improvement target at all. A calculation of the effects of instruments to be provided or adopted. It's okay, but it's disappointing, because I wish we set an ambitious goal. I might be correcting myself a little bit because I've seen that the government has had relatively many goals, whether it's been about cleaning Mongstad, about Kårstad, about 3 TWh wind power, about getting an energy message, or what it might be. There have been many objectives that one has not managed to achieve, and therefore it is clear that the instruments are the most important ones. But the Christian People's Party wants a goal because it says something about the ambitions, about the visions, and about where we're going to be in 2020, which then requires new instruments. That is why I am also disappointed when the representative of Aegean is not more offensively clear, when he shows that the IEA says that energy efficiency is one of the most important measures, that we have to follow up, also nationally, and see if we can do even more. That's why the Christian People's Party has followed up the Arnstad Committee. We can't do 10 TWh now, we think, but we have a proposal to do 8 TWh in 2020 and a halving by 2040. That is why I am addressing the proposals made by the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e690	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e693	Energy efficiency has been high in Norway. For households, however, there has been a slight increase in energy use since 1992 and stable energy use in recent years. That doesn't mean that an increment doesn't work, because there are some other factors that also affect energy use. The population has increased by 20 pst. Since 1990, people live on an increasing number of square metres, and increased wealth makes many higher demands for inner comfort. Energy efficiency improvement is effective: energy use without insulation, heat pumps and savings bulbs would be at least 20 pst. higher than today. But it is still the case that the instruments that have been put in so far do not take us to the goal. We need to reduce energy use, not just stop growth. This will require more stringent measures, such as the 2015 passive house standard requirement, the energy presentation requirements for building materials and components, and a much heavier effort by Enova towards energy efficiency improvement. Previous speakers pointed out and illustrated the living problems with the objectives of the government's proposal, and he also pointed out the lack of tools to do something that is really effective in raising energy efficiency. I am sure – after this matter has been brought before the government – that a change of government would be good for energy efficiency improvement in Norway. The left will introduce a tax exemption for environmental investment in owner-occupiers to effectively trigger the potential for energy efficiency improvement in the existing housing stock in Norway, and we will cultivate Enova as a tool for major projects and expansion in industry and municipalities and counties, as well as more stringent technical standards for new buildings. Such measures are good for society, good for the wallet and not least good for the environment. Finally, the left will vote for all minority proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e709	On behalf of the government, I have presented targets for energy efficiency improvement in barley. It is a follow-up and a receipt of the Storting decision in the context of the treatment of the climate notification, where the Stortinget asked the government to come back with a goal of energy efficiency improvement in construction during 2012. The overall, long-term goal of the government is that new buildings should be sustainable, with a low environmental impact throughout their lifetime. By 2040, the government will start thinking of building where materials, consumption of energy and water, the indoor environment, pollution, transport and waste are seen in an overall context. The government's ambition, the measure, is that the energy use in construction per square metre shall be significantly lower in 2040 than it is today. Through this long-term objective, the government is signaling a clear expectation to the industry that the 2040 constructions will be much more than just energy-efficient. We are promoting a holistic approach to the sustainability of construction in the broad sense. By doing so, we believe that it will be essential for Norwegian construction to adapt to the low-emission society. They should also be healthy to live in; it should be a good indoor climate. So it's not like we're starting from a zero point. As the representative Rudihagen was involved in his post, we already have the strictest demands on a wide range of building components, we have among the strictest requirements for technical standards on construction in the world, and for private households in its part, we have already taken significant costs related to technical regulations, but also as such. There are many decisions and measures taken over a long period of time which mean that Norway is already largely exploiting its energy pretty effectively today. But we're going to go on, and with this goal, we're encouraging the industry to take further steps into the low-carbon society by starting to deploy new materials, new technologies and solutions that don't have the same environmental impact as they do today. The industry itself must be involved and take responsibility for identifying future materials, construction methods and transport solutions. In the Climate Communication and in the Building Communication, the Government presented measures that contribute to energy efficiency improvement. Several of these instruments will clearly have the greatest impact after 2020. This applies, inter alia, to: the construction technical requirements. In the Climate Communication, we signaled that we would increase the energy requirements of the building technical regulation to passive house level in 2015 and to almost zero energy level in 2020. It's incredibly ambitious. A decision on the level of requirements is made in the light of studies on the socio-economic and health consequences and the competence of the construction industry. The Government will therefore subsequently lay down the provisions defining the different levels. This government has a comprehensive instrument aimed at improving energy efficiency in buildings. So let's do that through the Enova, we'll do that through the House Bank. Calculations show that it will deliver an effect of 15 TWh energy efficiency in construction by 2020. We believe that this is ambitious but realistic. I would like to stress that an effect of 15 TWh energy efficiency in construction does not necessarily mean that energy use will decrease accordingly. There are many factors that affect the development of energy use, and they are moving in different directions. The main drivers of increased energy use are demographic and economic developments. Energy efficiency in construction moves towards delimiting energy use. I point out that the government has other instruments, such as taxes, such as information and advice, that help trigger energy efficiency measures in buildings. The type of energy efficiency measures is also affected by other factors, such as prices, changes in construction practices or technological developments. On behalf of the government, the NVE has calculated that the effect of minor maintenance and refurbishment work in existing buildings will be 3 TWh between 2010 and 2020. Of these, dwellings account for about 2 TWh — in other words, a not insignificant amount of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e727	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e730	The question of the goal of energy efficiency in construction is very important when we know that 37 pst. energy is just being used in this sector, and the objective of a low level of pressure on future construction is, of course, also a good objective. Then was the measurement methodology used to achieve this goal, which the representative Roppstad was in on, something sought, but let's not do it. We have as a large property owner state, county municipality and municipality, and these own a number of existing buildings that will help reduce energy consumption. The same people - the county and the municipality - have an economy that is not exactly involved and makes one go ahead with such measures. Does the Council have any ambitions, measures, means of reducing energy use in public buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e739	What I have explained here is what I am responsible for. With regard to government policies in relation to the management of state buildings, public buildings and properties, there is simply another department and another Council of State. So that's going to be my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e744	I want to ask the Council of State a question as to why the parties in Stortinget would spend a lot of time and energy in negotiations on a climate settlement to arrive at a point where we ask for a goal of energy efficiency improvement in construction, if what we are presented with is an ambition for a reduction towards 2040, an ambition towards 2040, while the Stortinget asked for a goal of energy efficiency improvement in construction? Why would the Storting do this? Does the Council of State think that there was a desire for a goal, and not an ambition, behind this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e749	We have presented a long-term objective related to the development we believe the construction site will have in Norway. We have also outlined the framework for the current policy, which should be included and drawn in that direction. So I understand, from the speeches that have been made before here, and also from the question raised by the representative Meling, that you are looking for further ambitions and further action. That's what I think with respect to reporting is very strange. We have just addressed a climate communication that has gone through many measures in detail, and I believe that no further action could be expected beyond what we have already submitted and agreed on in the climate communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e756	The Council of State refers to the Climate Communication, but I refer to the Stortingen's treatment of the Climate Communication and to a unanimous increase in the negotiation reached a point where we asked the government to promote a target for energy efficiency improvement in 2012. We didn't ask for an ambition. One thing is what the government puts before the Big One, another thing is that it's actually this Big One that decides what we want from the government. We've asked for a goal, we've got an ambition. In fact, it's pre-Christmas time, and we're sending Christmas cards, but we don't want an ambition back when what the Stortinget has asked for, is a goal for energy efficiency improvement. I hope that the Council of State can look at the proposals, and that the government parties can stand up to them and stick to what we agreed on in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e761	I simply disagree with that. What we have presented here is a goal, a long-term goal of energy efficiency in buildings – just as the Stortinget has asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e766	You really shouldn't argue about goals, because as I was in my post, it's the instruments that are most important. But as I see it, in politics, it is important to point out goals, where you want to be, and then you have to work on the measures to get there all the time. The Council of State makes a good account of this, based on a target in 2040, but why doesn't he come up with a target for 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e771	With all due respect, the Storting has not asked for a 2020 target. A target for energy efficiency improvement has been requested in 2012. It has been presented. It is an honest thing not to like the objectives and formulations that lie there, but there has been a target, and the order that Stortinget made through the climate agreement has been delivered by the government and the department. That's what's on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e776	In the proposition, the government writes: ‘If one is to rank the different instruments, the charges will be the most cost-effective. Aid schemes and standards provide limited scope for individual adaptations and are considered to be less cost-effective.’» My question to the Council of State is: Why has the government not done anything about the electricity charge, and hardly anything about other energy charges, the seven years they have been in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e786	It is, of course, the combination of all these instruments that together provide an effective policy. I mean we do. Then I am aware that there may be different views on where the level of electricity tax, fuel tax and CO2 tax should lie, but there I refer to the State budget, and there I believe we have found a good balance between the different reasons to be taken care of. And let me just say, so it's said from this pulpit: the government's overall goal formulations and instruments, and what's happening in the market in terms of energy efficiency improvement, are very exciting and promising. We are far ahead and as a country we have nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e795	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e800	Instead, in the change of lines, I experienced that the Council of State was questioning the climate agreement through the decision that was taken today. In my opinion, it is clear that legally speaking, he may be right to do so in view of the 2040 target, although it is as little concrete as it can be, given that there will be significantly lower energy use in construction in 2040 than today. It's a sought-after way of setting a goal, and unfortunately there's one thing that's going to be fulfilled almost in any case, in the light of the changes that have already been made. But then he also squeezes out the climate agreement on the basis that we have already implemented a number of instruments and that it has been addressed in the climate communication. But as far as I remember, we also decided in the climate agreement that we should come back with a separate point about different measures for further energy efficiency in construction. I expect that to come soon anyway, because that is something you can talk about, for example. phase-out of oil firing in barley. That's why I need to take the floor now, to say that I feel that the Storting is not taken seriously or taken seriously when it comes to the decisions taken in the climate agreement. This is just one more example – in addition to the last rounds we had around the budget. One can point out that from 2013 there would be support schemes for phase-out of oil firing. Everyone knew that there were additional support schemes in addition to the template system located there, with support up to NOK 10 000. Then we pointed to Oslo, and everyone knows that that was the goal, or the FME centres with the support that would come into the future state budgets – and the coming state budget was 2013, not 2014 or anything else. Next comes a goal of energy efficiency improvement. And as the representative Meling well explained, everyone was thinking about 2020. And when I also challenged the Council of State as to why he didn't set a target for 2020, I got such an answer that I got: it's 2020 that everyone is talking about. It's the EU's goal, and all the organisations are talking about it. Also when the government quoted from at least the NTB message, the goal was presented as more ambitious than the Arnstad committee. That's why I'm a little provoked when you're not willing to set these goals, or at least the climate agreement is as far as it's possible for it to be within. In addition, we've asked what the effect will be. The Arnstad Committee says that 70 TWh in 2020 is possible. The government won't even answer what that really means. There are 15 TWh out of something that could have been, if there had not been action. I think it's a weak follow-up to the climate deal, and I need to say it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e811	This has been exasperating for a linguistic debate on what an objective is. An ambition is not a goal, a number is not a goal. The Christian People's Party believes that there is no target here for 2020; the Right believes that there is no target for 2040. What we have done is at least that the department has followed up the climate agreement, and calculated – as accurately as you can – a credible figure for what you can expect is the increase in 2020. In addition, the scarfs, the reductions, due to the introduced component requirements and the passive housing. Climate reconciliation requires the provision of instruments for the expansion and transition from fossil energy. But it is not bound to 2012, so it is in my opinion a continuous job to make sure that we reach the goals we have set, and get to the ambitions of significantly lower pressure in the amount of housing in the future towards 2040.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e816	I have to say that it is somewhat disappointing to hear the contributions of the representatives of Aegean and Rudihagen. I expected that if not the government, i.e. The councillor, was able to follow up an agreement in the climate agreement, that at least the parties here on the Stortinget had manned themselves up to sneak this in, so we had got what we had ordered, that is, a goal. To the representative of Egeland: a number, a goal, an ambition, a greeting – there is actually a difference between these things. When we asked for a measure of energy efficiency improvement, it was just that we should have something to stretch towards, that we should get tools in place to achieve this goal. Whether it was going to be in 2020 or another year -- that's right, it says to the extent that the climate agreement doesn't talk about anything, but it's talking about a goal. It is right that the representative, Mr Ropstad, also said that expectations were ahead of 2020. Those who were and heard Fatih Birol, one of the directors of the IEA, presenting the latest World Energy Outlook report in Oslo a few weeks ago, he heard that we are now facing an energy efficiency revolution in the world. Unfortunately, that world does not belong to the government, because it is unable to make ambitions visible – it is able to provide a concrete measure that can be verified, which is possible to control the evolution of forwards, for example. 2020, to make adjustments, if necessary, to target what we want. Energy efficiency improvement will be a major industry in the future. What the government does by being as obsessive as it chooses to be in this matter is to exclude important environments of competence, industry in Norway, a domestic market. To the representative of Rudihagen, who says that he cannot understand why the opposition is massing about a target of 15 TWh by 2020, when they can have an effect – perhaps – of 15 TWh by 2020 of the policies we have already adopted: I think there are perhaps several who need a lesson in some basic elements to achieve results. I understand from what the government is doing – or the lack of implementing power the government shows – that someone could each need a lesson. A very basic element is actually to set some measures that are quantified, that are measurable, that are possible to verify, to have it striving against. Good wishes can all deliver, but goals and achievements are clearly another government that needs to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e831	Let me first say that I am a little questioning about some of the words that have become part of this matter. Let me just first make the following point: we are now following up in a very short time the decision taken by the Stortinget, where the government was asked to come back with a goal of energy efficiency improvement in construction in 2012. That's what the government is doing -- we're discussing that today. Then you may not like that goal – that you're dissatisfied with the way it's done. That, of course, is the privilege of the opposition. But to say that we haven't, I think I'm outside. Furthermore, I also think that there is no reason to doubt the fact that what you are doing here is what you are asked to do in the climate agreement. If we don't agree that what's in the climate agreement is actually in the climate agreement, this is going to be demanding. In other words, if we were to expect a further increase in targets, with new figures, action plan and instruments to achieve any other objectives, it would have to have been in the climate agreement, not to have a target for energy efficiency improvement that we were to present in 2012. It is also important to say that Norway has an established policy in almost all relevant areas in order to have a good policy in the field of energy efficiency. This is the field where many have had ambitions for a long time. Norway is already one of the most advanced countries in energy efficiency improvement, and it is reflected, among other things, in this respect. in that we are one of the countries with the most stringent requirements for construction regulations. Well, that's what I think we can choose to be proud and satisfied with, and then together we have to think about how we're going to go on. But to say that that means that the government and the Storting are not able to give the building industry something to reach out to, I'm fundamentally in disagreement with. On the contrary, the Norwegian construction industry has a lot to offer and has a lot to prove, also in order to be able to implement passive house standard in 2015 and almost zero-emission house in 2020. Rather, if there are further measures that you are looking for, and will have implemented, you can suggest them instead of having some sort of shadow debate where the government is accused of not following the agreements we have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e844	The representative called "Rippling City" has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e847	This article was really pretty clarifying, because it shows that we now understand why we're discussing against each other as we do. For the second time in a couple of weeks, State Councillor Borten Moe said something quite wrong from the climate agreement to Decision VI, which the Stortinget decided. After the goal, it says: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals to the Storting using instruments to trigger significant energy efficiency and energy conversion from fossil to environmentally friendly sources in private households.’ We had expectations that there would be more, and therefore Stortinget decided that there would be more. That's why it means that when we want a goal, it was in the review, in the daily speech, in public vocabulary, etc. 2020 was about. However, when it does not come in 2020 and there is no need for further action or instruments, it does not respond to the task that the Stortinget gave to the government. Therefore, I cannot see that it looks as if the Council of State has intended to follow up what the Stortinget – almost unanimously – decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e857	The representative of Egeland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e860	The representative Siri A. Meling says that ambitions can all deliver, but these are ambitions that are not solved thoughts, but are designed as a goal. What she introduces is now a new concept, namely target numbers – which were not part of the climate discussions. Here, a measure has been delivered, using the 2020 calculation methods that have also been used by other governments. It's ambitious, but it's realistic. This was not the case in the climate agreement ‘new measures in 2012’, although the opposition had probably expected new measures, and they had – to put it correctly – expected tax deductions, which they are addressing, but which will have very little effect as they themselves have presented them in their national budgets. But it was in the climate agreement that action should be taken, and that is what the government will have to follow up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e867	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e881	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative. The first speaker is the representative of Tor-Arne Stroem, on behalf of the representative of Eirin Sund, who is the spokesman for the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e892	Today we are dealing with the setting of changes to the Energy Act, and that is an important matter. We're in a period of big investment in the energy industry. Through the electrical certificate cooperation with Sweden, we facilitate large investments in power generation, and Statnett’s investment plan provides for a large-scale investment in upgrading and new construction of networks. In this situation, it is essential that we have a good and effective process that looks at the development of production and networks in the context. The changes presented in Prop. 41 L for 2012–2013, comes as a follow-up to the Storting decision during the processing of the online notification earlier this year. Ensuring energy supply and access to energy facilitate the development of wealth and industrial development are among our key tasks as politicians. Electricity transmission through transmission lines is often a controversial issue of major local and national interest. It is important that we ensure a concession process that is professionally strong, transparent and trusting. I believe that the changes that are now being made to the Energy Act facilitate a more flexible and better procedure. Under the new regime, the Department will be involved earlier in the process, which makes political responsibility clear. The decision-making competence of large network projects is transferred to the King of State Council and opens up for external quality assurance of design choices. These are important and correct measures that will help to streamline processes and reduce the level of conflict. Secure and predictable supply of electricity is crucial for society. Electricity is currently a prerequisite for most of the processes in households, public and business. The Committee also considers that the development of the power grid is a priority task and that the concession treatment period and the effectiveness of the concession treatment process for network projects should be strengthened. I would like to thank the colleagues in the Committee on Energy and the Environment for the speed with which we have been able to deal with this matter. It is a unanimous committee that supports this proposal. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e909	This proposition is a follow-up to Report. St. 14 for 2011–2012, We build Norway, and I would like to refer to the Right's comments in the handling of this message for the sake of order. The right is concerned that we have efficient concession processes both in terms of energy production and network infrastructure. The challenge will be to balance the effective processes with a good and open dialogue on the need for new lines, with the landowners, stakeholders and communities affected in terms of trajectory choices and different electricity transmission solutions. By the changes we are adopting today, we want to achieve a prior political involvement in the major power lines and a more effective concession process. In the future, Norway's watercourse and energy directorate will give a call for proposals to the Ministry, which will again send the call for consultations before a decision is taken by the King of the Council of State. An important element of this new solution is the possibility of requiring an external quality assurance and the ministry issuing an opinion to the applicant’s assessment of needs and design choices. For the right, it is important that quality assurance is trusted by different interest groups, and it is therefore essential that the professional quality is high and that no one questions the independence of the actor who actually carries out the analyses. Construction of infrastructure, power lines, has a high potential for conflict in many places. We have seen this in Hardanger with the expansion of Sima–Samnanger, and we have more recent examples from the expansion of the route between Ørskog and Sogndal. The modification of the recommended trasé selection through the appeal procedure has led, inter alia, to: through the media, questions have been asked whether Minister of Oil and Energy Ola Borten Moe has provided friends services to colleagues in the Central Party locally by changing the position of Norway's watercourse and energy directorate on some of the sections that were charged to the Ministry. This type of intervention depends on the legitimacy of the local population and landowners, and it is therefore important that the dialogue is open and good throughout the process. Choices of solutions must be based on professional judgements open to transparency, and it is important that the State takes the lead as a good example by following rules of play and taking into account the factors we expect local communities and citizens themselves to follow. I would also like to point out that the Right, together with the other opposition parties, has proposed that Statnett’s network development plan be presented to the Stortinget at least once every period in order to strengthen the political basis and legitimacy of the network investments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e926	I would first like to thank the Stortinget for the prompt treatment of the present bill. The amendments to the Energy Act are a follow-up to the network message notifying changes to the concession treatment for major power lines. I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the new rules proposed by the government. A strong and robust electricity network is important in order to meet the growing need for stable and good power supply in society. Therefore, Statnett is now undertaking significant investments in the network. The development of large power lines is decisions on how many are affected and conflicting considerations need to be weighed and weighed. I have great respect for the fact that it will always be affected that is not satisfied with the decision that is finally taken. For this reason, thorough and good procedural processes are particularly important. At the same time, it has been shown that the procedure for large power lines projects takes too long. It is therefore necessary to take action to improve the effectiveness of the procedure, without prejudice to the quality of the procedure itself. The legislative proposal provides the legal basis for imposing external quality assurance on general questions of principle and introduces a prior political involvement. The aim is to strengthen the governance of energy authorities with the concept choice. We do that by ensuring the professional quality of the decision-making basis. The government believes it is important to set the framework for the electricity pipeline project early, so that it becomes clear which alternatives are involved. Thus, further consideration of the concession issue can be focused and reduced to more detailed questions about the remaining, remaining, alternatives. The changes in the concession treatment of major power lines also imply that the decision-making competence is transferred to the King of State Council. Major power lines are of major political and social importance and therefore decisions should be taken at the highest level of administrative law, following extensive and very thorough concessional treatment both in the NVE and in the ministry. At the same time, the Government proposes to coordinate the decision-making competence for power lines which are dealt with together with a case under watercourse law where the King of State Councils takes decisions. This will result in a more efficient and transparent process. In order to implement the changes signaled in the network message, regulatory changes are also required and a regulatory guide is to be established to clarify the legislation. The Government aims to implement the necessary changes in the near future. We are now in a very active period for the development of the transmission network in Norway. It is necessary to ensure the best possible power supply for all of us. At the same time, we need to make it possible for all renewable energy – whether from water or wind – to be fed into the network. With the overall regulatory framework we are now getting in place, we should be well aware of an efficient and administratively very good concession treatment of power plants in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e945	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e948	Understandably, many local communities, municipalities and landowners are concerned with issues relating to large-scale development projects in the network infrastructure. As I said in my post, which I also realized the Council of State is concerned about, it is important to have an understanding of why you need to have these projects and to have good dialogue to find good solutions for where these are going. In such a process, it is essential that there is good and open dialogue, a sharing of factual knowledge, etc. There have been some concerns about the last few things. My question to the Council of State will be: How can we make these processes with regard to community become better? Has the Council of State made any reflections on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e953	I've done a lot of reflections about it, not least after Sima-Samnanger, who with respect to reporting had some other dimensions over it than what we're talking about now. I don't think that's a simple answer. I think what the Storting is doing here today is one of several answers – a previous political clarification, previous quality assurance, which at least means moving the question away from whether it is necessary for the line or not, to discuss where this line is going and different trajectories. Then we've spent a lot of time with Statnett and with regional and local authorities to get as much involvement as possible. But then I think that sometimes when it comes to the problem, we have to realize that you have to choose between two alternatives, or three alternatives, and that the line ends up near someone, or not near someone – both of them may be a problem – and that there will be parties that are not satisfied with the decision that is finally taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e962	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e978	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e987	The proposal for a representative is three-thirds. The first point relates to the removal of county/territory rights in municipal planning and land decisions. The second point relates to an administrative court of its own/own administrative supervision to deal with complaints following municipal level decisions. The third point relates to the desire to assess the possibility of complaining about policy decisions in the municipality. The plurality, the government party and the Christian People's Party, insist not to adopt these proposals. The right hand side and the progress side have their own comments, and I think they're doing the right hand side. But I note that even though the Progress Party is behind the proposal for a representative, they do not follow it up in the motion for a resolution in the vote. Thus, under point I of the proposal for a representative, it is proposed to remove the county/territory right, but in the proposal for a decision this has now become a ‘proposal restricting the right of objection of the county/territory.’. In my opinion, that's a big difference. In the notes, however, the Party of Progress states that they take up the proposal set out in document 8:124 S. It is, carefully said, somewhat unclear what the Progress Party actually means. The draft representative also proposes the removal of county counterclaims, but in the comments on the Progress Party, only County State counterclaims are mentioned. Then I agree with the proposers that it is good to have a debate on counterclaims. Every day for the municipalities and local politicians, we know that from our own experience as spokesmen and local politicians, and we are still told that in meeting with local politicians from many parties. One feels that too many instances have contradictions, that the state does not stand up with an opinion, but often with many conflicting views, because different governmental authorities have different opinions. Moreover, it is not good for the state not to participate in regional planning processes where possible, so as to be able to counter in retrospect. Nevertheless, it is not such that the counterinstitution should be removed. It is there to ensure that state leaders in planning and land matters are followed and that the interests of municipalities and regional authorities are preserved. For example, an ever-increasing part of the contradictions is linked to the coastal zone code. The protection of all-man's rights and the protection of free movement in the 100-metre belt is an important national concern, so it's good to keep it on the alert. State interference may also be appropriate to ensure future road construction, other transport, housing, natural disasters and other important national concerns. But of course, one must be very careful to review the political judgement and decisions of the local government. It is the individual municipality that has authority to adopt municipal spatial plans. In a letter from the Minister for the Environment dated 24 October of this year to the Committee, one refers to the statement by the KS: «Impact of the opposition institute on local self-government». It states that the distribution concludes that ‘the opposition institute has an important function in the planning system and that it has legitimacy in the municipalities’. It goes on to say: ‘The main challenge is to practice, which, according to the KS study, has weak political legitimacy in the municipalities.’ I think that's a good observation. Therefore, a review of this practice and probably new guidelines from the ministry is needed. It is very good that the Department has taken note of this effort to assess what measures are needed to ensure that the counterinstitution is used in accordance with the intentions. This supports the majority of the Committee. There is much that can be done to improve the practice of countersigns rather than to eliminate counterrights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1020	With this proposal, the proposers wish to draw attention to the way in which the county officials deal with the right of objection. Proposalers believe that the law and circular of the Ministry of the Environment provide County with clear guidelines for the exercise of the right of objection. In circular 5/95 it says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘The right of objection bodies are assumed to exercise great caution in overseeing the local authority’s political judgement.’ The claim of the proposers is that the political judgement of the local government is being overestimated in local circumstances where the County Government's objections are most widely used. Nobody – is my claim – knows better than local politicians how to deal with a case. It is not credible when the State's refusal in the individual case is covered by general rules. For those who are refused a plan or a construction case, it is important that the facts of the case be assessed, not only by reference to general rules. Proposals are concerned with the development and strengthening of municipal autonomy. If most municipal decisions are disregarded by reference to the right of objection, the tasks of municipal politicians will ultimately be to a large extent to administer budgets. Proposalers are concerned with the principle of subsidiarity and believe that municipal politicians are best placed to manage the areas of the municipality. It includes policies in, for example: beach area, protection areas, national parks, sea area management, hydropower and wind farms. It is only in very special cases, where clear and important national projects need to be ensured, that municipalities are not to dispose of their own land. National measures envisaged are major power-producing plants and petroleum plants, as well as national and European road development. State regulatory plans for these major actions will be natural in order to achieve reasonable progress in the planning process. The red-green government has contributed to the right to have large municipal areas and values transferred from local authorities to state authorities. The county's extensive use of the right of objection has been a strong contributor to this. A few months ago, by watching TV 2, we could see an entry from Bergen. There was a clear claim from the municipality: the municipality of Bergen had been prevented from facilitating several residential areas due to objections from Fylkesmannen. According to this report, the municipality had registered a total of 26 senior authorities with a right of objection. In view of this, it is likely that the Opposition Institute and its holders should be discussed more frequently in the Stortinget than has been done so far. Without this being changed as soon as possible, the danger of the disappearance of all municipal rights will be imminent. Proposalers will have a reform of land and environment management where the discretionary exercise of land management is transferred from County to local, elected authorities. The land management framework must be laid down by government authorities. The proposers wish to establish their own administrative supervision to deal with complaints following municipal planning decisions. Then I'd like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. For a fact: this concerns the comment of the Progress Party on page 3 of the setting, which should have been deleted. In the twelfth hour, the Progress Party changed the setting from removing the county state's right of objection to limit it. It is stated in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1053	The representative Henning Skumsvoll then drew up the proposals he referred to, and made a correction to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1056	Today, we are making an important proposal to delineate the State's right of reciprocity in municipal planning and land-use matters. This is an important theme and, at a number of previous times, the right has proposals to strengthen municipal self-government in planning and land-use matters. Two years ago, we had a comprehensive proposal to strengthen local democracy and property rights in environmental and land management, including: making changes to planning and building laws. Control from above or from below is a simple word in the political debate that shows the difference between red-green policy and what the opposition stands for. Right wants growth from below, and it characterizes our whole political basic attitude. We believe that the spread of power makes society stronger, and that strengthening local self-government and much more respect for private ownership are an important foundation for such a spread of power. The fact that the individual is to have a great deal of power over his own life situation has been central to Norwegian culture for all years. The municipalities themselves form the foundation wall of the local government, and the municipalities represent both the connection and the possibility to influence the future of the inhabitants. That's why the Right wants more power for the municipalities. One of the biggest harms after seven years of red-green rule is the harsh participation of local democracy and private ownership from the three government parties. Despite the finer words of increasing local self-government, the right of access to large areas and values is transferred from local authorities to state authorities. This process has led to a crisis of confidence between local communities and central authorities in many places. Moving power challenges a tradition where natural areas have been managed through largely gentle local use for generations. Increasingly, a decision relating to protection and land use is perceived as a conflict between local and central authorities. Despite large words from the government party's side, practical policies have shown that both local democracy and private ownership have had far worse conditions than that of former bourgeois governments. I have previously mentioned a good example of government overmanagement from my own home state, Sogn and Fjordane, where a private developer wanted to build three cabins at Endestadwatten. The planning and development selection in the municipality of Flora has, in several respects, been reconciled with the supported regulation plan, and the municipality adopted the plan on 16 June 2009. Due to correspondence from County of Sogn and Fjordane and comments from the Directorate of Nature Management, the regulatory plan was sent to the Ministry of Environment, where he was rejected in Decision No 29 June 2011. On the right, local authorities in the municipality of Flora and other municipalities will decide on such matters. Greater local jurisdiction will lead to greater legitimacy for the decisions that will be taken. It will facilitate greater local participation; not least, bureaucratic duplication of efforts can be rationalised. Local self-determination guarantees closeness to decisions, with the right of citizens and a living local democracy. Municipalities should therefore play a more central role in local social development. For the Right, growth from below is more important than control from above, and therefore, the Right will strengthen the local self-government. The right of state bodies to object to municipal decisions in planning matters, as we see in this case from the municipality of Flora, is the main reason why municipal self-determination is restricted. Unfortunately, local politicians' judgements are rarely taken into account in such cases. Right is the fact that there must be some form of State counterpartition, which ensures that national sovereignty is guaranteed, and that the municipalities comply with the laws and regulations of accumulation and government. We therefore do not want to abolish it completely, as this proposal puts it. But the Right is concerned that the counterclaim or the threat of contradiction, which, according to Right's opinion, should be the last resort, has unfortunately almost become the main rule in local land issues. Therefore, the Right cannot support the proposal as it stands, but suggests that it be added to the meeting book. In the opinion of the Right, therefore, there is a need for a reform that would limit the rights of State authorities and restore power to local politicians. Therefore, the right-hand side would like to see it. to limit the possibility for County State to review municipal decisions only for the purpose of law enforcement and complaint management, so as to eliminate the possibility for County State to review municipalities based on judgement. Decisions based on judgement, where different considerations are to be emphasised, are at the very heart of democracy. Therefore, the Right believes that one should leave this to elected local politicians, not government officials. And then I'll deal with the proposal that the right-hand position has.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1092	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1095	At Svend and Lena Foyn's old homes for widows by seamen, there were some rules that everyone had to follow. The first rule was: Unnecessary complaints must not be made. The next rule was: if they are presented, they must be presented to the manager. We can agree on this: Unnecessary objections must not be raised, but what is unnecessary objection is difficult to resolve. That's what the manager was supposed to decide. As a municipal politician, I am also to strengthen municipal maritime governance, but I realize that the world is becoming increasingly complicated. Several of the decisions we make matter to others. Increased productivity in the actual execution of tasks, such as building houses and road construction, is eaten up by an increasing share of costs and time associated with planning. We may dislike that, but it's hard to turn that clock back and go to a world where the carpenter built the bridge, the house or the fist without asking anyone because it didn't touch anyone else. Now the probability is great that the house stops others from accessing the beach, that the road goes into a natural area, etc. Going back on this is like crushing spinning machines, as someone did in the incipient industrial revolution to stop social development. Just as little as we can reverse the industrial revolution, we can go back to a world where we don't have to consider others. It's backwards, it's reactionary. We have to accept that increasing cross-cutting considerations impose greater planning requirements, and then we have to find effective ways to do this. The Right Party and the Advance Party will move the beauty exercise from County to local elected bodies, but they also say: «At the same time, the land management framework must continue to be laid down by State authorities.» You're equidistant. Today, we have a system built on the fact that municipalities have a great responsibility for land policy, precisely because there is an opportunity for the state to intervene where national considerations are being undermined. The local authorities must constantly let go of being tried, says the Right Party and the Advance Party. And they go on to say, ‘At the same time, of course, it must not be such that any municipality should be able to powder Norwegian law by being able to refer to local discretion.’ Many of the objections relate precisely to different perceptions of the law. Right-wing protests for all the world, but largely follow the path. But the Progress Party takes it out completely, and proposes the right of objection replaced by a court. They will remove the judgement decisions from the policy and leave it to some kind of justice. In my opinion, there is less room for common judgment and compromise. This will lead to increased red tape, increased costs and subsequent proceedings. Remember, it's just 1 pst. by the objections raised by the Ministry of the Environment, the others will be resolved relatively amicably along the way. A political conflict between emphasising local and national concerns needs to find a political solution rather than a bureaucratic one. Neither the Right Party nor the Progressive Party says anything about which national interests they believe should give way to stronger local government. Should rail traverse the country without national coordination? Instead of fighting against wind turbines, in order to use a literary rather than a literal expression, we should work to avoid objections by early involvement of key actors in planning and knowledge of national guidelines and interests. In Vestfold, it is being developed in a work called Planportal Vestfold. The aim is to establish good rules of interaction and to disseminate important national and regional interests, which must be safeguarded. If the driving rules are followed, this will be a guarantee against objections to planning issues, it is stated on the project’s website. There is a cooperation between the KS, the County Municipality, Vegvesenet, the NVE, the Food Authority, the Railway Agency and the County State. In my view, this is a far more constructive approach than that of the Progress Party and the Right. There is also a common desire from SV to avoid objections that delay proceedings. At the same time, it is important to recognise the importance of regional and national considerations. There is a need for coordination at state level – better communication, better information for municipalities – and I am pleased that the ministry is now looking at what measures can be taken in this area without the child being thrown out with the bathing water, as the Progress Party and the Right will.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1127	The centre party has always been the focus of local democracy's terms. We believe that the wit is equally distributed across the country, and we know that our country is very different, from municipality to municipality. The good solutions are often found locally. Planning is important. Through the plan tool, the municipality ensures that the development hangs together and that one takes the necessary care. A guarantee by planning also democratic influence in the processes – and thus a anchoring between residents and municipalities that is stronger than when, for example, it is. used exceptions and exemptions. For the Central Party, it is therefore important in this debate to stress that it is the individual municipality that has formed the form of adopting municipal spatial plans, and that the threshold to review policy decisions on local conditions must be particularly high. It is also important that a search is made to limit regulations, reporting, letters of expectation, etc. which complicates planning unnecessarily. Many of us know an example where too rigid bureaucracy and countersigns that should not be promoted prevent natural and sensible development. But we also have examples of municipalities that through mediation have found good solutions that take care of both local and national concerns. It is therefore important that, through municipal planning, it is possible to take account of the national concerns of politicians in this room. That's why it's not relevant for the Center Party to go for the removal of the counterinstitution. And it is with some wonder that I record that the Progress Party – which, after countless debates here in this Chamber, has said that the consideration of the municipal politicians' power must give way to national power and take over tasks in other areas – now shows a touching commitment to the influence of the municipalities in planning matters. The central party, like the plurality, thinks that the institute must pass, but the use must have what we call a "walk" in the Center Party. Every time the counterpartisan institute is used unnecessarily, it weakens its trust in the institute. It is therefore important to ensure that this occurred to the minimum possible extent. Coordination is another important point. In individual cases, opposing parties may conflict with each other. There is even greater reason to look at coordination of state interests before engaging in dialogue with municipalities, so that the state speaks with a voice. The proposers argue with the desire to strengthen elected government at the expense of bureaucrats. Well, a court of law isn't necessarily the best way to do it. I think it's better to look at how, for example: may give the elected regional level a more important role in the exercise of judgement and in coordination. But that's not the theme of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1144	The principle of subsidiarity is a central principle in the ideology of the Christian People's Party. Christian democracy focuses on the small communities and the family as the basic cell of society. We are opposed to unnecessary state intervention and believe that decisions should be taken as closely and as appropriately as possible to those concerned. Therefore, we believe that municipalities should have the power to take their decisions without State interference, as long as they comply with the laws and regulations in force. Another central value in the Christian People's Party's ideology is the administrative responsibility. Nature is to be managed in such a way that our descendants have the same opportunities that we have had. This is a good reason why there should be a right of objection allowing for review of municipal decisions where these are contrary to important national considerations. Examples of such considerations may include soil protection, natural diversity and the right of all persons — or more practical cases such as driving power lines or roads. Although the Christian People's Party has chosen to vote against the proposals put forward in this case, we believe that the proposers put their finger on a problem that needs to be addressed. The right of objection to the municipalities in planning matters is a central instrument for ensuring the protection of important national interests, but we have therefore repeatedly been shown that the right of objection is being abused. This is not an argument for removing this right, but rather a call for tightening up the practice and regulation. In its own examination of this issue, KS has itself concluded that the opposition institute has an important function in the planning system and that it has legitimacy in the municipalities. The main challenge is the practice, which according to the KS study has weak legitimacy in the municipalities. A number of governmental bodies have the right to raise objections to municipal planning matters. This is essential to ensure that state guidelines are followed; e.g.: is an ever-increasing part of the objections related to the coastal zone legislation. The protection of the rights of all persons and the protection of free movement in the 100 metre belt is an important national consideration and, consequently, it is positive that state bodies follow up the local authorities’ approach to national guidelines in their planning matters. The Ministry of the Environment decides at the base of 1 pst. of the more than 2000 plan items dealt with in municipalities each year. In 99 p.m. of the cases, the municipality and the state reach agreement locally. In its reply to the Committee, the Minister for the Protection of the Environment states that ‘there is a need to examine the way in which the objection mechanism is practised and the impact of the use of the opposition institute’ — I agree — and that ‘the ministry has started this work’. I'm glad the Council of State has done that. Like KS, the Christian People's Party believes that the Ministry of the Environment as the Ministry of Coordination has to revise the circular on objections so that the practice of the scheme is consistent with the intention: uniform and predictable. Stricter practices will reduce objections, increase the legitimacy of the scheme and contribute to more efficient use of scarce planning resources and speed up planning implementation. The circular should be drawn up by a composite sample with participation from the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1159	I think the counterinstitution is necessary to preserve national interests, but there is a need to improve practice. In 2011, it was agreed approx. 2 100 spatial plans in Norway. Of them, 770, or about 34 pst., met with countersigns. There has been a slight increase in the last decade, which may make it possible to see closer to it. I think that when many decisions are taken in a municipality, they have consequences for a lot more of the people who decide, than for those who take it, the core here is how we handle it. When decisions have consequences for others in the municipality and for other municipalities with regard to government-affiliated policies – how do we manage them? The counterinstitution is the answer to that, i.e. the possibility of objecting, contradicting, against a decision, based on the fact that it is superior to guidelines and leadership that are important and that they can break with. In 99 p.m. Of the cases, as has been said here, such objections lead to changes, large or small, where one takes into account the objections and agrees. In 1 pst. in the event of a failure to agree, and the matter goes to the Ministry of the Environment. It's also an expression that we focus on what we call collective reason. Each and every one of us may want a cabin on the beach, but it can actually ruin other people's access to important open-air areas. To remove or severely restrict the right to refuse means to strengthen the individual's interest in development that goes beyond the interests of the community, and it will make it harder to achieve long-term, sustainable land management in the country, as the Stortinget has agreed. In the light of the debate on the Counterpartition Institute, the Ministry of the Environment has started work on reviewing the Counterpartition Institute in Planning and Building Laws. We have also started a review of responsibilities and procedures with twelve departments involved to obtain facts and experience, with a view to making a holistic assessment of whether the practice is in line with the promises. In addition, KOSTRA hosts are to be analysed, where we are to go in and see closer to selected municipalities and counties. There are three perspectives that I particularly want to take, which are important in this review. The first is that it must be an objective that only important regional and national interests, or issues which for other reasons have a significant impact on the subject matter of the relevant body, i.e. avoiding unnecessary State interference, are to be warned or countered. As one of the representatives said before, one should only have the necessary state interference. Secondly, the counterparts must be in the planning process at an early stage. I think that everyone who works with politics or decisions in different ways will recognize that one is open to objections, but pay attention to the fact that the objections must come early in a process, so that a quick overview of the full image can be found when one goes on. Thirdly, coordination of State counterparts should be assessed. There are today many instances of different kinds. The county has the most, the county has quite a lot of the countersigns, and there are some other state agencies that have countersignal access. So how to ensure better coordination will be an important job to look at. I would also like to stress that it may be appropriate to consider whether it is being done in parts of the country in good ways that others can learn from. The question of an own administrative court for municipal planning matters has previously been dealt with and rejected by the Stortinget, on the basis of representative proposals and the examination of planning and building laws. I think the countersign system is a better way to check that plan decisions are within the promised framework than to establish a management court. First, I'm very skeptical about an extra court order. I believe that there are elected bodies that have to make decisions as far as possible, based on objections and overseeing guidelines. Secondly, I cannot see the need for a new bureaucracy. I think it is important to keep up with a good job and a good bureaucracy, but I can't see that it is wise to build a new element. Finally, a country has to manage the most important resources together according to overarching practices — human, natural resources and land.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1186	In my former municipality of residence, Flekkefjord, the municipality has experienced the same thing as is the case with many other municipalities. In the case of plans already approved, objections are raised from the State when those plans are to be implemented. There are several plans in Flekkefjord. The plan that I want to raise questions about now is called the Kirkesundodden on Hidra, an island outside Flekkefjord. We know that in the coastal zone plan, the area is dedicated to the construction site. Objection was notified by the County because of a construction ban in the 100-metre zone. After all, the County has previously adopted and approved this plan. Therefore, I have a question for the Council of State: Is the Council of State comfortable threatening the State to object to a plan previously approved by the State pending the development of a new coastal zone plan? Isn't this to keep landowners and municipalities a fool?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1193	I ask you to understand that I cannot comment on this individual case, which I do not know here and now, I have to admit. But, in general, I can say that building-prohibition issues in the coastal zone are among the main reasons why it is necessary to have a counter-institution. Even if we have tighter up and down the line, we see that in the press area, in the Inner Oslofjord, in the South, around the big cities and up along our coast, there is a significant reduction in our beach area. In my county, Akershus, two thirds of the 100-meter belt is being built today. There is a significant growth in the decline around many of the big cities. So I think it's very important to have a strict practice here, because it's about the freedom to use beaches, swabergs and the area of the vast majority of the population, which is a very important freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1200	Section 5-4 of the Planning and Building Act states that objections can be raised if: «questions of national or substantial regional importance». That means that the law has built up a pretty high threshold for intervention. The KS study has shown that the opposition institute is widely used without any indication by the objector of the opposition of the legal basis on which to overestimate the local self-government. It is believed that just explaining such a basis, had also pushed forward a bit of reflection on the part of the person who is considering using the objection. We are many in this country who have the self-esteem that everything we do is of national and regional importance. But it might have been a brake. My question to the Council of State also includes a proposal. In fact, it is a circular that can be updated by the Council of State, which goes out to potential users of the Opposition Institute, and which goes into exactly this: prepare the legal basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1214	It is quite right that the Laws of Planning and Building have set a very high threshold as to whether there are governmental or other important interests within the image. There are also clear requirements for participation in the process for the authorities to countersign. That's one of the reasons why I found it a little difficult to understand that the Right and the Advance Party will greatly reduce the possibility that already has a high threshold. On the contrary, I felt that the track that the representative Tetzschner is now on is constructive, if we need to put the practice into practice. It's definitely up to us to look at it. We're going to clarify the basis that needs to be present to produce a contradiction, and how to participate in the process. It's among the themes I think it's natural to include in this review. I want to stress that before we conclude, we need to go even heavier into the drug and get more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1221	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the article, which had many good points and angles that I can say I fully agree with. In terms of experience and learning from different areas, I represent myself a state that has had major challenges related to coastal zone problems. But after a broad review with the County Council and the municipalities have experienced that it has calmed down very much, because it is more predictable which areas can be expanded, and which can not be expanded. I know that the Council of State is well aware of this, and it can be taken as an example further. My question is really just about the work that the Council of State said they're doing, which I think is very important, and I share the elements that it's important to look at. I see that in an exchange of letters with KS, the Council of State writes that he views KS as an important partner, and I think that is very important and correct. So my challenge is just, what does the Council of State think about the participation of the KS? Is he in progress, should the KS be invited in, or can he say anything about the process further?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1230	Yes, we will have close contact with KS in that process. We want to invite them in to come up with suggestions and points of view. I had a meeting with KS’ leadership in the fall where this was the main theme. That was before we decided the review. We will continue to have new contacts with them at political level, but also at more administrative level on concrete issues. I am also well aware of what the County of East-Agder has done, both through contact with the County Council and after hearing the views of several spokesmen in East-Agder municipalities, who boasted very much of the development of cooperation there. In both Aust-Agder and some other states, there are quite interesting things happening, where the common denominator might be: trying to clear up previous issues in which one says that this is not relevant, and what matters are saying that this can be a few powers for – and closer dialogue and better interaction between the municipalities and the statesmen. It seemed interesting to me to see more closely in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1237	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1242	This proposal for a representative has been prepared for a debate on the state doctor, and for that part of the county council, the bodies' ability to raise objections in planning matters in each municipality. The background is a number of messages from municipalities that feel overrun, and local democracy is not accepted for local authority and local knowledge to the extent necessary. It's claimed that when you insert contradictions, it's to create a dialogue. It's a strange start to a dialog -- let's underline it. The right of state bodies to challenge their decisions in planning matters is the main reason why municipal self-government rights are restricted. The question is why the city councillors' judgements are rarely taken into account. The majority of the committee writes that they note that in more than 2 000 plan items that are dealt with each year, it is at the lower end of 1 pst. of these cases that the Ministry of the Environment decides. In 99 p.m. of the cases, the municipality and the state come to an agreement. This is right, and then the question is, why is it like this? Yes, because the matters and a further anchor take so long that a simple, simple, forced person is forced to accept. Having a regulatory case in which the business community is involved, they don't have the opportunity to wait for three to five years before a case is finished. We've seen a lot of examples of such a time usage. There is a recognition among the red-greens about this, when one writes that one is aware that one has seen an increase in the number of opponents in the last few years, even though this recognition does not appear in the debate. A Joint Committee agrees with the Minister for the Protection of the Environment that there is a need to look at how the counter-signatory system is practised and the impact of the use of the counter-signatory. The Progress Party is committed to developing municipal self-government, and believes that local democracy should consist of more than managing budgets. Local authorities must therefore refrain from making local and democratic decisions subject to review by the State or the Cultural Department in relation to ancient memories. The signatures were recently contacted by representatives from the Sande municipality in More and Romesdal on a case that is related to ancient monuments in the town centre, where one by law must have a minimum distance of five metres to the ancient memory. In plan work, one chose to double this distance in time to ensure it is non-matched. But what happened? Just the same instance required much greater distance, and one experienced even more that ancient memories should have a view of the sea. Is it possible to show less respect for local democracy than this, since one of the reasons had very limited space available? There are too many of these examples, leading to feelings of abstinence among local politicians. This is not how it can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1257	Yesterday we had a debate on state objections to municipal plans. Today we have the same debate again. When we discussed the building announcement a week ago, as well, and in the budget debate the same day, and in the debate four weeks ago about measures for increased housing, to mention something. In the municipal section of the Workers' Party there has become a standing joke, which says, "Lise, now you get to find out your article about objections, again." So here it comes. In its proposal, the Progress Party refers to the Plan Law Committee, which highlighted the popular governance of the planning processes. That's right, but the sample never meant that the county officials' right of objection should be removed. On the contrary. The opposition body was proposed to continue but to clarify which bodies could raise objections as to what and within which time limits. The committee further stated that there is an important precondition for the use of the objection that the competent State authority has addressed its interests in the initial programming phase in the preparation of each plan. A minority of five, including two members appointed by the CS, also proposed that the right to raise objections should lapse if this obligation of early participation by the objectors in the plan has not been fulfilled. In fact, the government chose to follow the minority when new planning and building laws were passed in the previous period. So it's not right when the Right Party and the Advance Party in the vote write that despite unanimous decisions in KS in 2004, the sitting government will not change the right of objection of state bodies in planning matters. The change happened four and a half years ago. The Aplan/Agenda report is used by the right hand party and the Progress Party as arguments for lifting the State’s right of objection. It's not cover for that. The report states, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘The findings and discussions in the project show that there is broad agreement that the opposition institution has an important function to ensure that both local, national and significant regional interests are taken into account in spatial planning. In addition, the Foundation contributes to the coordination of sectoral laws with planning under the Planning and Building Act. The main challenge is related to the practice.’ It is serious when objections are used for anything other than what they are intended to do. It is serious when the municipalities do not know the means they actually have, according to the law. But it's already been taken into consideration by the Council of State. The proposers are concerned about the lack of popular governance in planning matters, but therefore propose that a administrative court should take a decision in political conflicts. Taking decisions out of politics and over in the jessen, entrusting land conflicts to a handful of non-people elected, is no guarantee that the municipality will win. Thank me to a Minister for the Environment with whom it is possible to have a political discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1279	I will begin by commending the representative of Christoffersen for an extensive honesty, saying that she is recycling her posts. It may, of course, be practical from one point of view, but it may also, from another point of view, block innovation between debates if one does not change the script and does not allow reality, as presented by other co-representatives, to go into it. Our view is that the ground and ground objection is a negative tool, just as the brakes on a car prevent the car from moving. We're definitely not against brakes on cars, but it also has to be a gas pedal. That is why we are also concerned with this KS report, which shows that every time opposition is used – and it is used very often – it delays the planning process and postpones the regulatory plans in the smaller municipalities by one year and in the larger by two years. In the period 2007-2010, objections were raised to between 42 pst. and 54 pst. of the area part of the municipal plan – municipal sub-plans. Included in the notice of objection in the planning process, which also leads to a halt to the proceedings, and objections raised during consultation and public oversight, were raised in almost all municipal planning processes for the period 2007–2010. It gives you a slightly different picture than what's been done here today, that it's just 1 pst. of the plan items ending in the Ministry of the Environment for final decision. There is probably so much the threat of using objection that stops the process, because the local authority then works to ensure that the case itself does not go completely into lockdown. So it's going to be a little bit like an armed banker: it's maybe a very small percentage of cases where there's a release shot -- it's for whoever's out on illegal errands to show up the weapon to get him to act the way you want. In addition — and this is also the debate that has taken place at a later stage — it may not be the number of opponents that is crucial, but it is very often, as the KS study also shows, that they behave unwelcomely. That's what we as legislators have to intervene in, and see that if it develops an administrative practice that is not consistent with the wish of an overall increase to raise objections, we expect the Council of State to be proactive and not go into complete trench defence for a system that prevents housing. So we have been specifically informed that a number of housing projects, which contain thousands of thousands of homes in Lier, Namdal, Fana, Bergen and Heggedal, have been put on hold precisely because of the unwise use of the opposition institute. It has to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1291	It is possible to replicate to the previous speaker that it might not only be the representative of Christoffersen who should renew his posts. Maybe that's what the previous speakers should do. The municipal committee travels a lot around the country, and that's right: we've got a lot of calls, and many municipal politicians have addressed the problem they're saying they're experiencing, that they're being run over by state authorities on regulatory issues. But we also have experience that when we engage in dialogue on these issues, there is also a lack of awareness and a lack of knowledge in many places, both local, regional and regional elected peoples, and administration, about the possibilities and limitations of the plan law. There is simply a lack of knowledge about how the law should and should be practised. I agree with the previous speakers that what KS mentions and documents in its report on the lack of legal frameworks for the practice of the plan part of the Planning and Building Act, should not occur. We have to put an end to that. I am very pleased that the Council of State has taken it in and has announced that we are already carrying out such a review. There is no one in this room who likes unnecessary state objections. I must also be allowed to comment on some of the other speakers. The representative Skumsvoll said here from the pulpit that no one knows better than municipal politicians how to dispose of the land. It's a statement I disagree with. In the next sentence he was busy talking about national parks, and most of the national parks here in the country had not been created by local politicians. Many have been introduced because the nation and the national community have needed to protect some values. Sometimes, I know from my own municipality, this goes beyond local interests. That is why this is a close interoperability between national, regional and local authorities with elected representatives at each level. It's about balancing interests. Area is a scarcity resource, and around a scarcity resource, there will always be a struggle for the good. Then it's claimed that thousands of thousands of homes are waiting because there's a further objection. Yes, it is possible that this is true, but you could have planned within the general plans, because it is fortunate that most housing projects in this country are carried out because the plans are approved. There's something about how to take advantage of this locally. Then it's the representative Solute flour that makes some clarifications, which I have requested from the Right in many of the debates that have been. He addresses the objections to be removed. He's called the Directorate of Nature Management, and he's called the County. Then I assume that it is the possibilities that the Right will remove, and take it with me in the further debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1309	Initially, I agreed on everything except the conclusion of the representative Rudihagen. Bringing together all the 26 main bodies that can raise objections, to speak with one voice – that's clearly what's important. We're more concerned with the county than the county council, because in the county municipality it's politicians who ultimately decide the matter, so that's a political dimension. I also think that the signals we received from the Council of State were very positive in the sense that one should look at the threshold. The problem in the states today is that there is no threshold. There's the smallest drop. You can go to West Agder, where I'm well known. I have been doing this for 25 years, both as a politician and as an employee – as a technical manager, etc. – so I know this very well. There is no justification for many of the measures. It's said: forbidden, you shouldn't do that, you can see it from the road, biodiversity, etc. The last thing that happened in Flekkefjord was that mowing land that would be re-grown in five years had to be protected. What's coming are reasons that no sober and thinking people can understand. I hope that the Council of State will deal with the statesmen. We had a debate here a few years ago with Erik Solheim, the predecessors of the Council of State on the environmental protection side, and he said: No, this law was perfectly clear. Nothing had to be built in the beach zone if it could prevent people from staying there and moving there. Obviously, that's right. But then Solheim said that small things that are built on a cabin or annex are trouble-free. When I then sent a written question about when this message was to be referred to the statesmen, I received a ambiguous answer. You have to let the statesmen know what is justified, and what is not. That is where the biggest problem lies today, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1318	Now this is a problem that has been addressed in this room before. The dividing lines between position and opposition are the same as they were before. The position requests a large degree of plan management, centrally adopted plan management, in planning and building processes. The opposition – at least the Progresspath – wants one to have local people's elected right of self-determination. Now, when officials break into local democracy, it is not just an intervention in local democracy. There is also an intervention that leads to poorer decisions. We are overconfident that it is the local people who are in contact with the inhabitants of the municipality – contact with the grassroots – who are best able to decide municipal plans and control plans. And of course, when one has a large office that spends a lot of time following local democracy, what local politicians spend time on, it creates a big bureaucracy and a huge resource-loss of these agencies that fit the municipalities. But of course, this also creates a huge bureaucracy and resource loss in the municipalities that are forced to respond to these attacks from e.g. Countess. I am pleased that the government party now recognizes that it may be an abuse, and that one after seven years of government will find that it is time for a review. That's very good. I thought he should have come a long time ago, but of course it is better late than never. But here it's urgent, at least to get something done. We've shown that we want to get an administrative court. Then there are some who are trying to pretend to be an administrative court as well as operating on their own, without any control. But an administrative court must always adhere to the law in force when deciding a dispute or a misdemeanour in such matters. This is a problem that we're busy with. One also has figures that the municipal plans will be met with countersigns or countersigns in 94 pst. of cases. Then it is clear that it is as much the County Council's municipal plan as the local democracy's municipal plan. This is something we're going to record over and over again. Lise Christoffersen has to be prepared to keep his post several times, because here we're not going to get through until we get through.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1335	I can enjoy both the representatives Christoffersen and Tetzschner and others that there are still those who have enjoyed their posts, because one has not heard them so many times. I am one of them – I think there have been many good contributions to the debate. First, I have to comment on one thing, because the representatives of Skumsvoll and – not least – Grimstad said that this Document 8 was raised to debate. Then the representative Grimstad went on and said he was strongly critical of the use of the counterinstitution to enter into dialogue with the municipalities. I understand that one is critical of such a use for getting into dialogue, but then it must be possible to say that there might be reason to ask questions about the practice of the Progress Party of using legislative proposals in the National Assembly to come into dialogue or to have a debate. I hope that this is not the default, that you have to use legal proposals to get into dialogue with others, but that they are used to change the laws, and that it is then so thought that you don't have to change the setting for 12 hours, as they said. What got me to draw was two elements that I wanted to record. The first is that characteristics are used, such as that the problem of the counterinstitution is not always the contradictions themselves, but the threats about it, the possibility that it can be used. Well, at the same time, I would say that as long as it happens within the framework of the law, one of the points is that there should be a sanction that allows municipalities to adhere to national legislation, to override legislation, in their exercise of land policy, and usually in most cases not to be contradicted, but to do so in some cases. There is one of the hubs you have for a local land policy that is in line with the part in this hall here in Stortinget. I would also like to mention that one should take seriously what the Right Party and the Progress Party say about the theme they want to tighten strongly on – the beach zone, wind farms, national parks, etc., if we are to have local administration of national parks, we should not have national management of the beach zone, of the development of renewable energy. I think there's a reason to ask serious questions about whether we really think we shouldn't have a strong national policy in those areas. Finally, it might have been a good comparison to say that the planes are the gas and the opposite is the brakes. The question is, is it a good idea to weaken the brakes to make the car move forward? Well, I don't think so. I think it's a good engine, a good driver, and brakes that actually work when you need them, and they're used when you're going to use them, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1348	At the right, it is often tactically wise to hang on a wave of discontent, where often the party of progress is the one who most clearly surfs on such waves. This is also the case in today's debate. The right surfer on the same wave of dissatisfaction for so little in the stillness to pull towards the end – ‘Annexed to the protocol’, proposes the right today. Earlier this fall we discussed the Innst. 56 S for 2012–2013, on measures for increased housing construction. There, the right proposed the following legislative change in terms of the law that the Right today says they are so much dissatisfied with: they did not propose any change to raise objections to national, important issues, if they are challenged or threatened. The right also says that one should keep exactly the same wording as today in relation to a significant regional role. So the only slight change proposed by the Right in that case and in that debate is that one should remove the small security mechanism that can also raise objections ‘essentially relevant to the subject matter of the body concerned’. If a call to the Ministry of the Environment gets the idea that this is a law provision that has hardly been used in practice. So the Right essentially, if we see what the Right promotes formally, exactly the same thing as our Council of State, that here there's a need, as it's often right to do, that one goes through current practice critically to see if it's possible to get improved practice. It's actually the Right Position in the case, really, if we don't listen to what's being said, but see what the Right Actually does in matters like this. So I'm very surprised that so few mention the regional level, because we all know that the major challenges in society are planned to be at the supranational level, for example. in the Oslo region. Suffering from a dramatic decrease in the number of municipalities in Norway, there will never be a municipality called the Oslo region. One will not reduce today's 55 municipalities to one municipality. So there is a need for planning at the supranational and regional level. There we have red-green, and I also believe the Christian People's Party, the offensive, a good answer: a regional political actor who is directly elected, who takes responsibility for operating offensively good regional planning – that's the engine, we have the answer, while the Right and Advance Party have tried to remove the entire county municipality, the Progress Party will even remove the County, create a regional-level void, where regional or over-municipal planning is to take place. I'm very happy I belong to the red-green fraction when we discuss planning and objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1359	I agree with my party trap Aksel Hagen that Right-wing protests for all the world, but follows the path. But I do not, in fact, agree that the Right Option is the same as that of the Council of States, namely, improvements in the practice of objecting. To the right, with Tetzschner, it rejects it as a method. He has the problem that he does not go into the solution of the Progress Party to completely discard the opposition institute, but it is argued this way. Here, it's ironized by Tetzschner that everyone thinks that exactly what they're doing is of national importance. If we expect objections to be about something other than an intense desire to demonstrate power to municipalities, the Right is left with a problem: they say nothing about what national interests they think will give up. The progressing party has said that they don’t think the bio diversity is interesting, nor do they think the beach zone is interesting. At least we have received answers to some national interests that they believe should give way. So Tetzschner says that the threat of objection is like an armed robbery where the gun is not being used. It's a comparison. Another comparison could be: as a law that violates the law leads to consequences. That is what should be the basis for avoiding objections, namely that the municipalities know in which areas they, for example. can plan dwellings and try to avoid doing so, as the project I mentioned in Vestfold on the plan portal, with the great aim of not raising objections in Vestfold. I don't have to mention which statesman is in charge of that particular work, and who has the faith that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1368	The representative Gjermund Hagesetter said that this debate had clarified the lines of division, and that the position wants central plan management, while the opposition wants local elected self-government. Yes, it's at best a very simplification of the situation. It's even wrong. First of all, we want a local electoral right of self-determination. That's why the municipalities have their own authority to adopt municipal land plans. That must be the starting point. But it is also true that a municipality cannot, of course, do things that go too far beyond a neighbouring municipality and that go beyond regional or national interests, without the outside interest being allowed to say so, have the possibility of intervening and being involved in and influencing the final outcome. That's why we have to have this institute, so that in some cases one has the ability to intervene if what a municipality does becomes very unimaginable in relation to other considerations. But when you look at the number of contradictions, you see that this has evolved negatively. I think that the starting point for municipalities is not just to take care of their own interests; they take care of their neighbours as far as possible. That's why I think it's absolutely right that we go through whether this system can work in practice. Here's a potential for improvement. I'm very pleased with what the Council of State points to here, that it's coordinating the state interests. Once again, different governmental authorities have different opinions and contradictions, based on different bases. The state acts like a troll with many heads, there are many who claim. So this trying to coordinate the state's interests when it comes to this is really important. The second is — as also pointed out by the Council of State — to withdraw those who are in conflict, as early as possible in a planning process. A concrete example we have in Hedmark and Uppland now, is a management plan for the wild reindeer tribe in the Rondane-Silenkladet. Here, at least, the municipalities and county councils, which have now had a long process of this, claim that they have invited the counties to be present at an early stage, without feeling that the county officials have shown interest and commitment to be involved, but come later with a contradiction. Here things could probably be solved along the way. Speaking of which, she made a clear distinction. I'm very uncertain about what it is Progress Party thinks. Progress party representatives proposed to remove the institute, now they will reduce it. What do they mean by an administrative court? Should he not take national interests into account? What is the basis for such a court of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1383	I assume that there was a rash of a so-called Freudian glitch when the Council of State, Solhjell, said that we must object as a penalty possibility. Penalties in this context are penalties. So it's punishment you're looking for if there's disagreement between the state and the municipality. Then I think you really need to change your mindset. It is possible to discuss where the role-sharing between the level of local government and the specific state interests is going – which is often not at political level but at the level of the sector in bureaucracy. Having heard Mr Solhjell's and Mr Hagen's and Mr Aegean's interpretations of the Right's view, I think I should just clarify why we are voting in favour of our own proposal to attach the proposal to the Minutes. We've never been in favour of removing the possibility of opposition from County State. If you have sensible, wise people – and we have that in some places, which was also mentioned as an example in the debate – that sticks to the grounds of the law, it is nothing better than that. That's our point, too. The objection must be limited to important and fundamental issues where there are conflicts of interest. It must be clear, verifiable and on the basis of which the opposition authority is exercised. There must be a better definition of the circumstances in which objections may be raised, with clearer criteria for when objections may be raised. Then we need to have better control over how bureaucracy exercises the opposition authority. It is the responsibility of the Council of State, inter alia: to ensure that this happens so that the law is practised as intended by the Storting. It will then be better to have other mechanisms to resolve disagreements between municipalities and authorities responsible for national and important regional considerations. We have also proposed in other contexts – but it can also be used here – to use an independent dispute resolution body between the State and the municipality, but of course limited to trying out the basis of jurisdiction. It was asked by Rudihagen what such a dispute resolution or court should do. Of course, they should interpret the law as the Stortinget has adopted it, that is legal norms. What is the advantage of court proceedings is that it should not interfere with political judgement, but adhere to the state’s own legal norms, as enshrined in Norwegian law. Then we also want what is being objected to today to be given more as planning advice. We don't ignore the fact that many people have a point when, in the best sense, they get involved in the planning of the municipalities, but you can choose a different slope than the one that's sharpest. In fact, advice can be provided without blocking the entire planning system and delaying it through endless bureaucratic processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1396	I think it's important to assume what the institution of objection actually is. There is agreement that municipalities should be able to determine their area. If we are to uphold that principle, we need to have a system to safeguard national and regional interests, a safety valve to ensure that these interests can be maintained, while at the same time maintaining the local authorities' ability to control themselves. We cannot have it so that the individual municipality places the E18 at each end of the municipality, so that the E18 is not linked. It may not be the case that municipalities are sovereign to make assessments without state considerations. I'd say there's something right in the criticism that's being raised against the opposition institute, and it's important that we get a review. KS has documented that the institute is sometimes practised in a critical way, but the KS report also says something more. It says that the Institute has an important function, and that it has great legitimacy in the municipalities. The representative, Mr Hagesett, makes it clear that the Progress Party is on the side of local democracy, while the government parties will be central to government. It is tempting to remind the representative Hageseter of the policy of the Progress Party in the planning of major road projects. There is no attitude of the Progress Party that the municipalities should govern or that the Objection Institute should respect national interests. No, the State regulatory plan is the Progress Party's response. If there is something that helps to overcome local democracy, it must be that the state – without listening to the municipalities – makes decisions. Otherwise, I am pleased that the representative Tetzschner is engaged in residential construction. In his and my common home municipality, Oslo, the distance between the number of dwellings being built and what is needed is very large. At the same time, there is perhaps the lowest proportion of state objections in the country. So I would like to know from the representative Tetzschner whether he sincerely believes there are state objections and not other factors that prevent housing in Oslo. Finally, I have been in many debates on this lately. I think it's like an echo of the debate that the answer is objections – but what was the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1409	Of course, it should not be such that all municipalities should be able to powder national guidelines and Norwegian law by referring to local discretion. But the municipalities must be able to use more discretion in local matters than we see today, where one has a good overview. There has also been a circular script, which has been called here, which says: ‘The right of objection bodies are assumed to exercise great caution in overseeing the local authority’s political judgement.’ The question is, when will this clear signal get a real content, when more than nine out of ten things meet with contradictions? The representative Aksel Hagen calls it dissatisfied surfing. Well, that's a big dissatisfaction. There is also great dissatisfaction among local politicians in the SV, because they feel that they are being countered, they are not being respected, and local discretion is often completely ignored. So the answer from SV's representatives here is that here in the house one sees it so much better than locally. And that's also the way the "objections" are used – or what we call contradictions. This will be used to get into dialogue. There are, of course, other ways of getting involved in dialogue than using contradictions. It's like telling the neighbor to the police that he hasn't cut the fence and the basis is that someone wants to get into dialogue. When I hear the debate today, it is obvious that there is a bad – if anyone – dialogue between the red-green representatives and their community level. There's a lot of activity from SV in particular. But is there a bad conscience for using contradictions that do?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1424	I will not withdraw this debate any longer than is necessary, but I must say that I am responding to the fact that the representative Sivertsen can go up to the pulpit here and claim from the post I had, that the Right argued for a general removal of contradictions from the County and the Directorate of Nature Management. Then the representative Sivertsen could not have gotten what we're talking about. Elles gave the representative Michael Tetzschner a thorough introduction to what is right's view tied to contradiction, and maybe the representative Sivertsen should read a little more thoroughly through it, so he wouldn't come up with that kind of statement again. I have taken up a local case from the municipality of Flora, in my home country, which I think is a bad example of state overtramp, in view of the over-testing of a municipality's decisions in the form of a regulatory plan, but also a gross abuse of power against landowners who want to create a regulation plan built on municipal plans to build up a small cabin area, which may actually be involved in cleaning up their relations further forward. I asked questions to the Council of State in this matter, because I react very strongly to the way both the municipality and the private landowners are handled. I note that the Civilombodsmann is also very critical of the handling this matter has been given by the Ministry of the Environment regarding anchorsaka, where the Ministry of the Environment rejected the regulatory plan that this was about. When it comes to feelings: in such cases, the Right reacts when it comes to wrong. We will continue to respond to this both when it comes to the state's over-testing of local populace in the municipalities and when it concerns individuals, when their opinions, intentions and wishes are over-tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1433	Many people think that love is often situational. In any case, there is no doubt that the crush of the Progress Party is very situational. Where Kommune-Norge does not do as the Progress Party likes, the Progress Party says: more state. With regard to all the provision of services in Kommune-Norge, the Progress Party in the municipal budget debate says that the State will take over, the inhabitants will have a right, the state will pay to fulfil that right. Municipality-Norway is being parked. Where the state doesn't like the Advance Party, the Progress Party suddenly says, "No, we're now falling in love with the municipalities." So when the state refuses to build in the beach zone, it's very important that it's the municipality you're in love with, and that a city let the municipality do what it wants. It's more undecided in terms of the right hand side. In the church, education and research committee, in which I was in the past – and I was in the budget debate in that context also now in the autumn – the Right is also very happy in the state. Then the council and the government are clearly informed that there is a need for more state and less municipality – more control, more supervision, perhaps so far that municipalities that do not do their job, for example. in the case of measures against bullying, penalties shall be imposed. So there's obviously also a situational relationship from the Right to Municipality-Norway. So to this with the court: the last thing that has been said here suggests that really it is meant that the court should be an appeal after everything else in and of itself has been implemented as it is today, and then one should finally be able to check if one has stayed inside or outside the law. This suggests that the Right Party and the Advance Party still need the systems and processes that we have today, and then the Court in case comes up with as an addition – at least this is how I interpret the last posts here. So two things in the end -- the first thing I've said many times before. I think one should be a little careful with unambiguously asking for a coordinated state. I know that many municipalities are a little uncertain about whether they want a coordinated state, in the sense that one will meet a violent, state-conclusion apparatus. Perhaps it is much more right for a country to meet which is just saying that in agriculture we end up on one type of conclusion, in terms of environmental protection, another type of conclusion, and then this is to be decided by a political body and not by a state that hits it all. It's a way to keep the political in this situation, so I look forward to the Ministry of the Environment's further work on it. So back to this with planning: let's bet on more competence and more capacity in our planning processes. Then it will happen as in the Stavanger region, one will largely not come out with any objections at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1446	It was for the representative Tetzschner's first post. We have been largely involved in the same debates on the opposition institute, and if the representative Tetzschner has joined in, he may have seen or heard that my posts have had a slightly different theme, but with the same conclusion. Yesterday, for example. coordination of land and transport policy, but the conclusion is the same: we want popular governance throughout the planning cycle at all public levels. Even I was a little surprised by the article from Tetzschner, because I have a feeling of being written a little bit about yesterday. Yesterday, one of Tetzschner’s statements was that national expectations for local and regional planning were contrary to the ‘spirit of local self-government’, but today I understand that Tetzschner really agrees with us that there is a need for a review of practice, not primarily a restriction on access to appeals. With regard to the posts of the representative, Mr. Hagesetter claims that it is the local elected representatives who are in contact with the grassroots and who always know best. But what about situations where the interests of two municipalities stand steep against each other? Many local examples have been used in this debate, which is difficult to answer, but one of Tetzschner's examples is just about something that I know a lot about: Lier Municipality's plans for housing on Lierstranda. So it's an area bordering on the municipality of Drammen, which has significant port interests in the same area, and port and dwelling is basically a very poor combination, especially if you have ambitions to operate port operations 24 hours a day. There are also regional aspects to the small conflict between the municipality of Lier and the municipality of Drammen, among others. heavy business interests and a question of getting more of transport across from road to sea, so it also contains important environmental aspects. Government objections to that conflict have now actually contributed to the dialogue between the two municipalities, but with the right approach, that conflict would have ended in a administrative court, where one municipality had been given the right, and the other had not received the support. Today it seems to be an amicable solution, where both municipalities give and take, and where one finally gets a solution that benefits the entire community of both municipalities, which is bordering on each other in an area where the land conflicts have been large for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1455	It is an important matter that is on the agenda today. I want to see it a little bit in perspective. When I started in politics in the 1980s, not to mention when I started in the municipal administration of youth in the 1960s, the municipalities were allowed to organize themselves, and they were allowed to plan local democracy and practice it for the people of the village or the city in which they lived. Today, there has been a severe restriction on that. The limitation has actually become so great that when I left as rapporteur almost four years ago, there were many who expressed to me that it is soon not interesting to be a local politician anymore, because no matter what you do, it should be sent to the County Council for an opinion, and then it will come back with a remark that either you go against it or you want a dialogue on it. Dialogue is okay, but the problem is that one goes against it based on a state regulation. We agree, of course, that national guidelines are necessary, but must they be similar throughout the country? Our country is so different, and it has to be different and it is going to be different – as people are different – and then it has to be allowed for a legally elected democratic body to decide a little about its own issues. We are so lucky in Nord-Trøndelag that we've got a county that was in this room until almost four years ago, which understands a good deal of local adjustments in the county, so we've had relatively less objections in recent years. I stress that the person is even from SV, and I am pleased that we have received such a countenance. Around the country else, we have great limitations, and this leads to a shift from the countryside to the cities in particular, which may not stop immediately, and it is speeded up by taking power from those who live especially in the smaller municipalities. I'm very strongly opposed to that. Aksel Hagen says that maybe a political decision could be made on this. Yes, if you had done that, there would have been someone quite different, but it's not today, it's the bureaucrats who rule the minds of the politicians, and it's a very unfortunate development. As a boy, when I grew up, I remember we made some forest roads, and we did different things. Part of ownership is soon to be completely gone. There are others who decide what to do with your property, or what to do in the municipality. It's a very unfortunate development. So, although I do not agree with all the proposals that the Progress Party has here, I think it is absolutely necessary that this regime be reviewed so that local democracy can be revitalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1466	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1469	To the representative of Kristoffersen, I can say that we want a review, but this will lead to a restriction when it is said in the future that only § 5-4 of the Plan Act is the basis for raising objections. What really made me ask for the floor was the challenge of the representative Haugli, who put great emphasis on the fact that there were not so many formal objections in Oslo. That's right, but it's threatened with that, and so the effect is the same. As an example from Oslo, one might have thought of the extremely free-going rickshaw, which has thus stopped an entire urban development project and actually also had a political review of Oslo City Council on its own discretionary basis. He has even threatened with objections to future regulatory plans, in order to re-examine previous regulatory plans. It's the abuse of objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1478	I understand that I have perceived the representative Solute flour in a way that the representative Solute flour has not intended to express himself, because I thought the representative was in favour of the county council losing its right of objection, and that the Directorate of Nature Management should do the same. Then a question hangs again, for at the latest in Innst. 56 S for 2012–2013 thus promoted the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party together a proposal asking the government to propose measures to limit the right of objection to state authorities that are inhibiting housing and local freedom of action. It was the case of measures for increased housing construction. But the question remains: what national and regional considerations is the Right want to remove? What are the national and regional considerations that should not give the Community, the nation or regional administrative authorities the opportunity to raise objections? What is it that you want to get away from? Because we agree that a practice that is not in line with the current law is not fair and that we should have it gone. Right will obviously go further, but they won't say how much longer they'll go. Then I'm also a little surprised by the strong conflict dimension that the Progress Party and the Right put up between the local freedom of action and the state and regional authorities. The production that the government parties are not occupied by local freedom of action is, as several have mentioned, not true, it is not at stake. We have a law that gives the municipalities regulatory authority, but we have some mechanisms to intervene when the regulatory authority comes across other burdensome regional or national considerations. For example, we have municipalities in my area, between the municipality of Bodø and the municipality of Saltdal, where the municipalities have a very different view of a matter, where the municipality of Saltdal promotes objections to the municipality plan. Nor has it been claimed by some in this debate that most plans are being met with objections, on the contrary. Most plans go smoothly through without any objections. So it's like some plans, approx. One third — it varies slightly from year to year — are met by objections or notices of objections. Then you sit down around a table, solve the conflicts and find balanced solutions for the benefit of the community, it's either a community, a regional or a national community and the considerations here. That's the way it has to be. It has to be a practice where we find the best solutions that we've earned over time. It may not be possible for some to be allowed to override other interests. It is not worthy of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1487	When it comes to what Eirik Sivertsen said about the fact that the red-green plural was also for local democracy, this is probably the case in theory, but about a chat with local politicians, there is a response to the fact that the last seven years have become more and more regulatory, and that one is more and more bass and bound to national decisions. So if that's how Erik Sivertsen says, that one is busy with this, one has to take it over and simplify the law and make it more up to local authorities – local democracy – to decide individual matters. The reason I took the floor was Aksel Hagen, who was aware that it was situational when the Progress Party was in love with the municipalities. Then he tries to twist it so that we can take all authority from the municipalities when it comes to the basic welfare services in the municipalities. So now, care for the elderly and other basic welfare services in municipalities are required by law. It is legal from this room that the municipalities have a responsibility for it. But it doesn't come with money, and that's what we've been saying, that there should be a need-driven government funding of basic welfare services. But, of course, municipalities should be responsible for these services, even if they are financed by the state. By getting government funding, all of these services will be secured, regardless of whether a cage is in a poor or rich municipality. This is something I've repeated over and over again, and I'm prepared, to the extent that I'm forced to repeat it several times, because there are certainly several of the red-greens that won't understand this system. The representative Lise Christoffersen pointed out that local politicians do not always know best. It may be that there are exceptions, but I think it's the local politicians who have contact with the locals in the municipality, it's the people who have contact with the grassroots, and it's the ones who have the best intentions to make good decisions. Then, of course, it can happen, as the representative Lise Christoffersen points out, that two municipalities can stand against each other and have different interests in a single matter. That is when we in the Progress Party want an administrative court – to resolve such a dispute. Of course, an administrative court must adhere to the law in force, in the same way as other courts must adhere to the law enacted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1498	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1501	Had the representative Hagen and Egeland read the proposal of the Progress Party, they would have seen that it stands ‘limited’. Both of them say that we want to abolish the right of objection of the county council and the county council. We want to limit it; it's black on white on my paper. With regard to what we want in the central regulatory and planning work, the members of the Right and the Advance Party say: ‘These members will therefore strengthen local autonomy. These members consider that the country's use of objection must be limited to where it is absolutely necessary for reasons of general national interest.» That's where it's sung. Whatever comes out, they have to object if something is ten meters from the sea, from a lake or a river. So if we could get a higher threshold -- half a meter instead of a centimeter, as it is today -- it might be possible that it could work fine with the right of objection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1513	The representative Aksel Hagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1517	First a few words to Skumsvoll that the Progress Party will limit the right of objection of the county and county council. In other debates and in other matters, the Progress Party will put down the County and County Communities, so the two bodies have already been put down by the Progress Party in a debate just a few days ago. So to Tetzschner: Putting this into use with the brake/engine concept. Text and speech interpretation is a difficult sport. Here's my version of the Right Position. If we look at the brake: purely formally, the right does not want to change the law, but they want a practice review, just like the red-green ones. The main problem for the Right is that the Right destroys its engine. Michael Tetzschner has had posts in this room, and he only talks about the local and local authorities. He does not mention regional plan and regional planning at all. At best, by removing the county municipality, regional planning will only take place at an inter-municipal level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1524	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1527	A question to the representative Hagesetter: if one municipality wants a port and one municipality wants a dwelling, what law will a court use to decide which municipality will have a right and which will have to surrender? At the end of the day, I just want to remember that the Storting in the new Planning and Building Act has actually adopted two things to get rid of what could sometimes be experienced as a resource-consuming and undemocratic practice, with objections late in the proceedings – often across the board – so that a poor municipality could feel locked, no matter what you did. In new sections 3 to 2, all objectors have received both the right and the obligation to participate actively in planning that affects their territory, and in new sections 5 to 5 it is decided that the right to promote objections lapses if the obligation of early participation has not been complied with – provided that the municipality has done its duty and notified the relevant bodies at the start of planning. Now Solhell is going to follow that practice and fix things.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1536	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1539	It's strange to see the right-wing representative Hagen and his description of the realities. I would like to wish we were able to do this, that we were already at the goal of the Progress Party and had managed to bring down the county council. But we haven't done it that far. The representative, Erik Sivertsen, tells us that most of the cases will be resolved. Then I have to ask if this representative is in this world. One can prove that nine out of ten cases meet contradictions. Has he not come to realize that KS – the municipalities’ organisation – also has a problem with this relationship and says that this is not good enough? Local self-government is being overestimated to an excessive extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1546	The representative Gjermund Hageseter has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1549	The representative Lise Christoffersen is trying to construct a conflict between two municipalities in a thoughtful example, where the construction of a port in a municipality will exclude the construction of a dwelling in another municipality, or vice versa: the construction of a dwelling in a municipality will exclude the construction of a port in another municipality. I find it hard to imagine that conflict of interest, but if such a conflict of interest arises between two municipalities, I am totally overconfident that an administrative court will be much, much better able to decide such a conflict than the county office is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1554	In any case, the time saved was used to the full. The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1559	The party's belief in the legalisation of politics knows no bounds! But I asked for the floor because the representative Grimstad was in doubt if I was in this world. It's obvious -- here I am, so I guess we're in the same world. However, the figures I refer to relate to the statistics from 2011 that show that it was promoted approximately. 2 300 regulatory plans. Beyond 700 of them, objections were raised. So 26 of them went to the department. This means that approx. 700 were solved over the table during the conciliation and discussion between state, regional and local authorities. But I don't know where the representative Grimstad has his numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1566	There may be a little bit of divided opinions about whether our world is the same as reality, but more have not been tempted to ask for the word to cause no. 4, and the debate on the matter is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1580	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and up to 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1589	The majority will now consider a proposal on requirements for Russian authorities concerning the purification of Norilsk Nickel in Russia. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that in this case we have a common view of the situation, whether we are in position or in opposition here at Stortinget. This is what the option will look for. I see that there is a proposal from the Progress Party on the table today to promote concrete demands to the Russian authorities for clean-up. In fact, I thought it was clear that this was well-managed by the government – continuously. I am pleased that so many people have a focus on this problem, and that everyone is concerned about what can be done to reduce and stop this pollution. It is important for the government to have people in their backs when they are going to face up to the Russian authorities, and that it does so in a way that at the same time ensures a good neighbourhood between our two countries. The Committee has recently been travelling in this area in Russia, and it has given us good knowledge of this difficult matter and of where the matter is now. Here the County of Finnmark and our Consul General in Murmansk have also provided the Committee with important knowledge of the matter. Cross-border pollution is difficult and, in the case of pollution from nickel production, this is a particularly difficult issue, also for the neighbouring relationship between our two countries. As pointed out by the proposers, pollution remains unacceptable. Large areas are contaminated with heavy metals and are therefore a very major environmental problem. The government expresses disappointment that on the Russian side so far little willingness has been shown to take real action in a matter that means so much to all those who live in these border areas. Nevertheless, it is reported that there have been some improvements in the fact that emissions of sulphur dioxide have been greatly reduced since they peaked in the 1980s. A number of measures have been taken to reduce emissions, and at the same time they have shifted to more low-sulphur ores. There is reason to be satisfied that the government has systematically addressed the matter with the Russian authorities in a clear and clear manner. The matter has also been raised by our Prime Minister to the Russian President in 2010, where a joint declaration was made, among other things. concluded that this pollution must be reduced to a level which does not harm the health and environment of the border area. This is a declaration that is further worked on through a dialogue between the Norwegian and Russian authorities. In this case, I would like to point out that there is only dialogue that will take place. It is therefore important that the dialogue continues and that there is still a high level of pressure on the case from the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1617	First of all, I would like to raise the proposals of the Progress Party, in which we ask the government to make concrete demands to the Russian authorities for the clean-up of emissions from Norilsk Nickel in Nikel and Zapoljarny. I also ask for a separate vote on the proposals of the Progress Party. I refer to the letters from the Ministry of the Environment and the Council of State to the Committee on this matter, which stress that the cross-border pollution from nickel production on the Russian side of the border is a very difficult issue in environmental cooperation with Russia and a burden in good neighbourly relations. The Council of State stresses that this is a matter in which all Norwegian governments have followed a clear and consistent line based on broad political consensus. Furthermore, the Council of State says that it is a high priority for the government to find solutions that take care of health and the environment in the border area. Our neighbour relationship with Russia is good. It is based on a people-to-people cooperation, but Norway has been fully aware of the pollution from the Russian side since 1974 until today. If, as the Council of State claims, both the government of today and the former governments have given this matter a high priority, I wonder about the priorities of the Ministry of the Environment. 38 years have passed, and nothing has happened. It says a lot about the priority. However, emissions of sulphur dioxide and heavy metals are too high and emissions are still 100000 tonnes per year. If I see the Council correctly in its answer, Norway will understand the problem that Petjenganikel is the largest taxpayer in Murman County. The Progress Party is much more concerned that the municipality of Sør-Varanger is not being used as a garbage dump – the municipality is at risk of being exposed to irreparable pollution damage. Do we need to understand the problem of Petschenganikel being the biggest taxpayer? Do you want me to take the council seriously? The two largest owners of Petchengankel, or Norilsk Nickel, are Potanin and Deripaska. Deripaska is the world's 57th richest and good for 61 billion. kr, while Potanine follows four positions at the rear with an estimated property of 59 billion. kr. The owners are rich oligarchs who will only cleanse if the message of cleansing comes from the Russian authorities. The Council of State further claims in its letter: ‘Of course, we have no possibility of putting power behind the requirement of purification’. Now I don't know where the Council of State wants to put power behind it, but there's little doubt that Norway has had countless opportunities to demand concessions from the Russian side in terms of cleaning the emissions. That's where the shoe presses. As a national state, we must promote demands in matters which concern us as much as the emissions of sulphur dioxide and heavy metals de facto do. To give some examples, I keep humanitarian matters out of place: Norway cleans up nuclear-based fireworks both in the Kola Peninsula, in the White Sea and now in the Baltic Sea. Norway built and financed the border station against Russia and financed the roads from the border to Nikel. Norway financed and expanded the mobile coverage, finances, uses and has spent several billion DKK on cleaning up nuclear waste in Andreyev Bay – completely without the national requirement for concessions to clean the emissions of Nikel and Zapoljarny. Over time, we've spent billions of dollars on cleanups and expansions in Russia without the concessions and concessions of the Russian authorities. The Councils conclude in their letter by referring to patience: ‘I feel confident that despite everything, time is working for us in this matter.’ [[...]] The time has already been working towards Norway and South Varanger for 60 years – and has become a very poor ally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1647	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1650	Air pollution has no borders, and unfortunately in Finland we experience significant pollution and acid rain from Russia. The serious environmental pollution in the form of sulphur emissions from the Russian industry in Nikel, just a few kilometres from the Norwegian border, has been on the political agenda in Norway for a long time. On a general basis, emissions of sulphur dioxide and other environmentally harmful substances have decreased as a result of the rapid technological development and closure of old, polluting industries in Central and Eastern Europe, but unfortunately Nikel's pollution remains a problem. The Energy and Environment Committee visited Nikel during a Committee mission in the autumn of 2012 and we could see for ourselves that the plant needs major improvements to avoid this type of harmful emissions. At the same time, the enterprise is a cornerstone enterprise in the region and an important job and source of income for the community. This matter cannot be resolved otherwise than through dialogue with the Russian authorities and a hope that these will eventually put an end to the dispensation of Norilsk Nickel with regard to emissions. The right is pleased with the clear signals from the government and the Minister for the Environment to keep focus on this issue in the future. It is primarily a Russian responsibility to reduce emissions in the Kola Peninsula. A continuous, active policy towards Russia is therefore important in order to implement measures to reduce the sulphur emissions of Nikel. The experience so far has unfortunately not been positive, but we must nevertheless continue to work to get the Russians to follow up on their duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1665	Several have said that the Energy and Environment Committee was visiting Zapoljarny, a few kilometres from the Norwegian border, where we saw Norilsk Nickels Kola. It was frightening to see the dead nature around the city. From Zapoljarny and Nikel huge amounts of sulphur dioxide and heavy metals are emitted. It is, as has been mentioned, a problem that was focused on as early as 1974, when the Norwegian Institute of Air Research, NILU, discovered siblings on the forest in Finnmark. Then the Russians had produced nickel for over 35 years in this area, but the difference was that they now began to use more sulphur-containing ore from Norilsk in Siberia. This gave rise to the action 'Stop the Deadly Clouds of the Soviets' in the 1980s, which resulted in Norway's allocation of 300 million. kr to sewage treatment plants with a hope of reducing emissions by 90 pst. Now, over 20 years later, none of those cleaning systems are in place. The Norilian Nickel Group is – as it has been mentioned – a company with enormous profits. The group would not have problems paying for installations to reduce these emissions – if they wanted to. We can see that the process of delaying money to a sewage treatment plant has not been achieved. That track's closed. Instead, the Russians now claim that heavy metal emissions are within the Russian limits. In the case of emissions of sulphur dioxide — which was at its maximum by 150000 tonnes, five times Norwegian emissions — the company has received a temporary increase in the emission limit value. The problem is – and here we have some relevance to the previous issue of objections – that there are regional authorities in Russia that can grant exemptions for such higher emission limits. Local authorities are probably more dependent on the workplaces in Nikel and Zapoljarny than the Norilian Nickel group is. Now they're talking about reducing to 70 000 tonnes of emissions. It's important to stress that it's also too much. The emissions contaminate groundwater, rivers and lakes and they are carried by air. On the Norwegian side, we experience that the Swedish Food Agency provides dietary advice on eating reindeer meat. For some reason, they don't give diet advice about picking mushrooms and berries, because that's what we do, but they also contain heavy metals. In the Russian regions, the proportion of respiratory diseases is much higher than elsewhere, and life expectancy is also lower. It has also – according to official Russian figures – found more disease in children, more spontaneous abortions and premature births. When we met the Duma in Murmansk, the head of the Environmental Committee spoke about these environmental problems that affect the population. She was a marine doctor and lived in Montsegorsk, where Norilsk Nickel also has an installation, but where they have actually managed to reduce emissions. The Norwegian authorities met with the Russian authorities last summer. The problem has been addressed on many levels. It's important that the pressure is maintained. The fact that we have not reached the track about money for sewage treatment plants does not mean that we start completely on scratch. We are now in a situation where Russia hopes to join the OECD. It would have to mean that Russia accepts the basic principles and guidelines that apply in the field of the environment. Russia is reviewing its own environmental legislation. It would not have been in Norwegian interest to say that we would not contribute to cleaning up the Andrejeva Bay if they would not at the same time receive our money to clean up the sulphur emissions. Then we had two problems instead of one. I can't see that this matter is served by the adoption of the proposals of the Progress Party, but I assume that the pressure is now being held up by the Norwegian authorities, with whom I know they are working a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1682	I'm glad that the proposers address this issue, because the challenge is so great, and because the polluters are simply not acceptable. It is important to bear in mind the many things that have been discussed: All Norwegian governments – both the sitting and previous governments – have been clear in their position on the matter. The political deal in this room is, as I understand it, very wide around the Norwegian position. It has been raised to Russian authorities a number of times and was also a theme when the Committee visited Murmansk Oblast in the fall. Several members of the Committee shall also be congratulated for addressing this issue in a neat and sound manner to the regional authorities of the region. The way up until a solution looks long and curved, but there are some small points of light. The Joint Declaration shows that, at least, Russian authorities also recognise that this has to be done, and that an objector is to collect information on the level of emissions and strengthen control and environmental monitoring in the border area. It's a start, but it's pretty close enough. We are forced to get a clearer understanding from the Russian authorities that, when it comes to both sulphur and heavy metal, it has to go down. This means that the company Petjenganikel cannot be granted the temporary exemptions from the environmental law that are now being granted, which allows them to pollute much more than the ordinary emission permit. So there are Russian authorities that have to make demands on companies to bring down emissions. For the Central Party, this has been a particularly important matter. The centre party's spokesman in South Varanger, Cecilie Hansen, used his first day as a spokesman in Nikel to learn more about the ideas and concerns of this neighboring city, because people are afraid of the consequences of both sulphur emissions and heavy metals, which one is exposed to and what consequences it can have. We must take that very seriously. The relationship between Norway and Russia is generally good, at least compared to what you may have had over time. It provides a good starting point for a dialogue about these questions. At least it should make you understand what you're doing to the Russian authorities. It is quite right that the representative Lars Egeland mentioned, saying that in response to the unexplained situation in Nikel, one should not contribute to nuclear clean-up, would give us two problems instead of one. When, as a nation, we are so clearly committed to the clean-up of nuclear waste, we are also doing so because it is important for Norwegian citizens – not least the inhabitants of the northern part of the country – that they can feel more secure in view of the environmental challenges facing the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1695	First, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers to raise a very important issue for debate here in Stortinget. As pointed out in the proposal, this case has a long history. Pollution from nickelworks in the Kola peninsula became known in Norway in the 1970s, long before – at least a while before – I was born, and the dialogue with the Russians has lasted the same time. As many have experienced, one has even offered financial assistance for the implementation of clean-up measures. Yet little or nothing is done. As many people have experienced, it is almost difficult to understand – when one sees the enormous consequences it has for nature in the areas around – that the Russians are not willing to do more themselves. The emissions of Norilsk Nickel contaminate groundwater, rivers and lakes, as well as the emissions being carried by air. As suggested by the proposal, the proportion of respiratory diseases in the Russian regions is much higher than elsewhere and life expectancy is lower. It has also – according to Russian official figures – found more disease in children, more spontaneous abortions and premature births. In Norway, Clif provides its own dietary council for the consumption of reindeer meat in the Norwegian border area due to heavy metals. I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister for the Environment for the very thorough presentation in the letter of reply to the Committee. I agree with the Council of State that there is no alternative to continuing the dialogue in this matter. The Joint Declaration of the meeting with President Medvedev in Norway in April 2010 provides a good starting point for further work. It is established here that emissions from nickel production at the border are of concern and must be reduced to a level that does not harm health and the environment in the border area. From the Russian side, helping to put in place the necessary measures to reduce emissions – that is good. At the same time, it is not uplifting to see that Russian authorities show so little willingness to put pressure on the owners of the nickel plant to implement clean-up measures. Still renewed exemptions for emission permits and inability to impose requirements on owners for faster emission reductions give rise to concern. Of course, one would also wish that the Russians had given more attention to the cross-border aspect, that emissions also create problems in Norway. I therefore agree with the Council of State that we should probably have some expectations of the opportunities to achieve rapid reductions in the emissions of Petchengankel. However, I believe that the government should continue to address the matter with the Russian authorities through political channels with renewed strength. The Joint Declaration of 2010 should be used to remind Russia that emissions need to be dealt with rapidly. In addition, we hope, as the Council of State also stressed, that we will be helped by Russia joining the OECD and by Russia joining international agreements and conventions. The aim must be to find a solution to the nickel issue, which serves the health and environment of the border area, which promotes good neighbourliness, and which helps to create the best possible cooperation in the north. I support the Committee's position that the proposal should be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1708	The problem with the cross-border pollution from nickel production on the Russian side of the border is and has been a particularly difficult matter. For the government it is a high priority case to find a solution that takes care of health and environment in the border area. The representative's proposal relates to the same issue as the interview with the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, whom I responded to in Stortinget on 17 April this year. In my post I would therefore like to carefully update the status of the case and an assessment of what we should do. Since President Medvedev's visit to Norway in 2010, we have been working hard to follow up the joint declaration of that meeting, where one at the highest level in Russia has recognised that emissions from nickel production in the border areas are a problem, and that Russian governance should help to put in place the necessary measures to reduce emissions to a level that does not harm health and the environment. As part of this follow-up, a meeting of Norwegian and Russian government powers and experts was held in July this year. The company was also well represented. It was quite clear here that although both sides think that they are facing an environmental problem that needs to be addressed, there are different perceptions of how serious the problem is. On the Russian side is one of the most busy emissions of sulphur dioxide, while on the Norwegian side our professionals think that heavy metal is the biggest problem, which gets less attention in Russia. There was a consensus that environmental monitoring in the border area should be strengthened and that information to the local population on the actual environmental situation should be improved. We're now working on following up. Russian government tells us that no one can demand faster reductions than the enterprise's tolerances. It's a cross of thought for me, all the time the company has had a huge surplus in recent years. From the company's side, it has been stated that they aim to satisfy the requirements of the ordinary emission path during 2015, which they do not do today. This is likely to result in emissions of about 70 000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide per year. In view of that, I think we should have a close relationship with the possibilities to achieve rapid reductions in emissions. However, there are some points which suggest that there may be a basis for cautious optimism in this matter: One is the modernisation of the Russian economy, which forces itself because there is a alarming need for the replacement of inefficient and out-of-date production equipment. It also largely applies to the plant in Nikel. The second is the revision of Russian environmental legislation that is in progress and could provide Russia with an environmental law of international standards. The third is that Russia wants to become a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD. A membership here would mean that Russia would have to accept the basic principle as an environmental liability of the OECD. Fourthly, efforts are being made to get Russia to accede to relevant international conventions and agreements in the field of the environment. The signing of such agreements will give Russia the same obligations as Western countries, which will make greater demands for action, including in this matter. I believe that the only dangerous way forward in this matter is an active dialogue with Russian government powers and the group as well as strengthened environmental monitoring. Of course, we have no possibility of putting power behind the demand for reduced emissions, and I don't think we're going to set this case up against other cooperation between Norway and Russia. Norway will continue to address its concerns about the release of Petjenganikel in a clear way to Russian government powers. It will include: shall take place in the Norwegian-Russian Commission for Economic Cooperation, which shall hold its next meeting in February 2013. I have also written a letter to the Russian Minister for Natural Resources and the Environment, Sergey Donskoj, and asked for a meeting with him. We would like to have the best possible dialogue with Russian authorities and share our experience in finding good solutions. However, I would like to stress that it is the Norilian Nickel group and the Russian government that are responsible for emissions coming down to a level that does not harm health and the environment in the border area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1738	In the letter of reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that the Russian company Norilsk Nickel aims to reduce emissions by 2015 to approx. 70000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide. At the same time, the Council of State, and also I, know that Norilsk Nickel has plans to transfer the production of ore from Voronezh Oblast – or Central Russia – to Nikel in the north. This ore contains approx. 25 pst. more sulphur than the local ore. Is it taken into account when disclosing the hope of reducing emissions to 70000 tonnes in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1743	To that I have to answer that I do not know exactly what is included in the calculation of the estimate made against 2015. It is based on assessments from the company itself, and I have to say that I do not know it well enough here and now. But I would like to come back to the representative, Fredriksen, and answer in another form when I get to check the facts, so that he can find out later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1748	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1753	The Committee, as many have mentioned, was travelling in the area and was able to see the extensive damage that these emissions represent. It was terrible to see the dilapidated nature that we saw in the area around there. These emissions do not know any limits, so they also cross on the Norwegian side and affect the environment there. Whether there was a weak or poor economy in the company that was the background to a lack of will or ability to clean up, I might have understood the facts more fully, but what's wrong is that the company is going with billions of surplus – large surpluses annually – and it just lacks will. I must say that I thought it was a strange performance when we met local politicians up there and tried to address this issue at a political level in Murmansk, because a derogation is granted after a derogation, and the problem is allowed to escalate. The point of progress is that you keep pressing on in this case to get a more environmentally friendly solution to this very impending activity, and that this work will be prioritised in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1762	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1778	It was exciting to be involved in negotiating the robberies deal in June 2011, and it was very important that all the parties on the Stortinget join the new deal. On the right, there is a clear objective that this agreement should significantly reduce the level of conflict and that the loss rate for grazing animals should decrease. Unfortunately, it has not been so yet. I think the text of the predatory game deal is a good basis for reducing the level of conflict between predatory game and grazing, but then the administration has to follow up what it says. Unfortunately, not much has changed since the conciliation in this area, nor does anything indicate that the administration has changed the course. For the Right, there are some formulations in the new agreement that are extra important, and that we therefore keep an extra watchful eye on. It is particularly relevant to the wording that it should: «focused on regional governance, respect for ownership and the quality of life of individuals and local communities». The second is that there should be no predatory game representing damage potential, in the priority grazing area for domestic animals and the calving area for domestic animals. These are entirely new formulations in a predatory game settlement, and for the Right, these are clear indications that the predatory game settlement should take greater consideration both for grazing and for those who live in predatory game-loaded areas. The background for this interpellation is both the actual stocking of the southern Sami domestic areas and a question I asked the Council of State in the autumn Question Time about what the Ministry of the Environment has done to meet the point of the predatory game settlement that there should be no predators representing harmful potential, in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and the calving area for domestic animals. The answers I received from the government council were very alarming. The only concrete thing at the time was this one: ‘This implies that in the priority grazing area for domestic animals and the calving area of domestic animals, a low threshold for the authorisation of harvesting of wild game is to be practised in order to prevent damage to domestic animals and domestic animals.’ If much more concrete action is not taken in this debate, there is a major question of the Council of State breaking the rapprochement. I've traveled a lot around the areas with a lot of wild game load in the last few years. I've been in the Nord-Trøndelag at several times, together with co-founder Lars Myraune from Right and local right-wing politicians, to meet representatives of the grazing industry. I have also been in Engerdal and visited the reindeer industries, in teams with grossing-up representatives Gunnar Gundersen and other right-wing politicians. In my view, the situation in the southern part of the country is dramatic. It's such a loss to predatory game that the entire South Saami tambourine operation can go down. It applies both in the North-Trunde and in the rest of the Southern Sámi tamarine regions. Southern Sámi tamrein drift has enhanced protection in both international and national legislation. Both the ILO Convention and the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights refer to indigenous peoples and Norway has joined them. The Ministry of the Environment’s assessment of Article 27 of the UN Convention states: ‘The traditional Sámi nutrition exercise shall be maintained and the central task of the State shall be to ensure this overall in a given area. Restrictive deer management in areas with the Sami outreach industry is an important contribution in this way. Among other things, reference is made to the fact that there should be no wolf in the Sámi tamrein areas and that there is quota-free gaupe hunting in areas covering significant parts of the Sámi outreach industry.» In the roving game agreement, paragraph 2.2.8 states: ‘The necessary measures shall be implemented both within the framework of predator management and reindeer management with a view to ensuring the situation of South Saami domestic reindeer operation.’;» The total barrage in the calving area of the tamrein in the North-Trundelag is too large. There are documented eight young ones of yours – that should be four. There are 11 juveniles of globular globular, which should be six. There is a lot of evidence that the royal eagle population is much larger than it should be. In the case of bears, today there are two young people – it has to be doubled, it has to be up to four. In addition to all this, the county of Nord-Trøndelag has presented a sketch to the predatory game subject where he proposes to change today's youth zone and relocate and concentrate the presence of bears, yews and globes in Inner Namdal – in the middle of the most important calving area. The Council of State must also see that this has dramatic consequences both for the grazing industry and for the south-samian domestic industry. I would like a clear answer from the Council of State as to whether this is the way it should be. In Luru's reindeer pasture district, a reindeer for slaughter was collected last month. With a flock of 1,000 animals it has been common to slaughter about 300 animals – now 96 animals were slaughtered. Without the extraordinary losses, this herd would have been 1 400 animals, and one could have slaughtered 500 to 600 animals, instead of 96. If this continues, there will be considerable economic losses for the industry, as well as sufficient animals to keep the flocks up. The predatory populations in these calving areas of the Nord-Trøndelag are about twice as large as they should be. It has dramatic consequences, especially for the loss of reindeer calves. A reindeer who was part of the NINA project on production and losses before reindeer operations indicates that only 60 pst. of the sims had calf in July. In October it was reduced to 30 pst. This has a major impact on farmed animals, as well as a dramatic economic impact. On Thursday 22 November, there was a big look in the Nation about the NINA project "Calculation of Production" where senior researcher Torkild Tvera claims it is too much pure in relation to the area of the North-Tronde Team. It is a strange claim when you know that it is just above 13 000 reindeer, while it is planned to be about 1 000 reindeer. 15 500 reindeer in this area. In the same article, Reinge Ryan's board of directors rejects these claims. He determines that predators are a much bigger problem than grazing, and that more predators have to be taken out. Although several research projects are being carried out in relation to pure and predatory game, the big question is what to do with the acute situation created by far too large predatory game populations. That is what I am waiting for in this debate. Last time we had the wolf alarm in Elgå reinbeite district. It was observed wolf in the calving area of tamrein. On 28 May, the reindeer wrote letters to the Council of State asking for an emergency meeting to discuss what could be done to stop the wolf killing newborn reindeer calves and what kind of measures could be taken to protect the southernmost southern Sami tamare farms in Norway. Although this was a very acute situation, it went a month before the department answered. The short answer was that, unfortunately, the Council of State could not fit such a meeting into its programme. I have to say it's quite arrogant when you know that there's a call for help in an emergency situation, as well as that the department itself determines that there should be no wolf in this area. Both in July and August, a wolf herd of three - four wolves was observed chasing rein in the same area. Again, a letter was sent from both the reindeer owners and the municipality of Engedal, asking for a meeting to discuss the emergency situation. It was over two months before they received a reply. I strongly react to the arrogant way in which the department manages these southern sammen. I went to Elgang with local right-wing representatives myself at the end of July to get firsthand knowledge of what was happening. It made a strong impression when the reindeer told them what they felt when they knew that there were predators chasing their flocks, and I would really wish that the council could have been there to experience the powerlessness of these reindeer owners on the body. In the same way as in the Nord-Trøndelag, there is also a large predatory force in this area. The Kings also are likely to do great damage in this area. When I was there, I was made aware that the authorities had set up artificial nests for the royal eagle, without the local authorities or the domestic industry being briefed or consulted. I sent a written question to the Council of State in August as to why these artificial eagle nests were set up, and who was responsible for this. I am very surprised that the Council of State can accept that this is happening when it all indicates that the Kings are taking a lot of reincalved. For the Right, it is important to implement the predatory game settlement in an efficient and rational way. In the comments made by the Committee on Energy and the Environment on the budget for the year, the right points to several measures that need to be implemented in order to reduce the losses of grazing animals, such as private/professional pests, and preventative withdrawals of wild game in priority grazing and calving areas for domestic reindeer. At present, only a small part of the damage trap set up by the Directorate for Nature Management or the State will be drawn up. This leads to great frustration from grazing and unnecessary loss of grazing animals. The municipalities are responsible for the damage and it is up to the municipalities to organise this. Right, says that one way to get more effective damage collection is to facilitate the creation of private/professional damage teams where the municipalities want it, and that the legislation needs to adapt to this objective. The laws of nature also open up preventative take-offs of wild game, even if no damage has been done. When there is a clear objective in the predatory game agreement that predatory game should not represent damage potential in priority grazing areas and calving areas, this is an instrument that should be used more frequently. The right and the other non-socialist parties were united about these comments in the committee, but the government parties did not join. I look forward to hearing which state council will come up with concrete measures to follow up important points in the predatory game settlement that predatory game will not represent damage potential in priority grazing area and calving area for tamrein, and to ensure the situation of southern sámi tamrein operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1858	It's a very important issue the representative addresses here. Purgatory is an important bearer of Sami culture, and there is broad political consensus that we should maintain this industry. At the same time, we see that the domestic operations in various parts of Norway – not just in the southern Sami region – are struggling with several problems. There is no doubt that predators are one of the challenges facing the industry, but the number of clean and resource access is also a problem in parts of the industry. If we're going to solve the problems of the Sami reindeer, we're going to need a multi-level effort, including from the industry itself. As the representative refers to, point 2.2.19 of the 2011 Arbitration Agreement: ‘It shall not be predators representing a potential for damage in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and calving areas for domestic animals.’ The agreement also provides for the establishment of the necessary measures, both within predatory management and reindeer management, with a view to ensuring the situation of southern Sami domestic reindeer operations. It is a clear measure that one should be as close to the destination as possible. In administrative region 6, which is Nord-Trøndelag, Süd-Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal, there should be 10 young people of yours, 12 young people of gaupe and 4 young people of bear. For royal eagles, an exact population figure has not been seen, but in the 2004 predatory game agreement it has been said that the population should be kept nationally on what was then considered to be the current level of 850–1,200 breeding pairs. It is the regional predators who lead the geographical differentiation in their predatory wildlife region through the predatory game management plan. In the article, the interpellant sees that the stock of yerv and gloupe is above the level it should be at in the Nord-Trøndelag. I would point out that in region 6, predatory wildlife has distributed the regional stock target at the state level and that the sub-measurements for the different counties are an option that has been chosen. The Ministry’s task in relation to the predatory game settlement is to assess whether the region’s stock target has been achieved as a whole. The latest stock status for gaupa shows that the population has fallen from 26.5 juveniles before hunting in administrative region 6 in 2009 to 14 juveniles before hunting in 2012 – a significant decrease. After several years of high quotas, the population of gaupe has been reduced and is now at – or just above – the stock target, both nationally and regionally, for Middle Norway. In 2012, 13 juveniles of yorks were recorded in region 6, mid-Norway. One of them was captured by exceptional outreachs carried out by the State. So the population is 2 juveniles above the target. Licensing should be the main instrument in the stock management of yours, but we have a challenge in getting the license agreement to be effective in all areas. Where the licensing agreement has not provided for a satisfactory outcome, the Directorate for Nature Management shall consider taking decisions on exceptional withdrawals from your property. This is done based on registrations of you, damage to grazing animals and the names of their priorities. The rough game agreement specifies that there should be a clear difference between the priority grazing area and the priority predatory game area. Nevertheless, in some regions, it is also relevant to take out individuals in areas where predators are a priority. This depends on the stock situation. Difficult weather and track conditions will have an impact on the possibility of taking off your jets, both through licensing and exceptional off-takes. This has been the case, among others. in Nord-Trøndelag west of E6. This is an area that has been a priority for exceptional withdrawals for several years. It is important that predators take account of the loss situation and are geographically specific in the allocation of allowances. Priority shall be given to the calving area for pure, both by decision on exceptional indemnification in the event of emergency damage and by ordinary killing regimes, such as licensing and quota hunting. In the case of royal eagles, the species was included in the surveillance programme for wild game in 2006. King eagle is being monitored today by mapping current and former fence territories across the whole country, based on existing royal data collected from various actors. The initiating screening phase has now been completed in several areas, and from 2013 the royal eagle will be included in the monitoring programme more in line with the other species. In Nord-Trøndelag, a report has recently been prepared by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research on Kings. The number from the report means, among other things. that reproduction in Nord-Trøndelag has been very low between 2009 and 2012. The report also compares the situation with surveys back to 1976 and shows that the royal eagle population in the North Trondelag is likely to have been stable for almost 40 years. The interpellant's question suggests that the loss of tamrein on pasturage has increased dramatically. On the other hand, numbers from the claims settled for loss caused by the predatory game show that the loss to the predatory game has been quite stable in the North-Tronde Team during the last seven reindeer wounds. The 2005/2006 grubbing-up year was replaced by some 2,950 grubbing-up, while some 2,800 grubbing-up was replaced in 2011/2012. I am aware, however, that the South Sami domestic operations are facing major challenges related to predatory game, and it is challenging to find good loss prevention measures that do not conflict with traditional reindeer operations. In 2009, a working group on the reduction of the level of conflict between predatory animals and cleaning operations in Nord-Trøndelag provided a report to the Ministry of the Environment. In the report, a single group shows that there is a great need for knowledge in reindeer operations. There are large differences in losses, which can be difficult to explain with predatory game alone. In order to gain a greater knowledge base and more precise management with lower loss targets, in 2011 the Ministry launched a research project in central Norway, where one investigates the production of reindeer and the loss of reindeer to glope and yerv. One is still in an early phase of the project, but the results of this project and previous project suggest that the variation in the nutrient resource availability for North-Trande plant reindustry affects production significantly through the variation in reindeer and climate. In 2011, it was set at 2 million. NOK 3,5 million was set in 2012; kr to this project. The project will be continued at the same level in 2013, in addition to an increase of 2 million. kr for research, etc. queen eagle. We're looking forward to getting more results from this research. I am prepared to cooperate with the industry and with all those who can contribute to the continuation of the SSR. The 2009 report on the SSR contains many good proposals for action, which I believe can help solve many important problems in the area of nutrition. As we now get better knowledge of different factors affecting nutrition, we will also be able to use the most effective tools, in an interaction between the industry and the authorities. In conclusion, let me say that I attach great importance to following up the robberies deal from the Storting – which I myself was one of the signatories to, and which I know well – and that we have already done on a number of points: there has been a decision here in the Stortingen on the need for dogs, the budget for next year has an increase of 22 million. kr, a number of measures have been taken to follow up the rapprochement. But I also want to continue in close dialogue with the parties, i.e. all the parties in the Storting, and follow up to the best of my ability, and then keep the parties informed about the different challenges we were going to face in meeting the conciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1899	Given that we have asked some of the same questions in the past, in another question hour, I might have expected a little more clear answers from the Council of State with regard to effective means of improving the predatory situation, as the Council of State itself says. So I hope we can deepen this a little bit in the debate. For the Right, these are important questions. Governments are talking about the predatory game population in region 6. I have chosen to keep this debate to what is happening when it concerns southern Sámi domestic operations. Then there's the decisive situation in the North Trøndelag, and I'd like to get a clearer answer from the Council of State, considering what he actually does with regard to the fact that the predatory game population in the southern Sámi tamarein areas of the North Trøndelag is about twice as high as he is supposed to be. I'm glad that there are representatives from many parties in this room today, so I also want to challenge the other party on how they view the follow-up to the robberies deal when it comes to southern domestic operations. I would also like to have a comment on two of the Committee's comments that the Right and the other non-socialist parties had in the budget, which are intended to enable municipalities to use private/professional pests in order to take out pests that have been allowed to take out. I think there's one way to use to get more effective withdrawals, and I think it'll help mitigate the level of conflict and also reduce the losses. Another note that was in the same document was about preventative withdrawals. We know that when a reindeer or a farmer is going to let his animals out in an area where one knows it's predators, it's a very tax. When we have areas where predators are not supposed to be, which represent a potential hazard in priority grazing areas and calving areas for tamrein, it must be possible to facilitate greater use of preventative outlets. I also want to get a view from other parties on why they don't join that comment, if they have a reason for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1910	The first thing I want to say is that maybe the most important and most effective tool is to keep the goal of special gloat and yerv. In the past, we have far beyond that, both nationally and in the region, but there we now have both nationally and regionally for gloat coming down against the stock target, and also yours now lies two over regionally. So I'm aware that if you look at the distribution of the population, it looks a little bit different. But at least I'm going to say that I'm going to be reluctant to override it, and I'm also asking whether it means that Right now is inviting a debate around whether we're going to go in and override regional predators to a greater extent. I think I'm going to say that the most important thing I can do when it's about the robberies deal in that area is to make sure that we're as close to the stock targets both regionally and nationally as we can. There we have had a clear improvement in the last few years. Prevention is important. I went through a little bit of it. But there is no doubt that there is also a challenge with regard to Southern reindeer management and the way it is made. There is something I understand that the representative Lødemel is also aware of in his post. That makes it demanding. In the North Trøndelag, the reindeer are land-requiring, predators require land, and there is no doubt that there is one state where it creates the greatest challenges and potential conflicts. So I will conclude by saying that I thought it was important in my post to point out that in the industry there are also other reasons for loss of grazing animals and variations in slaughter weight, than predatory game. In fact, getting even better knowledge of the factors that influence it, and the kind of measures that, in total, can best ensure the south-samian reindeer, I think, are important. Then I have hopes for the research we have seen, which has just been aimed at improving the conditions for the southern reindeer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1921	It is very good that the representative Lødemel focuses on the follow-up to the Robbery Agreement, and that we get a discussion about it. At the same time, it is in a way a little unfortunate that it is necessary to discuss the follow-up to the robberies agreement. Because once we've got this joyous, wide agreement here in the house, one must expect it to be implemented. And then maybe it's not that simple anyway, because one finds out quickly that there's starting to be different interpretations of what's in that equation. I was at the Robbery Agreement in 2004, and I felt around, not least in my own valley up in the Gudbrand valley, that it was a very good deal, but people didn't feel that it was how it was done in practice. It was a very reaction to the administrator's way of following up what was the decision of the Storting at that time. I sincerely hope that we don't get such a situation now, when we have a collection of maggots that are behind a good management of predators, while at the same time taking care of beitem facilities – because that's where the problem lies. It's a real challenge. We're going to take care of our four large predators, while we're going to take advantage of the beitem facilities in this country. We have grazing rights, and we have to take care of him. In many ways, the use of the industry in the field has been the basis for much of the construction around the country. But I mean, in fact, this balancing, this challenge, was able to reconcile predators. That's why it's not good that there's now any doubt about this reconciliation. The wolf is marked by the zone division – now it should also be evaluated. As stated in the predatory game agreement, it must not be predators that can be harmful to priority grazing areas and the calving area for reindeer farming. You can immediately see that this is a discussion theme. I can give you an example from Lesja, a large outgrown municipality with a lot of sheep. That's where the wolf shows up. They wanted to trap the wolf, because the readings assume that when there were wolves in the sheep grazing area, it was a potential for damage. But they got a rejection. The wolf started, took sheep for an end and had done it for a long time. Then they were allowed to fall, and then they couldn't trap the wolf. Here I think we have to tighten up the intention of the predatory game deal, that there has to be far more access to taking out a wolf that enters such a priority grazing area. Of course, if a wolf is so far in the area and goes out again, then one should not take this completely slave, but if a wolf turns into a priority grazing area, he is – in my opinion of the Norwegian language – a potential for harm. And then I also challenge Solo meal and the other parts of some point. I can say when it comes to professional hunting, that at least it's important, whether it's government or municipal hunting teams, that it's done in a professional and effective way, so that you get the killing rights that are given. There are probably several ways to do so. I have already said that I believe that preventive withdrawals must be able to open up. When you see that a predator moves into a priority grazing area where it represents a potential for damage, it is preventive to be able to take it out before damage is expected. It shall not be necessary to cause any serious damage to the carcass before opening the carcass. I haven't been so much into this southern reindeer that was the starting point for the interpellation, but these are general problem settings that go all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1938	As the interpellant refers to, there is every reason to ask whether the regime attached to the management of the predatory game deal is being followed up in line with the text and intention of the agreement. So it's a little different, as it was said, from region to region. But the closest thing that seems to be the rule is that a good thing is to lie above the stock level. We see a recurring review of the predatory game subjects, a review that reminds us of a lack of understanding of the professional recommendations you receive locally and regionally. Because it is not the case that these topics conclude on lack of good, professional recommendations – or my Council of State that environmental protection organisations have better professional help than predators? It's a question that you have to ask yourself, when you see the over-tests being done. A lot of people are asking questions about the review. As an example, a named Rovviltnänderna in Troms and Finnmark's recommendation of license hunting on four wolves, which are completely side by side, and the birth rate is zero. So the wolf gets to live on Finnmarksvidda. Is this in line with the agreement? Then we know that there hasn't been a registered wolf there since 2011. But this is a priority grazing area, and the question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is When it comes to the globular ratio, he is seen, and now the appeal of decisions by environmental protection organisations is coming. It must be allowed to state that the recommendations of the regional authorities must now be given greater weight than the organisations, who initially want to ban hunting on all predators. It is recommended that 134 gauges can be lost in quota hunting, which starts on 1 February – and it will be exciting to see if this target is now being tested by the Ministry of the Environment. Even when it applies to you, there is a major problem in some regions with getting down to the agreed stock level. In the case of this issue, a greater hope should be given that the licence hunt will be more successful, rather than hi-takes, to which many respond negatively. It's hard to understand. Let me finally just give a clear signal when it concerns the stock targets. It's just as wrong to lie far above it as it is to lie far below it. The destination file is not a minimum level as experienced by today's default. There is also an expressed, clear measure, which several have mentioned here, that predators should not be present in the presence of a potential for damage in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and the calving area for domestic animals. In particular, with regard to southern survival and culture, in order for the southern Sami to survive with the predatory pressure they have today, this point must be respected. Preventive hunting must also be able to be used in that context, especially in the area we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1959	I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up the theme again. It gives a good opportunity to discuss one of the major issues of conflict out there that gets very little attention to the Storting. I think one of the funniest words that the Stortinget has invented is "reef game with damage potential". So realistic we should be that you can ask: can you show me a predator without any damage potential? In fact, I believe that this is part of a real orientation. I'm going to take the most important thing first: the midterms have special protection under the ILO Convention. We are now sitting with a Russian wolf tribe. It is not at all threatened, as the Storting has been told for many years. It has a range from the Pacific to the Atlantic. In fact, I believe that the southern samples and also Norwegian tamrein – we are the only surviving area that has tamrein – should have a much greater protection than a Russian wolf who has migrated and who is most viable where it comes from, and where we should acknowledge that we belong to the wide range of distribution, but for which we definitely have no special responsibility, as it appears. The first thing I think the council should clarify is whether there's going to be standing grounding permits on the wolf approaching, or in and of itself also on the predatory game approaching, the areas where the southern samples are running, and the areas where you have wild rain. I have many examples that it is extremely difficult to get a litter permit. It's hard to get a breeding permit, as you know you can have success in killing predators. It has something to do with track snow and the kind of thing to do. When the vegetation becomes too full, it's almost impossible to take the withdrawals. Will the Council of State in those areas where we have a very special protection for the south and wild — for which Norway has a very special responsibility for international, and for which it can be argued very well — provide standing permission for the killing of any predatory game approaching? Because I don't think there's predatory game without damage potential. So it's to take a little review, gloat and queen. In Hedmark we now live in such a predatory area that it is almost not considered to be predatory. There's a lot more strain on you, among other things. The Jerven is now being shot and observed all the way down in South Hedmark, i.e. in the forest areas, far beyond its natural habitats. I only take that as a sign that the population is so large that it is squeezed out of its natural habitat. The Council of States must begin to do something about it. It's dramatic how bad the management of yerv is, and how low the success rate is at the outlet. Then it's a bear. There I agree with the representative Grimstad: we must ensure that the stock target, as set out, is not a minimum target. It shall be an average target. There are some instructions for the predators that actually make it a minimum target. I haven't seen any sign that you've done anything about it. I have not seen any sign that the department has done anything in relation to what the Stortinget said about the male bear problem. There should be a number of male bears per female bear, as we have set the stock target in the lower inner. It's not done anything about it. I think there's going to be dramatic damage to bear. So finally to the wolf. Revolving wolves are dramatic, and we know that they affect people's quality of life. In my area now, dogs are taken in the farmyard. I get calls from desperate old ladies who don't dare go out to their own farm. You could probably discuss whether this is rational. It's not. I do not belong to those who have feared, but I am also required to bring my mobile phone when I go to the woods. When the wife tells me to have a cell phone, it's a reduction in my quality of life. I don't want to bring my cell phone to the woods. But this is actually – I see the Council of State smiling – on quality of life. It is well documented by HisST through the Health Study in the South-Trundelag that this is a matter of quality of life. So it's a Russian wolf. It's not threatened. It has a range from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and we should be realistic. Now we've had a wolf zone committee that doesn't have any legitimacy in the area that's actually affected, and I'm very excited about the treatment of it later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e1976	Excessive hunting through history resulted in the fact that our four great predators – gloat, yew, wolf and bear – had almost been exterminated in the last century. Slowly, but surely we got more knowledge of the natural place of predators in the Norwegian fauna, and it obviously has to do with the damage potential of predators, that they reduce the number of prey animals and prevent disease outbreaks on prey. Today, the aim is to ensure viable populations of Norwegian predators. That's what the Storting agreed on in the predator deal. Today’s Norwegian populations of large predators are largely shared with our neighbouring countries, and wolf and bear populations are increasing. But they're still so small that, especially in the case of the wolf, there's a danger – as you've been told here – that genetic selection is not large enough to create a viable population. In the case of Gaupas and the Yurven, the targets have been reached. That means we've come up with the number of animals the administration has decided we should have. However, species remain to be considered vulnerable, and close monitoring of populations is therefore important. Much of the predatory work in Norway is about working together to find the good solutions to the coexistence of bofes in the field and viable predatory populations. It's important. In particular, prevention is important. In 2012, there are estimated 65–69 family groups of gaupe on a national basis. It corresponds to a population of 384 to 408 animals in Norway. It's the third year in a row that we're recording a decrease in the number of family groups of globe. There's a drop of 7 pst. compared to the 2011 figure. This means that the globular population – as it is said here that it seems that it should always be above the target population – was 6 pst. above the target species, before hunting. It really means that we're under the target of young people. We've also had a decline in the last three years. In the case of yerv, 68 suspected juveniles were detected in Norway. There's an increase of 10 young people compared to last year. Looking at the national stock estimate, based on the number of juveniles in the last three years, there is an increase from 364 adult animals in 2011 to 395 in 2012. That means we're well above the stock target for you guys. But here's one important thing to notice: the whole increase, the whole number that's above the stock, is about Nord-Troms and Finnmark. Otherwise, we are on the stock target in the other regions. In my opinion, it makes no sense to spend money on the hijacking of yours in areas that are not priority pastures, just to keep the stock target down. The County of Nord-Trøndelag has completed the examination of the applications for loss of sheep to predators for 2012. A total of 5,424 sheep and lambs were applied for as lost to peaceful predatory game. One has to go back to 2004 to find losses that are lower than that of the year. In the case of granted applications, there is a clear gradual decrease from 2005. The losses in the case of pure are reasonably stable, but with a slight decrease in the Nord-Trøndelag from 2007 onwards towards 2011 to 2012, when it was replaced by 2,773 pure in the Nord-Trøndelag. There is no observed wolf in Finnmark this year. No damage caused by wolves has been recorded in the region since June 2011. That is why the Ministry of the Environment has said no to the Wolf Act in Finnmark. My conclusion is that it might seem that we have different emphasis here. Interpellant thinks it is a problem that there are predators in the regions, while I am more concerned about how we can go about measures to mitigate the level of conflict and ensure that we keep the populations, but make sure to reduce the loss rates on cattle. There's progress in the right direction. I have also been in the Nord-Trøndelag and discussed predatory game. I was at the Robbery Center in Namskogan. There they are not naive about predators, and they take the fear of predators seriously, and believe that we shall. But at the same time, they stress that neither the people of reindeer nor the peasants who know nature, fear of predators is strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2002	Interpellant focuses on an important area. Norwegian predator management has for a long time our germs to conflict. When the Storting adopted last year's so-called Robbery Agreement, it was in order to mitigate this level of conflict. In some areas it has been closed. In other areas, one is not even in target. From the Center Party's side, we have long pointed out that predator management must take care of the human beings who live in and feed in areas with these large predators of ours. They don't see predators as numbers on paper or in a statistic, but as part of the nature of their area. Some experience, as was referred to earlier, finding their own animals killed or severely injured after meeting predators. Others are afraid when they get some of the big predators in the vicinity of family and home. We have to take this seriously. Not least in the population living in predatory areas, there is a lot of knowledge – professionally for all, but also experience-based knowledge – about predators. These are experiences and knowledge that have not always been listened to as carefully by the established disciplines, but that can often prove to be more precise in retrospect. It can apply from the number of predators in a region to how it behaves. This knowledge has The Storting said in several respects is an important part of the collective knowledge. Then it is good that the number of losses of livestock has decreased as a result of the predatory settlement in parts of the country. In addition, it is good that part of the routines that the game of robbers said should be in place to take out predators that were not caught in the license hunt, now they are about to be incorporated. It's an important part of keeping the population as close as possible to the level that the Storting has seen. This is important in general, and then it's important especially close to this particular case. Cleaning is an important industry. We know that the southern Sami environment is also important as traditional and cultural in our country. So the Storing showed in the predatory agreement that predators representing a harmful potential in grazing areas and calving areas of domestic animals should be removed. The point was that a wanted change in what was the case until a negotiated predatory game agreement, that is, a more or less demanded cadaver or damage detection before one could take out the predator. As I understand these negotiations as we had in this house, there was a clear desire to change that practice so that one could go in and take the animals out before they do any damage, if they, for example, did. is in an area of grazing animals. I am pleased that the Council of State also pointed out that it should be possible. I still don't know the case where this has been practiced. I would like to stress that it is important for the legitimacy of the conciliation that this is also being done – now there may be others who know examples of it – because if one does not get this changed practice, it is not in line with the intention of a leading debate on the theme of this house, in the view of the Centre Party. There is no point in the local population observing predators, asking for killings, getting no to it, then experiencing great damage to domestic animals, with the burden it is for the local population, and then a compensation payment that costs the community money, and then getting a more expensive hunt afterwards, which may well result in the predator being taken out. But this leads to unreasonably high loads and unreasonably high costs, which you can avoid, and which the predator agreement says you should avoid. The representative Rudihagen had an example of that. Maintaining biological diversity is important. But biological shortages are not just about the four large predators, although the public debate may be influenced by it. It's actually about 30 pst. of our Red List species that live in a culture landscape that is just being maintained, among other things. Because we have a grazing industry that uses our field. It's a fact that many of those who are currently using nutrition seem to be content to lay down, among other things. due to the predatory problem. It's worth bringing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2017	:I thank the inter-pellant for putting an important theme on the agenda. In particular, it is important for us who are from the Nord-Trøndelag. I also thank you for the commitment of people and representatives from other parts of the country to the situation of the Southern reindeer in our county. It is, of course, the predatory settlement and the situation of reindeer operations in the North Trøndelag that is the starting point and the theme of this interpellation. My point of taking the word is really to focus on that this is about much more than the predatory agreement and the situation of the North-Trunde Team reindeer, because this is about the future of the Southern Sami culture and the future of the Southern Sami language. The Southern Sami culture is an important part of the identity of us who are northerners. It is a particularly vulnerable culture, and it is an extremely vulnerable language. We put in place measures to strengthen culture and strengthen language, and last but not least, it was a theme when the Ministry of Local Affairs' budget was debated here in the United Kingdom less than many days ago. We put all kinds of measures in many areas to maintain culture and language, but all of them depend on whether the reindeer survives, because it is the reindeer that is the main bearer of Southern Sami culture. The fear is that the reindeer are going down, so both culture and language are going down. Then the question is, can we afford it as a nation? That's the one question. The second question is, are we allowed to let that happen? Nord-Trøndelag is the administrative area for southern Sami languages. There are two municipalities that have become it now, it is Snåsa and Røyrvik – and the county municipality. It is southern Sami at Grong secondary school, and the University of North-Trøndelag also has Southern education. So Nord-Trøndelag takes its responsibility for the southern Sami in full seriousness, but is driving the reindeer, then the language and the culture – we lose a valuable part of the North-Trøndelag, and we become poorer. So it was that the predator agreement gave a new hope, it gave a new optimism in the reindeer industry. But when I hear you talk about an emergency situation, I have to ask questions about it, because it's not an emergency situation – it's been an emergency situation for many years. It's been many years since the body felt how predatory problems and predatory policies worked on the southern reindeer. The effects are amplified from year to year, and the losses are so great that there are problems with reproduction. Then there are also problems considering how many animals you can take out, and the slaughter weight goes down. It's going to affect profitability. Now it's like large areas in the North Throne Layer are protected areas. We have big, nice national parks. Blåfjella–Sjäkerfjella National Park and Børfjjell National Park are the areas in the county where you mainly operate the reindeer, and especially where you have the calving areas. Some of what you actually do in these protection areas is reindeer drift. What, then, should you do if you don't get to do reindeer because of the predatory problem? I need a visit to the representative of Gundersen, who talked about HiST and health studies in the South-Tronde Team. It is called HUNT, and the health studies in the Nord-Trøndelag have shown that the predatory situation does not only work at the quality of life, but it is psychologically negative for the population in the most congested areas of the Nord-Trøndelag – not only on the southern samples. I don't have the answer to what's right to do, but I'm glad it's started research projects. The question is whether we are too late, because the research projects should have started a long time ago. If we're too late, and the Southern reindeer doesn't survive, I fear, as I said, that both the language and the Southern Sami culture follow. We then made an irrecoverable mistake. It's a mistake that we absolutely can't afford.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2039	The situation of the southern Sami culture and industry, the reindeer, is critical. It is very important that we manage to establish a kind of forward-looking belief in the reindeer industry, because it is – as the previous speaker said – the whole foundation of the Sami culture. The Southern Sami culture is linked to the reindeer. This also applies in Hedmark. We have the southernmost southern Sami area. It's a very small industry, and so the numbers can get so small that someone thinks it's not important. But we have a responsibility to do this. I'm also glad that we've started research in this area, but there's a hurry to make some plans, so we're sure we're doing our best to preserve these cultures. Robbery policy is a conflict. Hedmark, who has a long border with Sweden, has all the predators. We are also a very piggy country, and have had a large amount of primary industries that have benefited from outreach. That is why this case has been in conflict in Hedmark for very many years – before it became in a way a major national conflict case. I am very pleased with the rapprochement that all the parties made in June 2011 especially because the importance of the preventive and conflict mitigation measures, which I believe are now well advanced in the government, is very much emphasised. But it's very important that you follow this up very closely, as the agreement is. As many people have experienced, it seems pointless to those who discover that there are predators near the grazing animals, that they have to wait until very serious damage has occurred before obtaining a breeding permit. It feels very meaningless, because it happens over and over again. There is also no protection for predators, since you must in any case trap these predators when they have done a great deal of damage. So I'm busy with this thing with withdrawals when you've decided to fold. I certainly believe that it is of the things we have to work on, so that we get a withdrawal when we have decided to fold. I'm open to evaluating different ways of implementing it, because the point is to implement the decision you've decided on. It has turned out that in many of the killing permits that have been granted, there is no killing because this is a very difficult and very complicated hunt. Nor is it the case that resources are always available locally to be able to implement them long enough. Here, different changes have been made that go in the right direction, but I think this is one of the things you need to look at in order to get a system that allows you to apply the measures that you have started. I am also a little excited about how to follow up on this with the extraction of male bears, which in Hedmark has been a very big problem. There has been a very large number of male bears, and they have done very much damage. They don't have a reproductive function and they're not important for the further population. For predators and nutrition. I've been talking about the reindeer, and I've been talking about the grazing of small cattle in the woods, i.e. sheep. Clearly, this is difficult. But there is also a positive nutritional potential associated with predators. It is also under development in Hedmark. There's a lot that can develop in that area, which isn't just negative for the perimeter. I think it is very important that we manage to develop it too, because predatory policies can easily be about the edge of the center. I think we can create a better alliance here if we support better the nutrition projects that have predators as a positive starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2058	I would like to thank the interpellant for having raised an unusually important issue, especially for the reindeer industry in the Nord-Trundelag, to which the interpellation is specifically addressed today. Several have addressed the predatory situation throughout the country, which is so important but not directly relevant in this case. The southern reindeer industry in Trondelag is really on the verge, if I can use that expression. Bjørn Lødemel and I have been up there several times and had meetings with representatives of the industry. I have to say that Susanne Bratli's articles really put it all in place. It's so bad. It's bad for the whole of Southern Sami culture if you take away the nutrient base, and that's exactly what's about to happen. We thought that when the predator agreement was adopted here a year ago, things would get better. A lot of people say it's actually getting worse. Now, after research, it is reported that there are too many reindeer. No, the number says it's not, but the tragic thing is that the sims that should have born calves don't have calves. Now, we might not have to go all the way to the reindeer industry to figure out that when you get disturbed in the sexual act, it's not going to be exactly as fun to hold on to, so it might be something lying there, as well as when they're being hunted by predators, it's going to be pretty much loose for the sims as well. So the evolution that happens is not unnatural. It's just half of these sims that have calves, and of course it's quite tragic. What's really bad is that there's disagreement about the number of predators. All the time it is claimed from so-called – excuse the expression – scientists that there are not so many predators, while those who are in nature and observe predators, as one would initially think had the best assumptions to get an idea of the number of predators, says something quite different. They're the ones who feel it on the body. One has also had cases where it has been legitimate rather to extract predators before they have done any damage than after they have done any damage. And when many people report either traces or excrements after predators, the scientists don't have time to come until it's actually too late. Research is important, but one has to realize that there are a lot of people who belong to the research group, who are actually more happy in predators than in grazing animals, and I have to ask that the Council of State notices, so that those who are practitioners of the industry are also given the opportunity to join in and say their research. Susanne Bratli also brought up the state of health, which is the result of being pushed so hard into an industry. The representative Lødemel and I have also observed this when we visited the Nord-Trøndelag. It's just as tragic as Susanne Bratli presented it. So with that in mind, I'm going to ask the Council of State to take this seriously, and it's not about having a future research to figure this out. Actually, something needs to be done now, otherwise it goes down with the Southern Sami culture. That would be bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2075	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue – a problem that applies not only to the Trondelags and the southern Sami reindeer, but also to large areas of the country that have predators. It was said here by the representative of Aegean that we should have a viable population of predators, and I think everyone agrees on that. But then the question comes: what is a viable population? The representative, Gundersen, was aware that in Norway we have a Russian wolf tribe. It is widely used from the Pacific to the Atlantic. There is no danger that that wolf population will be eradicated in any way, and at least not in the foreseeable future. Then I mean we have a viable population. This does not mean that the viable population necessarily needs to be in Norway and in limited areas in Norway. As long as we have a viable population worldwide, we have a viable population. Then maybe Norway, which is a small country dependent on outdoor industries, can have a few fewer of a species, when we have so many of the other species like globular, york and bear. Aegean was also in the number, and that's a little interesting in this debate. The Robbery Agreement and all the debates about predatory game are about juveniles. It's kind of exciting. It doesn't sound so much that we have 68 young people of yours. But the fact is, when you're going to get an estimate of how many y'all there are, you have to multiply it by 6.5. And then you get the number. Then we're actually up in over 440 yuvs. It's getting pretty much. Then there's someone who says that the yerven breed only every two years unless the feed supply is particularly good. That's also true. But in those areas where there is one breeding peacock, it's like two yerves. So they breed every year – but second every year if the feed supply is poor. So the population will stay up, and will increase anyway. Some were also in the count of gaupe. Most of the Gaupe censuses are made by observations. It turns out that every single time they do line taxiing, the population increases and almost doubles in some areas. That's why it's also important that we have a healthy relationship to just counting stocks, and that we use the most effective methods, so that we get a proper stock and not just an estimate. Then I want to draw up a little example from Uppland a few years ago. It concerns the possibility of animals being taken out. Upland shall not have breeding bears. There were 19 different individuals registered as bears in Uppland, and there were male bears. Male bears don't have kids, but they're in and out. Some of these bears were overwintering, but they were still not localized. They overwintered the second and third years. At that time, these researchers found out that they were not localized, but they were localized! I don't quite know what that is, but at least it was an expression that the researchers found out was right. What happened was that one of these bears in a particular area took in the harvest 120 sheep – 120 sheep from the same farmer. That is, his entire cattle was gone. A time-limited killing authorisation was granted. They were unable to trap the bear on this permit, the time passed. It was winter, the bear went in hi and overwintered. Then they apply for the spring to get this bear out, and get no. The reason was: it is not certain that this bear will take sheep when it goes out again! In this area of Gausdal, they call the sheep bamsemums, and there's a reason for that. When this application was rejected in the spring, a moose was taken, and the bear was allowed to go in peace anyway. He took another elk, and then the farmers decided that ok, we'll try and let out ten sheep. There were not many days before three of them were gone, they were taken by the bear. What is so important here is that when there is a risk that domestic animals may be taken by predators, we must act immediately. It is not possible to wait and believe that predators who live well on domestic animals will not continue to do so even if they have wintered. It is easy for predators to take domestic animals, such as sheep, it is much easier than taking elk and deer. Therefore, farmers must also demand that they be allowed to protect their industry and take care of the food they have — without being afraid that the basis will be lost because someone wants to have more predators than Norway is ready to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2094	There is always a certain danger of taking up a predatory debate when a hot bear, but fortunately a senior and not a young male bear anymore. I thank you for a very nice debate. That is a good point of view for many of us. I can go through a little bit of this. To what the Council of State says, the right does not want to try out regional predators. It must be reasonably clear. We have great confidence in them – perhaps more trust than certain others. When it comes to Rudihagen, it was interesting that he named the wolf on Lesja, because on Lesja there should not be a wolf. It is clear that when those who are in the sheep industry at Lesja know that there is a wolf in that area, there is a kind of psychological terror for those who are going to let their animals out. Such preventive withdrawals should be done automatically. When it comes to Aegean, he talks about the loss of sheep going down, and that it's positive. Of course, it's positive, but then you have to ask yourself what the starting point is. Is the starting point that people have given up sheep-holding – that there is simply much less sheep going on pasture? At least there is something you should investigate further. We see what happens in the wolf zone, that people give up on grazing animals, and it's clear there's going to be less loss to predatory game then. The representative Sande agrees in part of my view, but that's a shame they don't get any greater impact on government. When it concerns Bratli, she has observed the same thing that I have observed. It's a little special that a right-wing politician from Sogn and Fjordane travels several tours to the North Trøndelag and to Elgang and other places to learn about this situation. And that's a very correct consideration of the situation. That's why I'm very concerned. When it comes to what the representative, Andersen, says about the predators that have been decided on withdrawals, that it has to be done quickly and efficiently, I fully agree with that. As of today, it's actually under 10 pst. of what the State has granted exit permits, which are implemented. And it's complicated; it can even be dangerous. Therefore, it is certain that if the municipalities want private/professional damages, there must be a way to get on here. At least that means me. Otherwise, I have traveled a lot in these rogue-fired areas, among other things. to the south of Elgå and Ristin Mortensson, who is now sitting and listening to. I was visiting the Femunden and the reindeer owners there, and a reindeer, Jon Anders Mortensen, says that this is no longer a question to the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry for the Environment, it could be a question to the Minister for Health. In view of what they feel about predators and grazing animals, tell us how serious the situation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2113	Let me just answer a couple-three questions first that came up. Ulf licensing: With the exception of Troms and Finnmark, decisions were taken in the regional predatory wildlife domains in all regions – it was well documented with a small exception to a border change in Hedmark. But the number was well documented in terms of damage to and observation of the wolf. When it comes to Troms and Finnmark, it's like there's no evidence of injury, there's no observation of the wolf at all, but there's been a decision on the killing of four wolves. It was over-tested, and a rejection of that fall was made because there was simply no observation of or documented damage at all. In that case, I think it would be a mistake to allow a licence to lapse. The other applies to bear. We're following up on what's in the looting game deal. It was the license agreement of the bear last fall, which many will remember. It was extraordinary fallout now in ours because quite a few were taken last fall, and we will run to assess whether there is a need for more there – despite the fact that I will probably reserve something against the description given here from the pulpit that males have no reproductive function. It is nevertheless right to follow up on what is in the predatory game agreement there, which I believe may also have meaning. So I'd just like to say briefly that when it's about the predatory game deal, it's very good, but there's two things that probably can't take care of. The only thing is that the robberies deal cannot eliminate the real conflicts and challenges that are with the shared objective of having both grazing and predatory game in Norway. The fact that there are, in fact, conflicts and challenges associated with them will exist, but we can reduce them, manage them better and prevent them. The second is that it probably can't remove a real inequality and a different view of it, as we've seen in this room. Several of the representatives who have been up have taken a far-off view. It's a law, it's a law, it's a law, it's a law, it's a law, it's a law, it's a law, it's a law, it's a law, it's a law, it's a law, My task is to follow up the looting agreement that is agreed here in Stortinget, as exactly as possible – make sure that it is followed up and take the challenges we should have with this, further on. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it has been a constructive tone in the debate. It is an important theme that has been taken up. I also think we have been demonstrated by several representatives that the debate has gone beyond the theme it began, namely the relationship between predatory and reindeer policy, to become a question of how we should carry on with an important culture as part of the history of our country and part of future to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2130	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2146	Alnabru freight terminal is hub in Norwegian freight transport. The terminal is at the centre of gravity of freight transport in the Oslo area, and Alnabru is a crossroads for all lines in the same area. Goods are loaded from track to track and from car to track from car. Alnabru is more than just a terminal. With the financial crisis, we had a natural decline in the number of goods transported on the road. We saw the same decline in the proportion of goods transported by other means of transport. The difference is that while the proportion of goods by road and sea has recovered slightly afterwards, the proportion of goods by road is still low. At the same time, it is said that the demand for freight capacity on trains is today greater than the offer. The NHO report, entitled Quality assurance of the concept investigation for the renewal and extension of the Alnabru freight terminal, concludes that a treble in the carriage of goods by road is unrealistic and that the railway system has over-dimensioned the Alnabru project. It's going the wrong way. The proportion of goods on the track goes down, while the number of trailers on our roads just increases. This development has been going on for many years, despite the government's expressed objectives of something quite different. It is a political goal – and it is cross-political – to transfer more goods from road to rail. But to get this done, the industry needs political drag help. The Alnabru terminal can collapse over the next six to seven years, according to the Railway Agency, i.e. the government's own body. The collapse of Alnabru can provide 300,000 more car combinations on our roads per year, with reference also to NHO Transport. Today's technical plant at Alnabru is old and worn. In any case, if the terminal is not rebuilt, there will be a need for extensive renewal of the installation within 10-20 years – without necessarily increasing capacity for that reason. The use of the Alnabru terminal is in the process of reaching the ceiling, as well as the preparation of the railway technical facilities for replacement. They're old, and something has to be done. A quality report ordered by the Ministry of Transport to look at the Alnabru Plan of the Railway Agency states that the development should take place more quickly than previously foreseen by the Railway Agency. At the same time, this report also states that development can take place at a much lower price. The railway system itself has developed a good strategy aimed at doubling the volume of freight carried by train by 2020 and tripled by 2040. One freight train replaces between 25 and 30 wagon trains. A doubling of the capacity of Alnabru will therefore remove a total of 2000 trailers from Norwegian roads each day. This corresponds to a reduction in annual emissions of 78000 tonnes of CO2 and 520 tonnes of NOx. Such road-to-road freight transport also involves up to 20 fewer fatalities or injuries to road traffic annually in a road safety context. This means, on the one hand, savings in socio-economic costs of between 300 million. NOK 350 and SEK 350 million. kr each year, and on the other hand – not to forget the most important thing – this will also represent the absence of suffering affecting individuals and their families. The growth in traffic to which the Railway Agency’s good strategy implies a need for approx. 11 km with stowage tracks on Alnabru after the first construction step. Today, 4 of 17 rail tracks on Alnabru are reserved for CargoNet, the public part, and 4 for the private Cargolink. At the same time, CargoNet controls the transhipment and machinery park at most terminals, as well as the workshop that also repairs the trains. If the activity is measured proportionally, we will also see that the activity is greater on the 4 private lines than the other 13. In comparison – to get a picture of it – this means that the runways on the Gardermo should have been owned by SAS, a small strip of Norwegian, and all the other companies that wanted to land on these strips had to ask about law and, of course, pay to land. Then everyone realizes that this is not a good solution in society when we transfer the same logic to Alnabru. The 17 tracks on Alnabru should have been managed as a common resource, preferably — possibly — by a modernised railway system that could ensure a level playing field, flexibility and not least competition on these tracks. In the right we think that we see little involvement from the government in this area, which in terms of road safety, industry and the private labour market, has a very important impact on Norway's competitiveness. The railway works overestimate, I think, the amount of goods that will be transported by railway in the future. A tripling of freight traffic is not realistic. Since the railway works have planned a tripling, they have also reached a need for upgrading that amounts to approximately 10 billion. NOK, plus 3 billion. NOK for the purchase of land and land, i.e. land. If the cost is to be so high, it is clear that this is also coming into competition and in priority with other types of investment that we sorely need in the transport sector. Until now, the Railway Agency has looked at the possibility to triple the capacity of Alnabru. But with the planning of the police's new emergency base at the same location, the Railway Agency also has to consider other alternatives and look at the exploitation needed at Alnabru. I've been up there traveling the area, I've talked to the transporters and I've met the various actors in the area, and we believe that 30 measures of the site must be used for police preparedness, as it looks today and with the information we have. At the same time, we don't know because the details of what this will mean for the area are not sufficiently known. From the right, we find it very worrying that the government cannot appear as fully aware, and that we do not get an overall assessment of the whole area, so that all the facts are clarified in this context when two different businesses are going to live side by side. As it now appears, this seems a little bit co-ordinated and small-scale. There is now a quality assurance of the development plans for, inter alia: providing sufficient security to continue the correct deployment options and implementation strategy for the development of the freight terminal. In addition, consideration shall also be given to the ability of the police helicopter base to fit into the area. But independent of the emergency centre – this is not an obstacle to building step 1 on the Alnabru terminal, as we see it – there is a desperate need for someone to start the renewal process. What I'm asking is, and the right question is, why doesn't the government start right away? Director Enger of the Railway Agency has even recommended that this be expanded as public-private cooperation, also with public-private funding. The right considers that the Minister of Transport should listen to the subject matter and initiate the construction of Stage 1 as an OPS project already in 2013. It is important that the uncertainty surrounding the emergency centre does not lead to further training of construction steps 1. It is important to get this work started immediately, both because the existing terminal has reached the capacity limit and because it will remove about 2000 train trains from Norwegian roads every day. It costs a lot. The investment needs of Alnabru are high, but a diet/benefit analysis also shows that development will be among Norway’s most profitable transport projects in modern times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2203	Initially, it is important to establish two things: the government's goal of transferring more goods from road to sea and track where it is socially beneficial has not changed. Secondly, the development plans for Alnabru have not been scrapped. I am concerned that we are implementing an extension to Alnabru that provides sufficient capacity and that the renewal of the facilities is taking place in a timely manner. The situation of goods on the road is an important theme. I will therefore try to explain what the government has done, and what it will do in the future. I want to put the emphasis on Alnabru, since the representative Schou in his interpellation focused just on this terminal. The Alnabru terminal is, as the representative was, for freight transport what Oslo S is for passenger transport. The terminal itself is the hub of rail freight. The Alnabru Terminal has enough capacity to receive some more goods than is currently being handled, but in the longer term the capacity of the terminal needs to be expanded. In addition, the technical facilities at Alnabru are old and worn out. Words like collapsing become very tabloid. However, it is clear that the Railway Agency estimates that the renewal of the technical installations will have to start before 2019. If we postpone this renewal, operational stability will go down. The cost of repairs and maintenance will increase. With lower operational stability, rail competitiveness in freight will also be reduced. A well-functioning hub is a prerequisite for achieving the goal that we have in common, of more goods on the railway. In the current National Transport Plan 2010–2019, a gross cost estimate of 1 billion was made. kr to start of the Alnabru project. After several years of planning, the railway works have developed a master plan for a first of four construction steps at Alnabru. The Master Plan was in place in 2010 and the cost has been estimated at more than 10 billion. kr. In view of the significant increase in the cost allocation that existed, the Ministry of Transport saw the need for a review of the existing development plans and launched an external quality assurance of the development plans in December 2011. This quality assurance work was completed for the first six months of this year. The quality assurance carried out showed that the railway works master plan for stage 1 would in itself provide a good and functional freight terminal. However, the quality assurance raised several fundamental questions on the basis of which the railway works were planned. In particular, the expected capacity needs and the appropriateness of maximising the capacity of Alnabru were involved. The quality assurance showed that the Railway Agency has made plans for a terminal that is much larger than is likely to be needed. Overall, construction steps 1 to 4 of the railway works master plan will approximately triple the capacity of Alnabru. Construction stage 1 will give approximately a doubling of the capacity on the terminal. The quality assurance carried out in the summer points to the fact that the future demand for the terminal will be about twice today, i.e. it corresponds approximately to construction stage 1 of the master plan. So, of course, the question is, why can't you start working on the planned construction step 1 right away. The railway station’s planning work at Alnabru has resulted in a premise that the terminal should be developed in such a way as to triple the capacity in the long term compared to today. Therefore, construction stage 1 was designed for a further extension of the terminal at a later stage. Alternatives that did not provide this possibility were found early in the Railway Agency’s investigation of various development options at Alnabru. In fact, the premise of a possibility of subsequent tripling may have resulted in more socio-economically profitable solutions to double capacity being insufficiently assessed and analysed. The Ministry of Transport believes that it is important to consider in more detail whether the solution options could have been designed differently and more reasonably if another objective had been set as the primary from the outset. With construction stage 1, the expansion of the terminal will take place in a single step, while in the years to come the capacity requirement will be more gradual. We have to live with the fact that it is not realistic with a linear capacity extension, and a smaller stage of deployment split is likely to reduce the risk of overinvestment in capacity at a later stage. As regards the establishment of the police emergency centre, the quality assurance showed that it will be possible to establish this type of emergency centre on Alnabru while at the same time realizing the first construction steps in the master plan – i.e. a doubling of the capacity of the terminal. However, it will not be possible to extend the terminal beyond the first stage of construction in such a way that at a later stage a triple as indicated in the original master plan will be achieved. In summary, it is important to say that there are a number of factors that have now commissioned the Ministry of Transport to look at alternatives to the planned development. Expected capacity needs appear to be too high and have placed strong limits on what alternatives are considered possible and realistic. These conditions render it no longer relevant to triple the capacity of Alnabru. In other words, there have been changes in the assumptions after the work on the development plans was completed by the Railway Agency. Once the main premises for the investigation work have changed, it will only be wrong to close your eyes and say: Go on! The expectation related to the development of freight volumes in the medium and long term indicates, according to the Ministry of Transport, that it would be sensible to facilitate approximately a doubling of rail freight capacity. There should be an overall ambition for the development of the Alnabru terminal. The existing building stage 1 plans at Alnabru increase capacity from the current level of 600 000 TEU to about 1.1 million in one jump, while the development of demand is expected to take place more gradually. The Ministry of Transport has therefore commissioned the Railway Agency to propose solutions to Alnabru which involve a more gradual extension of the terminal than the existing development plans provide. It shall also be considered whether it is possible to obtain more reasonable deployment options in view of the fact that the terminal is land-limited to approximately a doubling of capacity. I want a development plan where the terminal develops as much as possible in line with demand, rather than expanding everything at once. With this kind of approach, the aim is to speed up the development process in order to be able to increase the capacity of Alnabru early in the coming national transport plan period. Step-by-step developments would also be appropriate if the market were to develop more positively than the projections currently forecast. I am concerned that the work on further developing the Alnabru terminal can get started quickly. In its mission to the Railway Agency, the Ministry of Transport has therefore specifically asked for an assessment of the possibilities for action during the first four years of the next national transport plan, including: renewal needs and expected capacity needs in the light of current Alnabru residual capacity. This may be a first step in the longer-term modernisation and renewal of the terminal. The first phase of the investigation shall be at a conceptual level, i.e.: an overall assessment of possible solutions. The Ministry of Transport aims at ensuring the quality of the investigation externally in the autumn of 2013, with a view to further detailing the selected development and renewal option from 2014. The knowledge we now have, for example: as a result of the external quality assurance initiated, there is a need to ask questions about the existing Alnabru development plans. The massive increase in the cost allocation from the current NTP to the master plan is one element that has reinforced that need. In addition, in recent years, rail has received strong competition from cheap foreign road transport. It is therefore important for measures that can reduce the costs of freight carriers on the road. A more efficient and modern terminal is the type of action. There has been great impatience in the further development of the Alnabru terminal. I share this impatience. We can't wait ten years for a further expansion of Alnabru. With a step-by-step and more realistic approach than the original approach, it is my view that the capacity of Alnabru could be increased much faster than originally planned. In addition, the government will return to more concrete actions in the national transport plan for the period 2014-2023, known to the Assembly, to be presented to the Stortinge in the spring session next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2246	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I am very pleased that the Council of State stresses that the goal of getting more goods from road to road has not changed, but I dare remember that it has now been eight years, and it is still going wrong – all the time. I am very pleased that the plans for the expansion of Alnabru are not scrambled. It's absolutely necessary, and when the Council of State says that you're now looking at whether this can be made more reasonable, it's completely in line with how the Right thinks: more for the money. That's wise. At the same time, I would like to point out that when the Council of State says that Alnabru is to be expanded in line with demand, I think it's also a wise approach, but I remind you that you are therefore at those degrees of deficit, with a aftermath that makes Alnabru and the freight terminal have difficulties working if we only see six–seven years in the future and have not done the necessary steps. Then I also appreciate the fact that the Council of State has taken advantage of the time from when the interpellation was promoted, until we get the debate in the hall, by asking the Railway Agency to come up with a plan for gradually expanding the Alnabru terminal. I think that's wise, while I don't fully understand why it's not possible to go from plan to action. Once again, there is a new change, a new review and new rounds, while the Railway Agency itself says that this is a project that is very well suited for public–private cooperation. I think it is important once again to point out that both the Alnabru freight terminal, the line lines and the end-point terminals need to be expanded, but they also need to be streamlined. A lifting should also be granted which increases punctuality, provides more predictability and reduces rail transport costs. This is underlined by those engaged in freight transport throughout the country – this is the hub, and does not work the hub, it has consequences far beyond the whole country. This with crossing tracks, slot times, large enough capacity and competition at the Alnabru terminal is one of the things repeatedly pointed out to the actors as the necessary needs and must also be done in parallel with an expansion. Studies show that the number of tonne-kilometres transported will increase if the terminal is moved. Therefore, the location of Alnabru is optimal in terms of both environmental and transport costs. The policy measures increase the capacity of Alnabru to maintain traffic growth in the short term. I think that's important and necessary, and I also hear that that's what the Council of State is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2259	I share the inter-pellant's views on the question of speeding up the measures that should be taken at Alnabru. That is precisely why, after the quality assurance carried out this summer, we chose to ask questions about some of the very basic aspects of the master plan carried out by the Railway Agency to give a new assignment to go through the possibilities of faster action, i.e.: actions during the first four-year period of the next national transport plan, while also splitting up the project and making a more gradual development that may not be so ambitious from the start, but where one gets started more quickly. I think it's absolutely crucial to start the modernisation that we have to do at Alnabru. This means that, in the context of the NTP, one will come back to the discussion of the first measures that can be implemented related to Alnabru, but that one will also continue the investigation work around a step-by-step development, aiming to ensure quality and further detailed development from the harvest in line with a step-by-step development. Then the interpellant was also concerned about the question of some other aspects of freight traffic and the freight transport on the road. I also agree that keeping attention to crossing tracks and other measures that can make way for a good alternative for those who want to carry goods is very important. I also agree that the issue of ownership of the terminals and who operates the terminals will also be an important issue to come back to in the national transport plan, and I think that the interpellant's views there, if a possible neutral operator, are quite important points of view that the Ministry of Transport is also very concerned about. Then I would also like to say that the main government has contributed, and which is a necessary and sustained work that needs to be carried out, and which has unfortunately been neglected for far too many years before this government came to the government offices, is a priority of maintenance, operation and renewal of the railway. It is the most important thing that can be done to get a more punctual and competitive railway also for the transport of goods. The work on upgrading the standard on the railway, with which this government has started and got well on the road, is perhaps the most important single measure one can do to increase the ability of the railway to compete on the freight side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2270	I think the Council of State's response summed up the situation in Alnabru in a good way, and I agree that it's not just to run with something you're not sure about. But I guess I'm so concerned that we actually get to do something with Alnabru because we have to. The developments outlined by the Council of State, with a step-by-step evolution in line with demand, may make sense, but then we have to get moving quickly. Measures must be put in place during the first four-year period of the next NTP. One of the reasons I think such a step-by-step development makes sense is that I am not convinced that all the growth in the future will be taken at Alnabru – a terminal in the middle of Oslo. Elsewhere in the country, it is discussed to move the terminals out of the cities – in Trondheim and in Bergen. Sales owners are also on their way out of cities to cheaper plots near good infrastructure on the outskirts or in surrounding municipalities. This is a development we have to follow. That being said, one thing is certain: Alnabru still has its place as the hub of freight transport. But would it be wise to look at alternative development opportunities as well? With an upgraded and expanded Alnabru as a hub and with one or more satellites elsewhere in the East, relief is provided – e.g. in Eastfold, where in the Mosse region both port, airport and good infrastructure are provided on both the road and rail sides. Rail freight has more challenges than the expansion of Alnabru. On March 13th this year, a race crossed the Dovre course. On 6 April – during reconstruction – a new race took place in the same place. Only after eight weeks could the track be opened for traffic again. This is just one of the challenges that rail freight has had to face, making customers uncertain whether goods on the road are worth betting on. It is a heavy job to prevent floods and races from stopping freight traffic and other railways. But there are also things we can do – things that we have left behind – to provide more freight from road to rail. That is why I believe there are several things that need to be done. The other infrastructure must be in such a condition that we have a safe and efficient transport of the goods. I am pleased with the spin-off the red-green government has done in terms of upgrading the network. We already see the effect of it, and further renewal and upgrading of the rail system in the years to come is crucial for our success. The railway must be capable of being trusted. Rail freight is currently struggling with profitability, and in a competitive market it is limited what the State can do to directly increase profitability. But one measure that has been outlined, I believe. It concerns the ownership and operation of the terminals. Earlier this year, the Railway Agency has provided an investigation indicating that they should take over the terminals. I think that would be right. Today, the state only owns the Gandal terminal. Operation of other terminals is mainly the largest freight operator. We need a competitively neutral owner and operator of the terminals, and it will also relieve operators of the costs they have today. It is not a huge sum that goes with the operation of the terminals, but for the freight operators it is essential for profitability. It would be right to regard the terminals as part of the infrastructure – and with the same owner. The working party has ambitions for more goods on the railway. Providing an Alnabru terminal with sufficient capacity is a prerequisite, but we need to do more. The maintenance, renewal and modernisation of the other infrastructure must continue. New crossing tracks must be built and existing crossing tracks must be extended. The development of double tracks will also increase the accessibility of freight trains and is not only important for passenger transport. The ownership and operation of the terminals should be added to the Railway Station. I am convinced that the new national transport plan presented in the new year will contain measures that will improve the situation of freight transport and support the objective we have of more goods on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2283	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue with major challenges. I also want to start by mentioning one thing that might have made this a little more difficult, namely the government's decision to add the emergency centre to Alnabru. It will continue to take a long time before it is in place, but it has also created uncertainty and concern for part of the transport and logistics industry in Alnabru. Then I record that the Council of State is very much in agreement with the interpellant that it is important to get started quickly. Yes, we very much agree with that. But it might be even more important to decide when to do this. That's what you're concerned about. When can you expect things to be done? It doesn't just help to talk about that we have to get started quickly, when you haven't decided when you're going to be done. So I want to challenge the Council of States to be more concrete and not just talk about getting started quickly, but also start saying when things actually have to be in place and be done. It's also important. So I agree with what the interpellant says. If we don't start doing something about rail-based freight, I think soon it's gone or at least it's going to have major challenges. Because there is no doubt that the mode of transport that wears all, most of all, is rail freight. When I read the comments of the government parties in the setting, when I read what is in the staging proposition on the matter, there is actually reason for concern, because I believe it is not as offensive as when the council says it is important to get started. In fact, I feel that the attitude of the government is that one should consider – as the Council of State now says – to look at this again. I think we've been discussing this for enough years. I think it's important to get started, so that those who are going to operate on rail freight have confidence and faith that this is actually something you want. If development is allowed to continue, as it does now, and you don't take the grips and decide when things should be finished and in place, it will almost be that freight will be a museum thing – something you had in previous times – because you can't compete with others. But even if you just keep pushing this in front of you, as I feel the government is doing because of course there are huge costs here, I still think there will be many trains going. But there is going to be a wagon train – on the road – in a row and in a row. To a large extent, it would also be a non-resident wagon train. We see that the competition now allows non-resident car combinations to deliver about half the price of what they can deliver on the railway. Only in this train is the state with its own company with a lot of non-resident car combinations and drivers running at a much lower salary and at a completely different cost than the State itself does through its subsidiaries in the Post. It's interesting to hear from the Council of State and the commitment to the train. It's interesting to listen to the representative Langeland's commitment to this. But when we address the challenges that are just hitting the railway most: cabotage, costs and use of foreign companies into transport, it is the railways that are the big loser, not the other modes of transport. It is incredibly important to start building up the Alnabru terminal. The Municipality, the State and the Railway Agency have been on for too many years now, now we need action. We can't keep saying that we're going to investigate in 2013. I think it is sad when the Council of State says that she is busy getting started quickly, and that the government would not support the Right and the Advance Party's proposal in the matter of bringing in externals that can both plan and get on with the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2296	When we discuss transport policy in this room, and when we have done so in recent years, there are two things that are quite easily recognizable. One is that the government boasts of its own excellence, and the other is that you owe it to the previous government for the most part that goes wrong. I didn't hear so much boast today, but the usual thing to blame for the previous government came. I honestly believe that after almost eight years one must expect that one will take responsibility for one's own policies and not owe it to the previous government. In 2002, the civil government was overthrown, when the volume of goods was on the road in Norway was 5,894 000 tonnes, rising to 7,195 000 tonnes in 2005. In the latest report now presented by the Railway Statistics Agency for 2011, we are down to 5,085000 tonnes, i.e. over 800,000 tonnes lower than it was in 2002. One of the obvious reasons for this is that the hub for rail freight in Norway is not working. We don't have enough crossing tracks either. Right-wing proposals several years ago to create a separate action plan for crossing tracks precisely to highlight where there was the greatest need, so that we could increase capacity and get more parallel freight trains were voted down, and it was said that this should be done without an action plan. That hasn't happened. Then we experience that even the trades union, the Railway Agency, is very concerned that we do not have progress on Alnabru, are concerned about the cost increase that comes, and recommend other, more modern solutions to get to the goal faster, i.e. project finance and like to involve private actors. It was not done either. Then the State Council answers Arnstad interpellant with a long investigation that the assumptions have changed, you have to make new plans, and now she will take on a more step-by-step development to achieve the goal. All of this is well and good, but it is such that it might be time to involve an external actor in this work, as we have suggested in this room. When we listen to those who really know where the shoe prints, representatives from the NHO, logistics and transport, or maybe the private Cargolink, they both claim that there are opportunities to exploit Alnabru in a completely different way from what is happening today, thus avoiding the attack that is now in the process of appearing, or at least postponing it for some years. Freight and rail passenger transport is a matter of trust. It's about ‘upturn’, it's about regularity, it's about punctuality, and it's about flexibility. When we see that the amount of goods has gone back as much as it has done, there are these things that it has failed to do. That's what you should concentrate on from the government. When state councillor Arnstad says that let's get a step-by-step expansion, we'll see how the market is developing, I want to challenge the government council a little bit: why not turn the issue around and develop a modern offer? So the market will react positively, as markets tend to do. I will conclude with three questions to the Council of State, which I hope she can answer: Why will this government not use project funding models that they themselves have written in their government statement, the Soria Moria statement? What are the ambitions of this government for freight? When will Alnabru be finished? Collectors, carriers and customers are waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2315	Let me start by saying that some of the problem when it comes to the railway is that the railway has been failing for 40 years, including – to rip it up, Halleraker – Bondevik II, who was unable to pull up the path to the railway. One should not try to discharge himself from responsibility at all, for this is enough of a shared responsibility. If it was up to SV, we should of course make more of a promise in the years to come. That's what they say. I don't want to say that the interpellant underestimates itself when she claims that a process was started because of an interpellation. When it comes to Alnabru and how to do it on Alnabru, it is a process that the government party has been working on for a long time. That process probably started long before this interpellation, which I consider to be a certain pre-emption of a new national transport plan. Then it's funny, I thought, with the Progress Party trying to stand up as a champion of goods on the railway – 'you name it'. What is it that we know about the Progress Party? – No tolls, less car charges, more traffic on the roads. It is not about prioritizing the railway with the Progress Party. It is a matter of prioritizing even more vehicle trains on the roads. That is what is the practical policy when one is against all the tax regime and the highway robbery. Then it is even cheaper to drive a truck. Then one just ends up moaning and complaining about the government, but actually they have the most miserable policy itself to get more on the railway. Then it doesn't hang on to anything. I think that is a parliamentary expression. So some of the dilemma here is the financing of the railway. Hoksrud's highways roll out all the way because one has tolls. Had the tolls been gone, it might have been rolled out less. But now there are tolls, and they're rolled out. This means that the main competitor of the railway has access to new motorways and more money all the way, as opposed to the railway, which does not. In fact, in the red-green government, we have increased the railway's path to the 2013 budget by five times compared to 2005, but it is far from enough to re-enter the priorities of car traffic that occur every day in Norway. It's a central point – I think – when it comes to the national transport plan, to find a way that makes it fairer for rail investment in Norway than it is today, when one lives on the Gardermoen for 14 billion. kr without any decision by the Stortinget to do so, thereby facilitating increased air traffic. There were some interesting things from the interpellant. The one thing was tied up against ownership. I have always seen Right that they want more competition, more privatisation, more actors – and that makes everything so much cheaper. But now they've clearly turned around. I don't know if it's because they have 'looked to Sweden' and look at how it's been with the Swedes, who have done this, and who have to think about it again. I now understand that the Right actually is because the Railway Station – a modern railway station called it – has to operate the terminals, and it has to be one owner of the terminals. There is a new signal from the Right and, in my opinion, a positive signal – also for the railway. So I'm going to say that what I hear from the state council here today is just a new signal that now we're going to get started, now we're not going to sit down and see that the bill for a giant freight terminal just gets bigger and bigger. Now we're going to break this down, and then we're going to start building. I think it's a very sensible strategic approach that's been taken. Finally, let me just say that for Alnabru, there are a lot of possible solutions, not just that there's a lot of space needed. The Chinese are now building, according to Schenker, freight terminals at altitude, just so it shouldn't be so land-consuming. That's why it might be what's going to be the solution for Alnabru. Otherwise I have to say that as a train driver on freight trains from Trondheim to Stavanger it is excellent to drive with 30 train trains behind the locomotive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2334	It is environmentally sound to transport goods by road. It is also environmentally important to transport goods on the keel. There is an important debate taken up by the representative Schou in this interview. In Oslo, we say that the Alnabru Terminal and South Havna are Siamese twins. They have a cooperation that is very important for the transport flows of goods in the Oslo area and the other eastern area. Export goods are effectively closed through Oslo – from Alnabru to the container ports in South Havna. The import products shall be effectively closed on rv, mutatis mutandis. 190 and E6 between Oslo Havn and Alnabru. Railway terminals such as the one at Alnabru cannot be laid either in Oslo Harbour or at the other sea level. I also think I would strongly warn against launching a discussion about finding a new location for the freight terminal. Alnabru is an ideal location, not least because of the good and environmentally sound co-transport between Alnabru and Oslo Port. The jersey has been extended with a new container terminal. Southern ports have gained significantly greater capacity. The last stage of construction means that Sjursøya will take over the entire container port operation loaded over berth and that the Ormsund terminal will be shut down. The major disadvantage of the railway is that it cannot transport goods from the consignor to the consignee; it can only transport between railway stations. Alnabru is therefore important for transhipment from road to track and vice versa. The traffic situation in the Alnabru area is chaotic. Freight transport is carried out on old residential roads that are so narrow that it is impossible for trailers to meet. It is mixed with all other types of traffic in a way that is neither environmentally friendly, roadworthy nor efficient. The development and modernisation of the Alnabru terminal is very important. What must happen at the same time is the development of new access solutions. It's actually put out of money in Oslopackak 3. I think it would be very popular if the Minister of Transport could speed up this project so that we can have efficient and environmentally friendly freight management in the Alnabru area and in the rest of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2350	As a member of the Judicial Committee of the Storting, I cannot avoid engaging in this important debate on transport policy. The Government has decided to establish a Emergency Centre in Alnabru. In Norway, where we have so much space — and to some extent also in the Oslo area — two very important social institutions have to be placed on about the same site. So you can ask yourself what is the wisdom of that. This is not an article for the Emergency Centre. The establishment of an emergency centre in the Oslo area is extremely crucial and some opposition has long been called for. But what I am asking for is clarity from the Minister of Transport on what this will mean for the Alnabru terminal and possibly an extension of it. What we could hear in the Ostland broadcast on 29 August 2012 was: ‘The results of an emergency centre in Alnabru can become more heavy traffic on the roads. Alnabru is facing an uncertain future. Einar Spurkeland, the information manager of the Schenker freight giant.’ So Schenker is one of the largest freight companies in Europe. Some of the same has also been said by the head of LO in Oslo, on behalf of the members they have in the railway and logistics fields. That is why it is very important that we set up an emergency centre, but we need to ask questions about the wisdom of putting these two important institutions on the same site. Can the Minister for Transport say in his statement whether she is satisfied with the fact that the government has made this choice or whether this will have consequences for freight management and railway operations, which we have to deal with at a later stage and for which the consequences are not yet sufficiently known? I want to challenge the Minister of Transport at this point, so that we can get clarity on this now, because now we are at a stage where it is not too late to turn around. There are alternatives in the neighbourhood to which you can quickly go, including: an empty not so far away and one which is something farther away. It is a matter of being clear on what consequences this will have. I believe that we also need to look at the consequences for the cultural environment, not least when it has now come to the conclusion that setting up an emergency centre on Alnabru can take as much as eight to ten years. There will also be significant consequences for any further expansion of the Alnabru terminal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2370	The capacity of Alnabru is detonated. The capacity on the tracks to and from Alnabru is also a bottleneck. It is desirable and necessary for the environment to move more goods onto the road. I think we all agree on this. Interpellant is nervous that the expansion of capacity at the Alnabru terminal is not fast enough to escape the increase in freight transport. I understand this concern if you think that all the goods are going through Oslo. First of all, I just want to say that I'm very much a builder of the Alnabru terminal. And I am pleased with the approach of the Council of State, to a more gradual expansion. I think that's a wise approach. Then I guess the representative, Kernli, was in on what I want to do. It is probably not the case that all the expansion, especially not as space-consuming expansion as the expansion of a freight terminal, will take place in the middle of Oslo. It doesn't make any sense at all. In Hedmark, we have the solution to how we can escape some of the increase that will come to the Alnabru terminal. There is an extension of the freight terminal on Kongsvinger. There is much better space, and therefore also much more reasonable to expand. But the prerequisite for taking advantage of a freight terminal on Kongsvinger is that we electrify the Røros and Solørbahn. Electrification of this route is estimated at only 3,6 billion. kr. Yes, it's a lot of money, but in relation to the amount – it's actually a lot more than 400 km – it's not much money. It is very reasonable to extend this route and it is also very reasonable to build crossing tracks on the route. Such expansion will also give us double tracks between Oslo and Trondheim, one trail through the Gudbrand valley and the other through the Østerdalen. As a result, a good deal of goods — everything coming from the north of Norway — can be sent directly into Europe and must not enter the Alnabru bottleneck at all. It also frees up important capacity for passenger transport between Oslo and Lillehammer, and will be very important when intercity development is under way. It is then necessary to calculate some stops on existing track, and it will be difficult to increase freight transport as much as one wishes when a service disruption occurs. We also know that this year there was a longer break on the Dovreban because of race. Had the Røros and Solørbahn been electrified, one could have driven all the goods from the Dovrebahn onto that track. Today, some creative solutions have emerged here. Goods terminal on several floors is probably good and creative, but probably also swine-like expensive – I'm sorry, it was certainly not a parliamentary expression, so I didn't mean that. It may be good for countries where there is terrible bad space, but here in the country we actually have good space outside Oslo. So the answer is: step-by-step expansion of the Alnabru terminal, electrification of the Røros and Solørbahnen and construction of the freight terminal on Kongswinger.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2383	I think I would like to warn against these district posts that come about not being fully committed to good development and good maintenance of the Alnabru terminal. That's the first priority now -- it has to be. To the representative of Langeland: I do not think he has come entirely with me. A modernized railway station that owns, operates and handles the rails of Alnabru will be a variant à la Avinor, which allows you to compete and have a much greater effect. The fact is that after the interpellation was delivered, a letter was sent from the Council of State to the Railway Agency asking for a more step-by-step extension of the terminal – 19 November that letter was sent. Thank you very much for the debate! It has shown that there is a cross-political consensus that it is essential to expand the Alnabru terminal. However, developments in goods from road to road still go wrong, and government policy goes wrong. There is also a problem in this way that we are in arrears. It's not just to look forward to it, even if you've been working on it for many years, you're in arrears both with development, with maintenance and with using other types of skills and looking at other types of solutions, both in terms of building and financing. This results in a weakening of Norway’s competitiveness. It is not that I or Right, I think, are concerned about what is happening, but the trades, the carriers – the actors – are worried. They are concerned about the government's policy, they are concerned that we are not getting the modern solutions that you are actually asking for, and they are also worried that you are not getting a date when you are going to be done. That's the challenge of the Council of State as well, a date for the completion of step 1, step 2 and step 3 respectively – and then I hope we stop there. For whom is it that will invest in a terminal that is unknown in eight to ten years' time? It is also important to clarify and not to draw attention to district terminals. In the future, but now it's about Alnabru first and foremost, which is naved in all of Norway's freight transport. It's important that we get a different type of ownership of the Alnabru freight lines and get to compete. It is also important that we get maintenance, and I refer to the maintenance fund that we have actually set aside in our alternative budget. National transport plan: Very good, but it does not give way to well-being unless it is followed up by active time-keeping, financing and new methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2396	I think there's a reason to repeat it a little bit. The Railway Agency presented a master plan in 2010, showing costs of 10 billion. kr for a tripling of the capacity of Alnabru. The external quality assurance, which was completed this summer, asked some basic questions about that master plan, including: the volume and costs. The government has chosen to take some of the basic questions from the external quality assurances ad notem, in the sense that we have chosen to take as a basis a doubling of the volumes, and that one looks at what is called in the master plan construction step 1, which involves a doubling, but that one also suggests a step-by-step expansion in line with the need. This gives us first of all the opportunity to get started faster, and it's very important. Then it is not the end date that is important, but the most important thing is to get started quickly on the first step in order to modernise and develop the Alnabru terminal. I agree that the Alnabru terminal is important. It's a hub, and it's going to last. So I have to say that I think maybe it's a little bit contrived if we make a difference, which the interpellant tried to do at the end here, between terminals other places in the country and Alnabru. Alnabru is important and must remain, but other terminals around the country also meet very, very important needs. So now let's not go into the trap that we're making a difference here. So to a couple of the questions that have been asked. Both Kielland Asmyhr and Hoksrud were occupied by the Emergency Response Centre. I consider it entirely unproblematic that it is proposed to set up an emergency centre on a part of the site at Alnabru. I am not going to go further into the debate on the Emergency Centre – it belongs to another Council of State and another Committee – but just to state that it will not affect the terminal negatively with regard to the conclusions of the external quality assurance authorities on the doubling of the volumes of Alnabru in the years to come. I also agree, as the representative Myhre pointed out, that the Alnabru terminal is right and well where it is located. I am also concerned with the road systems towards Alnabru and not least from the port areas of Oslo and into Alnabru, but it is a question that it is natural for the government to come back to in connection with the national transport plan. I will not blame the previous government, and I can comfort the representative Halleraker that I owe not only to the previous government, but to many governments in the past, who have not taken the maintenance on the railway seriously. I sincerely believe that this government has for the first time done so, and kept the appropriations for maintenance at a high level. Then I am also surprised when Halleraker in turn starts blaming the government for something that is obviously the result of the financial crisis, namely the reduced volumes of goods from 2008 onwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2409	That being the case, it is no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2423	This is a matter of Norwegian approval of the EU Council Directive on common rules in the field of civil aviation. Civil aviation is an activity where it is very appropriate that rules exist between the countries affected by a flight. Already in 1947, the Chicago Convention on Civil Aviation was signed by 52 countries. It was the start of the so-called International Civil Aviation Organization, abbreviated ICAO, established in 1947, and Norway ratified this agreement on 5 May 1947. In addition to describing how ICAO is to be organised, the Chicago Convention facilitated the harmonisation of legislation and procedures to promote safety and simplify and streamline cross-border aviation. In Europe, a body of common rules on aviation safety, the European Aviation Safety Agency, was established in 2002, abbreviated by EASA. The purpose of EASA is to ensure a high and uniform level of aviation safety in Europe. EASA shall also contribute to a level playing field and financial savings for the aviation industry. The Agency has a total of 31 members: the 27 EU countries and Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Norway became a member of this on 1 June 2005 in connection with the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of an EU legislation containing common basic aviation safety provisions. This legislation also established EASA. Basic legislation under the responsibility of EASA is adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers, while technical implementing legislation is adopted by the European Commission after EASA has drawn up proposals. What we are about to decide today is an extension of the EASA area of competence through a Council Directive and the decision of the EEA Committee related thereto. This applies, inter alia, to: the certification of personnel and organisations involved in flight operations, the flight operations themselves and third-country operators. In addition, it is open that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, may, at the request of EASA, impose an infringement fee and periodic penalty payment when the holder of a certificate issued by EASA does not comply with the regulatory conditions of this certificate. The main objective is therefore to ensure a high level of safety in civil aviation through harmonised legislation in Europe. The Regulation makes it necessary to amend the Aviation Act in order to empower ESA to impose economic reactions if necessary. There is an overall committee which here submits its recommendation of consent to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee. 163/2011 of 19 December 2011. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2460	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that four lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2469	The Council of Europe Anti-corruption Committee, GRECO, has assessed the Norwegian part-financing and made a number of amendments. This has now been followed up by the government and proposed changes based on the recommendations. However, the government has also proposed other changes that do not result from the GRECO recommendations. The Committee has been consulted on many of the amendments, while there is disagreement in other areas. An overall opposition is united on a number of proposals, and in addition, the different opposition parties have their own proposals in addition. I expect the government parties and the opposition to present their own proposals. However, an overall committee is committed to ensuring that the legislation on the financing of the parties should contribute to good democratic processes and to transparency. At the same time, it is important that the law on voluntary work in the service of democracy does not become more bureaucratic than necessary. The Committee points out that voluntary work in small lot associations is part of forms and reporting obligations to scare many away from trust, and that this may in turn lead to poorer recruitment to local political work. The Committee recalls that the basis for the present Party Law was laid by the Committee on Subsidiary Financing, NOU 2004: 25. The selection power at most essential points to provide an overall setting. The proposition focuses on the law of the parties and on the funding of the political parties, the use of money and the specific use of money in the election campaign. The Committee notes that GRECO has a specific focus on voters’ demands for transparency about the electoral budgets of the parties, but will at the same time point out that equal budgets are used by large organisations both within and outside the labour market to influence voters’ votes. The Committee would point out that it is an international phenomenon that large funds are channelled outside the parties in the election campaign and that there is a need for more transparency in this respect also in Norway. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party ask the Government to set up a selection to ascertain whether transparency considerations are sufficiently protected by legislation relating to campaigns and money use from sources other than the political parties. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Proposition proposes that the batch organisations also provide expenditure accounts. The Committee notes that GRECO is opposed to the conclusion of the Lot Funding Committee, which considered that the grounds for introducing such reporting were weaker than the arguments for not doing so. The Committee notes that the main justification given by the GRECO, which the Ministry submits, is that the voters should be able to see how the tax money is used by the batches. The Committee agrees with the proposal for the introduction of an obligation to provide expenditure accounts, but would stress that this should not compromise the autonomy of the lots to apply the batch aid freely, without the State having to monitor or impose conditions on the use of the aid. On a general basis, the opposition is skeptical of public control over what democratic political parties spend their resources. Supervision can be seen as a potential democratic problem. The Government proposes, in violation of the Committee on Budgets, in particular the reporting of electoral campaign contributions above NOK 10 000. In the opinion of the opposition, instead of specific rules for election campaigns, it would be better to have a continuous publication of reportable contributions, at least every four weeks. The batches should be subject to continuous flagging of contributions above the thresholds, at least at a central level. Contributions received on Friday before the election day will not be published before the election day due to delays in bank systems. The opposition also points to the fact that several batches already publish contributions on their websites, on the basis of such a self-imposed deadline, and considers that it will comply with GRECO’s recommendation if such self-reporting is made mandatory for all batches. This follow-up to the GRECO recommendations to Norway is of course important. But at the same time, I ask a lot of questions about whether the parties are going to present absolutely everything they do now, for public access. While it is clear that contributions made to the political parties should be made in public, we are questioning whether it is necessary to have own rules for election campaigns with their own limits on the amount of contributions to be made before they are published. On that basis, we think it is unfortunate that there is so much political disagreement about this. The party law should be something that all the parties stood together about. I am disappointed that the government has not made any more effort to have contact with the political parties before this matter was brought forward. I am addressing those proposals where the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2497	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2500	There is a broad consensus on how to follow up the GRECO recommendations to Norway, and that is good. The fight against corruption must be waged on many fronts and with the best available instruments. It is important that we improve our efforts wherever possible at all times. Norway has a good reputation in GRECO. We must maintain that reputation, and broad political consensus is an important prerequisite for that. There are, however, some aspects of this matter that there is disagreement. The first relates to the transparency of party financing, and in particular election campaign contributions, which were also addressed by the case-rapporteur. I want to take the opportunity to congratulate the Right Party on a good day, because today morning I could read in the Newspaper that Stein Erik Hagen has now changed since the last election, and has given 1 million. kr to the right via its company Canica AS. I guess it's an arrangement that both parties can say they've earned. It is quite natural to support the party with which you most agree, and with which you share your view of society. It is publicly known that Stein Erik Hagen will liquidate the property tax, and then it is not unnatural that he chooses to support the Right. I also read in the Newspaper that the Right is pleased with the contribution. Then we're going to hope that Stein Erik Hagen doesn't feel hung out of the government parties even though this is now being referred to from the Parliament's pulpit. In its third recommendation, GRECO asks that Norway assess the obligation to report income received and expenditure collected in the context of election campaigns. I am pleased that the Department is not only careful to assess measures, but also proposes a legislative change to follow up the recommendation. There were only two of the parties on the Stortinget, the Right and the Advance Party, who were negative to the proposal for a specific reporting obligation for electoral campaign contributions in the hearing. The working party believes it is important that voters are familiar with financial contributions and financial commitments to individuals before they vote. We have noticed that the government has carefully assessed the relationship between benefits and costs, and that it has put the emphasis on GRECO's assessments as an international expert body on batch financing. Against this background, we support the government's proposal for transparency in election campaign contributions. I would like to stress that it is entirely right to give money to the political parties that one believes promotes the direction of society or the things one is most concerned with. Stein Erik Hagen, and others, give money to the Right because they won't pay taxes on wealth. It is obvious that this is known, so there are no speculations or doubts about the batch support in retrospect. If it's not known, it can give ground to corruption and bad bonds. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party do not support the proposal for the obligation to publish contributions during the election campaign before the election day. Then I have to ask: if an individual gives 1 million. kr to one of the Oslo parties during the last two weeks of the campaign, will there not be any obligation to publish this before the elections? Don't the voters have a right to know about it? Wouldn't it be able to give ground to speculation and suspicion in retrospect? And why do these parties want to have the opportunity to keep this secret before the election? The second point in this case is that the Right, along with the Christian People's Party, believes that income deductions or tax reliefs should be granted for gifts to political parties. We in the Labour Party disagree with that. The proposal will mean reaching, for example: Christen Sveaas gave the Right half a million dollars in support in 2011, so the Right wants to get him back, given that you have a tax rate of 28 p.m., approx. 140000 kroner from the fund. We do not think it is right that Sveaas should get money back from the public register when he gives money to the Right – or to the Workers' Party for that matter. And to get the counter-argument in advance, there's a difference between getting income deductions for a union quota of SEK 7 000 with an effective tax deduction of NOK 1960 and getting income deductions of SEK half a million. I think all the parties in this room are concerned that we should have orderly working conditions, and the right has now also recognised that the income deduction for the union quota is an important contribution to that. In addition, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party want a higher reporting threshold for political parties. It, along with the other contributions, makes it seem that the parties are concerned about keeping things hidden or wanting less transparency. When I keep this together with the heavy argument for less transparency around the tax lists, I have to ask myself if there is secrecy that is the most important thing for the opposition. I do not understand the argument that there is no support for the proposal to have transparency about election contributions. Does the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party really believe that this is not relevant information for voters until they choose which party to vote for?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2526	Proclaimer Trond Helleland has done well for this case in a good way. In addition, Mr Sivertsen, the Labour Party, has also spoken. What has been the most important thing for the Progress Party is that this should be at least bureaucratic and at least as extensive as possible, especially when it comes to the voluntary work carried out in the parties around the country. There are these thresholds important. There are thresholds in relation to accounting obligations, bookkeeping obligations and reporting obligations, as the majority then considered to be NOK 12 000, but as the opposition believes should be raised to NOK 20 000. The Progress Party has also argued that quota revenue should be kept out of this calculation, because we do not see that there are quota revenue from the members to be controlled. I record that the majority will not be involved in raising the threshold, and the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will not agree that the quota revenue should be kept outside. It's a shame that you can't raise this amount, because it means a lot of extra work for relatively small party teams around the country. This is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled a motion for a resolution. 8 about this. If that proposal falls, we will subsidize proposal No. 11, from Right and Christian People's Party. The Progress Party has also considered whether it should consider maximising the amount of gift that can be given to a political party. We have also put forward a proposal on this. We're on our own. We think that an explanation of whether it might have been interesting and sensible to get an assessment. Elles has the Right Party and the Christian People's Party put forward proposals on the deduction of gifts to a political party. The amount involved, etc., is not mentioned in the proposal, but the Progress Party has in any case not joined this proposal. We think it's high time we cleaned up this area, because today, as already mentioned, one can subtract from a union quota, and this quota can go to a political party. So one indirectly has a tax advantage of money that comes to the political party, and in order to get equal treatment when it comes to it, it should also be possible to give it directly, with a ceiling on how much you can give. For the time being, we have not accepted the proposal, but we will continue to consider how it should be done. We also have a proposal asking for an assessment of the extent to which an organisation receiving public support should be prevented from giving gifts to a political party. There we can imagine that there is a non-profit that receives state support for the state budget, and then there would be a little bit of a mistake if the person could give a gift back to the political parties that have secured it. We have put forward a proposal that one should consider cleaning up this. We haven't got multiples for that. Otherwise, it's obvious that the position has been very focused on this with the reporting of gifts, whether it's going to be done on an ongoing basis, as the opposition thinks, or whether one should have special rules in monetary years. For the Progress Party, it has been important to have practical rules, and, as the case-speaker also pointed out, it is difficult to see that it is practically possible for a gift to be given Friday before the election, to be able to report this before the Monday elections. So it's simplification and least possible bureaucracy that has the idea of the Progress Party behind this, and it's also the idea behind what I've already mentioned when it comes to raising thresholds and things like that – that one should not impose unnecessary work and taxation on voluntary teams and organizations and political parties working on voluntary work. They must not get unnecessary red tape from the work they do. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals behind the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2545	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2548	Norway has been and will continue to be a leading country in the fight against corruption. Transparency, transparency and control are important components of anti-corruption work. In a democratic perspective, it is particularly important that citizens have confidence in public authorities and confidence in political parties. Today, when we adopt some amendments to the Party Act, it is in order to maintain and strengthen confidence in the adoption of political decisions on the basis of democratic principles. By following the recommendations of GRECO, we also conclude on the work of the Council of Europe in the area of anti-corruption, which an overall committee believes it is right to do. Although we in Norway – and I would just like to say – are proud that we have little corruption, we can continue to learn from the work done by other countries to prevent and combat corruption. In the proposition, it's going to be, for example, stated that Norway is the only country in GRECO that has so far delimited the accounting obligation to income accounts only. Although the risk of corruption is considered small in Norway, I think it is good that we now do something about this. In the opinion, the Committee is clear that policy work at local level is based on voluntary and unpaid efforts. Several parties have struggled with the fact that it may be difficult to get people to take on political responsibilities. It is therefore important that the legislative changes affecting voluntary policy activities be designed and practised in such a way that it becomes simple and as bureaucratic as possible. I believe that the amendments that are being adopted today are well-balanced. The obligation to submit annual income accounts is extended to complete accounts, but in the same way as in the past, about 80 pst. by the lot layers carefully with simplified reporting. It means a statement that the lot layer does not have more than NOK 12000 in revenue during the year — after the withdrawal of public aid. It is assumed that new accounting and bookkeeping regulations are to be easily understood. There is also a pre-requisite that the SSB arranges a good reporting guide, and Participation will be entrusted with a guidance responsibility towards the parties. In total, I think this will take care of the small parties with voluntary labour and limited financial resources. The central party also supports the proposal for increased transparency in the funding of election campaigns. It is important that voters are familiar with financial contributions and any commitments to individuals before voting. We have noticed that the government has assessed the benefits and costs of introducing this reporting obligation and that the emphasis has been placed on GRECO's assessments as an international expert body on the topic of batch financing. It is important to point out that although the system involves increased transparency as to the use of revenue by batches, there are no restrictions on the autonomy of the batches as to their use of the batch support. In particular, in a country such as Norway, with a high level of public party financing, it is important to ensure the independence of the parties and that there are no public commitments as to the way in which the party teams dispose of their funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2567	It is invaluable for the legitimacy of the parties and support of the people that they act openly and transparently. That is why the Christian People's Party welcomes proposals that can strengthen transparency, and at the same time neither weakens democracy, the political work, nor the fantastic commitment we see the country over. It is important that tasks to enhance transparency and transparency in batches do not lead to a large form fields and reporting needs and adversely affect the willingness to engage in policy making. I'm among those who fear that this law change may be a step in that direction. We see that the locality already spends a lot of time and resources on reporting. It is important that not political work is drowned out by formalities and forms, but that the burning commitment to changing communities, regions, country or world remains alive. I'm afraid that ever-increasing reports, forms and deadlines will increase the risk of losing a number of political resources, people who actually participated in making a difference politically, but who were met by a wall of formalities. At the same time, I do not want to underestimate the importance of a good code of conduct for the operation of lots in order to ensure that the Community's money provided through the batch support is properly managed, and of course in line with its purpose. And then here we have to be able to find a golden middleway. An overly unclear and loose regulation could give rise to speculation as to whether the parties manage the money as intended, thus damaging democracy. At the same time, too rigid a regulation could create an unnecessary amount of bureaucracy, which, on its part, could lead to even fewer active participation in political work. As stated by an overall committee, there have been no significant elements or experiences that indicate that the party law we have today has shortcomings that require significant restrictions to ensure transparency or to counteract corruption. Having said this, I would like to make it clear that the Christian People's Party is behind the government's many proposals for change. However, there is a need for clarification in particular in one area, namely funding. I am concerned about the signal that has come from the government that the costs associated with the administration of the scheme are to be financed through the party support. There has not been a real growth in party support in recent years, which has resulted in smaller resources for political work for parties – especially those who do not have large party apparatus and good back support. A further restriction on the batch aid will affect in particular some batches. First of all, it is a democratic challenge that parties are increasingly forced to move from independent – or neutral – support through the state to support organisations, firms or individuals providing support for one purpose. It gives shifts in society, where the wallet gives a stronger voice and increased influence. That is why I see it as natural that the government does not ease this bill on the parties, but itself takes responsibility for administration and funding. Finally, I would like to commend the rapporteur for a very good work, in which both the positive aims and effects of the legislative proposals, as well as the challenges of implementation, have been well highlighted. In conclusion, in terms of tax deductions – as we suggest – we think it should be the same as with tax deductions to voluntary teams and organisations, the sum of which is NOK 12 000, so there is no uncertainty about what we mean by this, and what amounts we talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2588	Norway has a high profile in international anti-corruption work. We're giving expression to zero tolerance of corruption. Norway is one of the best countries in international corruption studies. I show you, among other things: to the World Bank's report from last autumn, where we achieved very high scores. Although the risk of corruption in political systems in Norway is considered to be low, it is important that we demonstrate the will and ability to prevent it. Only in this way can we maintain confidence that political decisions are made on the basis of democratic principles. It is important to demonstrate that financial contributions by individuals and organisations do not give political influence beyond the usual electoral power. By following the recommendations of GRECO, we show that we are taking seriously the work of securing democracy. In many countries, particular transparency in electoral funding has been seen as a very important part of public access rights – for voters to have up-to-date information on economic ties between the party, candidates and contributors before they go to elections. Today, Norwegian voters are given access to batches from 9 to 21 months of age on election day. In addition to the age of data, Norway has relatively high thresholds for the reporting of identity of donor. The government's proposal to give the identity of donors behind contributions above NOK 10 000 during the election campaign must be said to be a fairly liberal one. For comparison, the requirement is set as low as $50 in the United States, without it looking to have alarmed anyone. Current reporting before the election day of election year gives transparency to voters and competing parties in the main part of the election campaign period. The Committee focuses on the channelling of large funds outside the parties in the election campaign, and there is a need for more transparency in this respect also in Norway. I refer to the fact that this is addressed in the bill by the fact that the scheme will also include contributions to organisations and entities directly or indirectly controlled by a lot or lot or otherwise linked to the lots. The Government proposes that the obligation to submit annual income accounts be extended to complete accounts. This will make it easier to check that the revenue reported is correct and complete. About 80 pst. therefore, the batch layers may continue to be closely involved in simplified reporting due to the thresholds. Specific transparency in electoral funding is, in my opinion, an important part of public access rights. The voters shall have up-to-date information on economic ties between the parties, candidates and contributors before they go to elections. The government's proposal to give the identity of donors behind contributions above NOK 10000 during the election campaign takes particular account of increased transparency of voters during the main period. Furthermore, specific independence and rotation requirements for party auditors are proposed. The requirement to change the statutory auditor every eight years, compared with seven years in the statutory auditor's law, has been included on a proposal in a joint opinion of the parties at Stortinget. Where the parties are given the power to verify the accuracy of the information provided, this information shall relate to the financing involved. Particular attention has been paid to the possibility for the batches themselves to contribute to the clarification of individual dossiers before any further inspection is carried out. The Audit Board, hereinafter referred to as the Supervisory Body, also has, on its proposal, guidance tasks with regard to the lot layers. Lottery, as many have been involved, is voluntary work by persons with no formal competence. Particular attention needs to be paid to this in designing administrative sanctions and penalties, as proposed in the legal texts. It is an important amending law adopted today. I am determined that the whole law will come into force as soon as possible. The obligation to report election contributions is applicable to the 2013 Grand Prix elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2620	The Progress Party has submitted a proposal that institutions and organisations receiving direct support from the State should not be able to participate in and provide electoral support to political parties. Does the Council of State not see that it may be a challenge for organisations that receive State aid to receive money from the government — even funds granted directly by a Council of State — and that these organisations grant money back to the party of the Council of State? Doesn't the Council at all see any problems with that, when we're doing this to prevent corruption and make sure there's some kind of margin of play?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2629	The point the representative of Ørsal Johansen makes is to follow closely. But we have no concept of whether this is a problem today, because we do not have an overview of how the reporting is. In the light of the new systems that are now being set up, we will have the full opportunity to assess whether this is actually a problem. I have registered that the Progress Party in the vote has, as far as I understand, a proposal on indirect and direct support for organisations. It may be a demanding constraint to look at what is indirect support, so that's what we have to get back to when, through the new reporting procedures, we see whether this is an actual problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2636	The Council of State was concerned about this with transparency and that it was covered by the fourth paragraph of Section 20, namely, where the opposition has the following proposal that a ‘set up a selection to examine whether transparency considerations are adequately addressed in legislation relating to campaigns and money use from sources other than political parties’. The majority and the Council of State then refer to Section 20, fourth paragraph, which implies transparency in: ‘Contributions to organisations or entities directly or indirectly controlled by or otherwise linked to the lot or lot.’ There's no problem. The problem is the opposite when large organisations that are not controlled by the Labour Party or the Right, for example. NHO or LO, make large contributions or run their own campaigns in the context of an election campaign. Does not the Council of State consider there any reason to consider how these organisations influence the outcome of a choice and that a sample looks at the transparency of that choice? I expect the Council of State does not believe that the LO is controlled by the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2653	I can confirm that in no way is it felt that the LO was controlled by the Workers' Party. I don't think the NHO is controlled by the Right either. I think it's very transparent about the fact that organisations other than the political parties and those they control have views that they carry on and produce in an election campaign. I think there's a great deal of openness about that, and I think we, as voters, are able to see that it's part of the freedom of expression that organizations have, without us having to incorporate it and put down a public sample that identifies that it's happening during a campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2660	I said in my post that I was concerned about the signals that came from the government that this system should be financed from the party support, that is, sending the bill to the parties. This I think will go out on especially some games. We're talking about five to six million. kr. Does the Council of State really think it reasonable that this should be financed by the parties, and not by the government itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2667	Once we've estimated a cost of between five million. NOK 6 million. kr in the proposition, I think it's at least the other way around, because the reporting systems that are established in the SSB today are relatively unbureaucratic, and I don't think there will be that much cost associated with it. Once a year, we set up a budget and give appropriations for different purposes. The level of appropriations to be allocated to the operation of the political parties must be returned to the annual budgets. It is free to provide guidance for both the use of the existing batch aid and, where appropriate, to increase the allocation of the lots, so as to cover the costs incurred under the present scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2674	On my first question, I understood that instead of adopting a law that prevents unfortunate episodes from occurring and preventing corruption-like episodes, the Council of State will wait until such irregularities or unfortunate episodes occur before she does anything. So she won't stop, but she'll go in when it happens. Have I understood the Council correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2686	The law today lays down rules for companies owned or partly owned by the public, which are included in today's party law. I understand that what the Progress Party is saying is that this should include organisations that are directly or indirectly supported by the State through various support schemes. It is then necessary to look at the organisations that now benefit from different schemes that the State has, for example: the reduction of the employer’s contribution will be particularly affected. The representative Ørsal Johansen cannot say that there is no indirect support for those organisations. Before we've seen that this is actually a problem, at least I'll have seen evidence of it. I don't want to define it as corruption, as the representative Ørsal Johansen does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2691	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2694	I thank you for many good posts. However, there was one post that was more marked by being a kind of start to the election campaign than being an input into a debate on party financing. It was the representative Sivertsen who stood and rejoiced that he had found out that Stein Erik Hagen had contributed to the Right. Yes, he finds it out because he can go into the Right website – there is all the financial contributions Right have been received in 2012. We publish it continuously. I tried now, while I was sitting in the hall, to find the corresponding side of the Workers' Party that showed the contributions they received in 2012. I couldn't find that side. It's possible I'm not familiar with the structure of the Workers' Party, but now Councillor Rigmor Aasrud is going to find it – it's going to be very good. Our point is that we want a continuous publication of contributions. It is a subject of controversy in which an overall opposition considers that the rule proposed for separate amounts in election years and for publication three days before the election is such an important point that it is to be made a specific provision of the law. We want to have a general law that continuously gives the same obligations. That's why it's wrong to stand on the pulpit of the Stortinget and complain that there's actually transparency about contributions to the Right. It just shows that this works. I didn't quite understand the point of Sivertsen when he talked about that we were almost trying to keep things secret, and then it's the opposite that's the fact, and that then Sivertsen can enjoy and make cheap political points out of. What is important with a party law is that there is agreement on the main elements of it. Fortunately, in this case the opposition and the position differ in very many areas. The fact that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have so many common proposals, warns that if there were to be a change of government, there would probably be a new round of party law. I don't think it's very lucky, and that's why I think the processing done here is too bad. When one knows that Martin Kolberg was part of the Party Funding Committee in 2004-2005, which was able to bring together the parties on a common scheme for party financing, I find it alarming that today's Red-Green Government – which sits with a marginal majority on the Stortinget, not in the people – makes its own rules and adapts the rules to its rules. Here, the parties should have been consulted in another way, and attempts should have been made to reach an agreement on this party law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2704	My attempt to please me on behalf of the Right and avoid that they also have significant contributions to both party activity and election campaign, obviously fell on rock and was perceived as cheap political points. I'm just sorry about that. I'm glad that the Right is open about this, just as the Working Party is. Although we clearly have something to learn about how easy it is to find out on the websites, the Workers' Party is also continuously publishing its gifts online. We've always been open about it, and we're going to stay open about it. The difference between us and the Right in this case is precisely linked to the fact that we believe it is crucial for the voters to be familiar with the economic bonds that need to exist before they go to the polls. That is why we want to have a special arrangement related to election contributions, to have this on the table before the election day, whether it be contributions to the Workers' Party or to the Right – which they have now received from Stein Erik Hagen, as we can read in the Newspaper, where I read it and not on the Right's websites. We got a simple clarification from the Christian People's Party today that they wanted a cap on the tax exemption they have proposed. It's not in the proposal, so it must be good to get on the table. The representative Confessor was concerned with the bureaucratic nature of reporting and reporting obligations related to the thresholds. I have also been a party leader in a – in Norwegian context – relatively large local team, so we were covered by the reporting. It was very unbureaucratic. The exercise we do in our own party teams related to our own annual meeting – keeping an account, accounting for revenue and keeping order of the system – was much more demanding. This isn't a more work, it's just that more people get insight into it. I agree with the representative of Greece – as I said in my first post – that having broad political consensus is a good condition for success in the work. But it's not that that goal is necessarily all over the board. In this case, which relates to the transparency of contributions before the elections, we therefore believe that it is crucial – as I said instead – that the voters are familiar with any bindings that exist before they go to the ballot boxes, because for some it can be decisive for which party they want to support and who they do not want to support. That's the way it sometimes is. Although we have a desire for consensus, sometimes some values go ahead of others. We have placed greater emphasis on transparency because we believe it prevents corruption, rather than taking into account that it brings some additional costs and disadvantages to some organizational workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2715	It was Trond Helleland's representative who invited me to make a little comment on my part. We have had several meetings with the Secretary-General of the political parties. The political parties have even issued a joint consultation opinion. That was interesting. What was even more interesting was that there was no more than a couple of days before there came own hearings from the different parties – at least from one of them – that were not in accordance with what was the common opinion. It wasn't quite easy to keep track of what you really meant. I can also inform you that if you press the Press button on the Workers' Party website, you will find the election campaign contributions back to 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2722	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2736	Development is primarily created by sound national policies. International relations are important, but the choice of countries to meet globalisation and the desire of their own citizens for a better everyday life is crucial. Political institutions and processes ensuring the distribution of power, the rule of law, democracy and human rights are central. In addition, openness comes to the outside world, which stimulates trade and private investment. In the right, greater emphasis will be placed on the organisation of local authorities for their own economic development. An open economy with stable framework conditions conducive to local and foreign investment, contributing to increased trade, is a prerequisite to generate tax revenues for public services and to grow out of poverty. The world as a whole has had an amazing prosperity development. First of all, it's because of it. economic growth that 450 million people have been working out of poverty in the last 15 years. It's happened especially in countries like China, India and Vietnam. In the last 50 years, the average income in the world has tripled. The common denominator is a more open economy and extensive international trade. Trade is the strongest driver of economic growth and thus of the ability to create jobs and economic prosperity. There are still too many poor, but at the same time there is good reason to rejoice that the proportion of poor is at its lowest ever. Already in 1994, researchers at Princeton University published a research report showing a positive correlation between wealth levels and environmental protection. This context has since been repeated in a number of publications. For the right, this is very important. On the one hand, we need economic growth in order for new millions of people to be able to work out of poverty, but at the same time we depend on greenhouse gas emissions and environmental damage to be drastically reduced. Another key development is that both the number of democracies and the proportion of the population living in democracies is increasing. According to Freedom House, three-quarters of all countries are free or partially free. The number of democracies has doubled in the last 30 years. There are no democracies without a market economy. Transparency and freedom of choice are fundamental rights to give people power and influence. Free trade and property rights are also key components. Closed countries are only able to provide economic growth and well-being for their own population to a very limited extent. Oxfam calculated that if Africa increased its share of world exports by only one percent, it would generate increased revenues of about 70 billion. dollar. In 2006, the World Bank estimated that foreign workers sent home 250 billion. dollar. Only because of tax evasion is it estimated that developing countries lose 160 billion. dollars a year. In addition, there is an illegal flow of capital. The right-wing objectives of development policy are to contribute to increased democratisation, to the realization of human rights and to the sustainable working out of poverty. The right will never accept the cross-cutting nature of development policy. It is important to emphasise coherence in development policy, i.e.: to help all Norwegian policies towards poor countries move in the same direction, whether in terms of trade policy, aid, education policy or health policy. All countries, including poor countries, have the primary responsibility to enforce political, civil, economic, social and cultural rights for their inhabitants. The right also believes that Norwegian development policy should play a role with local policy authorities where possible, and encourage local ownership of priorities and projects financed by Norwegian funds. Such a desire builds upon, and builds upon, democracies, and we will demand that we also accept decisions that we do not necessarily agree with. But developments that go across universal human rights, the Right will always respond strongly to them. It is economic growth that has been the strongest factor for, and the contributor to, the vast majority of people who have worked out of poverty in the last 15 years. Therefore, it is a primary objective of the Right that our development policy should contribute to economic growth. Economic differences between countries generally decline because emerging economies are growing faster than the most developed economies. Here's the big inequality. At the same time, differences are increasing internally in a number of countries, both in terms of income and access to basic welfare services. Discriminating and poor population groups in most regions do not participate in economic growth. Of course, growth needs to be distributed in order to honour the rights of the poorest. There are a number of reasons for poor distribution beyond lack of or poor distribution policies. Discrimination and non-regulation are the two most important explanations in many countries. It is important to highlight the link between distribution and growth growth. For the Right, it is important that each cooperating country should have greater ownership of its own economic development. Right-wing wants to support the efforts of the co-operative countries to strengthen their education and health systems so that the poor have access to welfare services. Strengthening the tax system will also be an important instrument. In this way, we can contribute to fulfilling the rights of poor and marginalised populations. The development of the tax system and the distribution of growth are up to each country, but we can contribute with our competence. The majority of the world's poor are in middle-income countries. It is primarily a distribution challenge, not a development problem. Democratisation, equal rights to education and enhanced civil society are more appropriate instruments to address this problem, as well as national distribution policies. Zero growth makes it impossible to combat poverty – the main threat to life. But growth at the cost of the environment makes it impossible to preserve the most important source of life – our natural heritage. Right will pursue a coherent development policy aimed at increasing democratisation, respect for human rights and helping people to work long-term out of poverty. The objectives must also lead Norwegian trade policy. Norwegian self-interests must subside where they conflict with these objectives. In parallel with significant aid efforts, Norway has maintained high customs barriers and defended a trade policy that creates effective barriers to the export opportunities of developing countries. It is striking to see the contradictions in Norwegian policy. The OECD has estimated that agricultural aid in developed countries amounts to 300 billion. dollar per year, nearly three times as much as all official assistance. Improving the opportunities for developing countries to participate in the global economy is a prerequisite for people to work long-term out of poverty. Trade and economic growth are the strongest driving forces. Corruption is one of the strongest obstacles to economic development. Corruption undermines the rule of law and democracy, leads to decisions that are contrary to the interests of the community and deterrent to investors. Unfortunately, it is the poorest who are hit hardest by corruption. They cannot afford to pay bribes to safeguard their rights and must bear the main burden of the impact of corruption on the economy, employment and the environment. The fight against corruption thus becomes a crucial part of the fight against poverty and a very important tool for giving individuals more power over their own lives. In the right, greater emphasis will be placed on the organisation of economic development by local authorities. An open economy with stable framework conditions that promotes local and foreign investment and increases trade is a prerequisite for this. The concrete measures to be taken to ensure good governance will necessarily vary from country to country, as different countries face different challenges. However, for the Right, the objectives of parliamentary control, control of civil society authorities, capacity building and anti-corruption will underpin development policy regardless of national variation. To make poverty response more effective, more targeted efforts are needed especially towards vulnerable groups. It is crucial to address ever-increasing differences, including in middle-income countries. Girls and women, especially those living in rural areas, belong to many vulnerable groups. 70 pst. of the world's poor are girls and women. In its 2011 annual report, the World Bank showed that discrimination against women slows down economic growth and that gender equality is one of the most effective instruments in the fight against poverty. Furthermore, the World Bank says that more political participation by women leads to better public services, such as water supply, schooling and less corruption. The UN Secretary-General has argued that gender inequality is slowing development within all the eight thousand-year targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2782	I would like to start by saying a thousand thanks to Peter Skovholt Gitmark for drawing up this debate. We're going to deliver a big message in the New Year about just fair distribution, democracy and growth, and taking an initial debate and hearing what the opposition is bringing to square is interesting to us. I think that's a good opportunity for us, and also a good opportunity for the opposition to make recordings for the big shot. The overall objective of Norwegian development policy is poverty reduction and fair distribution. The reason is that fighting for societies with little differences is fighting for communities where there is more trust between people. Trust between people is essential for having good societies where people can live good lives, and it is also crucial for economic growth. American Economic Review vol. 100 concluded that trust between people in a society is the single most important factor in creating growth in a society — not spectacular. These are values that we also set high in Norwegian society. Sustainable economic growth is a prerequisite for poverty reduction, especially in the poorest countries. But growth alone is not a sufficient prerequisite. To get good societies, to get good development in developing countries, the inequalities between people need to be reduced. Too many inequalities are not only negative for society, but it inhibits economic growth and keeps more in poverty than a fairer and wiser policy would do. This is the experience we have gained in Norway and the Nordic countries, and it is supported by more recent development research. As is known, several developing countries have experienced high economic growth over a number of years. This has contributed significantly to the decline of extreme poverty in the world. The World Bank believes that UN Millennium Goal No. 1 – that the proportion of lye poor in 2015 is halved compared to 1990 – was already reached in 2010. Those who are lukewarm – a bit of that word – live for less than $1.25 a day, i.e. for $7-8, and the World Bank estimates that in 2008 there were 620 million fewer people living below this poverty line than in 1990. The number of low-income countries was also halved between 2000 and 2011, from 66 to 32 countries, and there is a positive trend. But the World Bank's calculations also show that there has been a great deal more that is only slightly above the ‘lut poverty limit’ of $1.25 a day to live for, which means that a large growth has led to a limited standard of living for the poorest, and the danger of falling back into ‘lut poverty’ is far too many. In addition, the greatest poverty reduction has taken place in Asia, and especially in China. Africa in particular is lagging behind – not least due to high population growth and unfair distribution. Now, far more than before, the world's poorest lives in the 108 countries that, according to the World Bank, were middle-income countries in 2011, on which the inter-pellant Skovholt Gitmark lived. It actually means that more than seven out of ten of those who live and are lye poor live in those countries that are middle-income countries. So the vast majority of the poorest now live in middle-income countries. I believe that it speaks for us to focus much more on inland distribution than we have done before to reach the poorest. If we just pursue a development policy towards the poorest countries, we will refrain from doing anything for 70 pst. by the world's poorest, and at least that's something that our government isn't prepared to do. This is also important because more recent research under the auspices of the World Bank shows that high economic growth itself does not lead to better distribution within countries. In other words, the proportion of poor people in a country does not necessarily decrease even if the country experiences high growth and the number of poor people falls. Moreover, the higher the economic disparities in a country initially, the higher the growth needs to be in order to reduce the proportion of the poor. World Bank analyses show that economic growth is leading to the greatest poverty reduction in countries with a high degree of economic equality. On the other hand, growth in countries with large differences has little or no effect on the proportion of poor. The researchers conclude that the ability of growth to reduce poverty depends on inequality. In other words, if you are concerned about combating poverty, you need to be concerned with a fair distribution policy in those countries where you want to achieve growth. Two examples can illustrate this: Indonesia had negative economic growth at the end of the 1990s, but managed to reduce the proportion of the poor through active redistribution policies. In other words, growth is not necessary to eliminate the poor, but redistribution policies are necessary to achieve it. In Peru, on the other hand, the proportion of poor people in defiance rose to almost 4 pst. average economic growth in the decade since 1997. In other words, growth does not necessarily lead to a fair distribution and elimination of poverty. This shows how important a fair and wise distribution policy is. One of the things that we've at least been kneeling very clearly is that inequality is necessary to free up capital for investment, is completely wrong. The Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz said it very clearly in the first BBC program that was about abolishing poverty. He said very clearly that the belief that only you have economic growth, you get a trickle down effect, that is, that the growth spreads down to everyone, now something we recognize is just nonsense! Important reasons why high levels of inequality can hamper economic growth are that it can contribute to the reduction of cohesion and trust in society, to conflict, and to the weakening of institutions, democratic accountability, transparency and criticism. We also know that large differences in access to education and health weaken growth capacity, because it creates inequality in opportunities. Effective poverty reduction in developing countries requires policies that promote growth – with jobs and fair distribution. As the Asian Bank says, growth and equality can be seen as parts of a good circle: greater equality in society facilitates higher growth. An active redistribution policy has three beneficial effects: it reduces poverty in the short term; it facilitates the more effective reduction of poverty in future growth; and it improves opportunities for long-term growth. A doctoral thesis at the University of Oslo in 2010 found that economic growth has historically been higher in democracies than in authoritarianly driven countries. You can find one dictator who's busy with his people, but you rarely find three pieces in a row. This is particularly important for middle-income countries, which have more to distribute, and where most poor people live. The average income here is higher than in the poorest countries, but it is very unevenly distributed. Research suggests that the scale of redistribution in the same country does not need to be large in order to eradicate extreme poverty in the country — in most countries less than 1pst has been suggested. of gross domestic product. In other words, it does not take much to eliminate poverty; it is about political will in the countries we are talking about. In addition, I believe that developing countries in the intermediate income group should consider more active redistribution measures, for everyone needs to see their own policies in relation to the country itself. Norway’s efforts must be two-fold: in some countries where we have a long history of cooperation, we can actively engage in direct dialogue with the authorities. Here, we can also use the assistance strategically, targeting concrete actions that will improve distribution. However, it will also be important to contribute to greater international attention in the area of distribution policy. In this way, it will be important to strengthen the UN Organisation and the World Bank’s ability to promote good strategies. Last week I met the World Bank's new leader and said clearly that from Norway's point of view it is to ensure that the World Bank's programmes in poor countries are structured with a clear distribution policy, to have a clear distribution profile, is crucial for our contributions. I believe that the relationship between fair distribution, democracy and growth will be more and more central in the international development debate. The shift in power in the world due to the progress of new major powers has, in my view, led to a too unilateral emphasis on economic growth in the fight against poverty. I want Norway to be a spearhead, not only for sustainable and green growth, but also for a fairer distribution and for democracy in developing countries. It is not only morally and ethically correct; it is, in fact, the best thing to promote both poverty reduction and economic growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2818	Economic growth is increasing with a good policy of distribution. Economic growth is increasing with increased trade, with equality, with the fight against corruption, with respect for the environment, with democracy and with the realization of human rights. That's why the Right is not just talking about economic growth, but everything that contributes to it. There are jobs that give people the opportunity to work out of poverty. We promise no one out of poverty. Workplaces provide an opportunity for people to work themselves out of poverty. I'm standing here with an excerpt from the Evening Post on May 18, 2012. There's a former development minister, Erik Solheim, who says that the right side was right when they talked about economic growth, and that there had to be a socialist to say it. Now I understand that Solheim has lost some of his credibility in SV when he lefles with the Workers' Party, but I hope the Minister for Development is willing to look at it. Because what I see is that the Minister of Development is on his way away from the importance of economic growth. Let me take a little bit of the blame for the fact that the right side has been too busy with economic growth. But the sum must be that good distribution policies on the one hand and economic growth on the other are fundamental to people's being able to work out of poverty. I have two specific questions for the Council of State. How far is the Council of State willing to go in order to force developing countries to change their national policies, such as: tax systems? Will the Council remove Norwegian support for countries that do not wish to make such changes? I hope the Council of State answers. The UN message presented by the government of Stortinget recently reads on page 107: ‘Norway believes that fair distribution and the country’s own responsibility for generation of income must be greater on the UN agenda, both politically and operationally.’ I fully agree with that. It is the countries that have a ownership responsibility for income generation, but – through knowledge, through transparency, and also by imposing transparency on Norwegian companies – we can contribute to it. Let me end with the most important thing: economic growth, industrial development, the creation of jobs, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, openness and anti-corruption – the sum of this enables people to work out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2840	I noticed that Peter Skovholt Gitmark did not quote the researcher Kalle Moene, who is at the University of Oslo and the ESOP centre there, who is just looking at welfare state and development, and at the two things in context. He was the next day out and clearly informed that it was a mistake to believe that economic growth alone would end poverty and create a fair distribution, in other words good societies. On the contrary, he points to the very strength of Norwegian experience, which says that making a good policy of distribution facilitates economic development that is positive and that not only benefits the richest, but benefits everyone. I've never heard the right side of Norway before for fair distribution, either nationally or internationally. My point is that if we are to succeed in a fair distribution policy, both in Norway and in developing countries, we must have it as a goal. If you don't, you won't succeed. Throughout the period 2001–05, differences in Norway increased because there was never a right-hand objective to reduce economic differences. That's why I have no faith that the right-hand side will work internationally to reduce the economic differences between countries. I never heard that Peter Skovholt Gitmark and representatives from the Right were out criticising when the World Bank called for privatisation, for the downsizing and downsizing of public services, such as the World Bank. in the structural adjustment programmes of the 1990s. I have never heard the right side be out protesting against it, which was thus an international pressure to pursue right-wing policies in developing countries. But now Peter Skovholt Gitmark comes up and says, "Why in the world do you want developing countries to pursue a fair distribution policy?" Well, I'll tell him. That's because we think that's what's the successful recipe. Something else will be naive. Let me give you one good reason why that's like that. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark asked how far we want to intervene in a tax system in a developing country. Well, we can make recommendations, we can make impressions. But I want to, for example, say that a country that has a terribly low tax share — perhaps between 10 and 20 pst. ; in Norway we are at 44 pst. of gross domestic product – if you lie down and you have so low tax access, I don’t think it’s unreasonable that when we ask single mothers on the Tøen with tax money to finance development in developing countries, in poor countries, we will make sure that the richest in that country too are contributing and providing for development and poverty reduction in their own country. I believe that this is a reasonable requirement, and I believe that a policy that does not have that requirement is a naive development policy that I believe the Norwegian people should not pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2851	I'm glad that the interpellant has given Stortinget the opportunity to discuss distribution in countries as measures in development policy, but I think I might have a slightly different approach to the issue than what he has. Economic development, shifts in power, climate change, population growth, pressures on natural resources and large migratory flows are changing the world and thus also the framework of development policy. A number of countries in the south now have higher economic growth than we find in many countries on the northern hemisphere. Economic growth in several places has raised large groups of people out of poverty. At the same time, inequality has increased within a number of countries. 70 pst. of the world's poor live in middle-income countries, where the Council of State was concerned. If we are to fight poverty and really mean it, we are not going to have to look at distribution as measures. In the Labour Party, we often talk about creating and sharing in Norway. But creating and sharing is equally important in development policy. Values need to be created, that we contribute to economic growth, but at the same time that growth is distributed – and vice versa: better distribution creates better productivity, because more people are able to participate. Economic growth and distribution are linked to a good welfare society. We've learned that in Norway. And what is the most important thing for both getting growth and getting people out of poverty? It's that people have an income, that's work. Nearly two billion people of working age are out of work, and then especially many women. Many in Norway talk about being a rich country just because of the oil. That's wrong. We have the wealth we have most of all because people are at work, both men and women. I therefore believe that job creation, work, should be at the heart of development policy. Then it's important to build infrastructure. Having investment in the private sector is a driving force, but at the same time we must be vigilant and demand respect for the environment, human rights and professional rights. Of course, the public sector will also be important in a labour market. Norway has several things we can contribute to, for example: investment, but not least, we can contribute with skills and experience in the organisation of working life, such as the experience we have in social co-operation, which many countries are actually interested in learning more about. In order for people to be at work, and to be productive, one must have met basic needs, such as the right to food, health and education. We must also contribute to this. Many call this traditional assistance. I believe that this is a prerequisite for achieving other development policy objectives. In my view, fair distribution is much about having good tax systems in a functioning state. I am therefore very much in favour of the Tax for Development programme. Many countries have large natural resources to manage. The Oil for Development programme, where Norway assists a number of countries, is for example: Very well, but it's not given that the income that comes to a state from these resources benefits the people. It's about distribution, it's about giving common resources to everyone. Democratic rights, active citizens and strong organisations are important pillars of sustainable democracies and development. This is also important to ensure that the goods are distributed. It should therefore be essential to contribute to strengthening the development and role of civil society, professional mobility and free media. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark asks questions about what he calls for, or intervenes, with distribution measures. If we're going to fight poverty, we're not going to get away from the question of distribution. I don't think it's intervention to give support to civil society and trade union movement. I don't think it's intervention to give advice on tax systems, the management of natural resources and the benefit of providing people with health and education. So I am a little surprised that working for fair distribution is perceived as intervening. There are parties here on the Stortinget that believe that tough conditions should be imposed on the country before we provide assistance, for example. requirements for liberalisation and for opening up more free trade. It's kind of okay – but not to expect or work for countries we provide assistance to actually distribute the benefits to the whole people. For me, development is about all people being lifted. Through many measures, such as distribution, we can contribute. I have to say that I think the Minister for Development has made an excellent account of the distribution policy as an instrument today, and I look forward to an exciting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2872	When we hear the Council of State Eidsvoll Holmås here today, one should almost think that he has found the solution to how to combat the world's poverty, and especially in the poorest countries. There is a very strong contrast to SV’s 2005 election promise, when they promised to remove poverty in Norway with a pen stroke. But even they haven't made it. So any country that has tried socialism as an instrument to combat poverty has failed. There is a contradiction in government's policy towards the world's poor country. On the one hand, the government will bear what it calls the Norwegian model at the head of the developing world. This involves the introduction of high taxes and levies and a kind of distribution policy according to a kind of Robin Hood principle, where the cake is to be shared and everyone is to have an equal share. On the other hand, the government appears to have little interest in how democracy and human rights exist in the same countries. One striking example of this is Ethiopia. Both the development minister Eidsvoll Holmås and his predecessors have pushed the country's prime minister, Hailemariam Desalegn, and his predecessor, Meles Zenawi, to his breast – despite the fact that Ethiopia today appears to be one of Africa's most harsh dictatorships. The rest of the world has much to learn from the Western countries, preferably the countries cooperating in the OECD. But it is not cake-sharing that has made these countries so prosperous. They are built through centuries of successful business start-ups, hard work, capitalism, market economy and free trade – all of them. Some people have accumulated a small wealth and invested it in some productive activity, employed people, and contributed to the development of economics and wealth that benefits everyone. Researchers Øyvind The Egg at NUPI recently wrote in a blog that all cakes should be distributed as best as possible, but that it is only when the cake is of a certain size that distribution will contribute significantly to the poor. Furthermore, he writes: ‘Growth alleviates poverty. It almost always drips a little on the poor as the economy grows, both through jobs, taxes, demand for local goods and a pile of informal mechanisms.’ [[but never enough]] He goes on about Africa: I would think it's going to happen that ‘perhaps provocative that one of the world’s richest states should ‘make’ the leaders of some of the poorest countries aware that the solution lies in distribution rather than growth. It smells like guardianship based on an embarrassingly poor understanding of how weak the economy is in many of these countries.’ So this is clear speech from the NUPI. A study conducted at the Helmut Schmidt University in Hamburg, led by Professor Dierk Herzer, concludes unreservedly that aid leads to an increase in inequality. The Danish researcher Christian Bjørnskov concludes in a study from 2010. The most important thing is therefore economic growth. Including the world's poor countries in international economic cooperation is the right way out of poverty. It gives the best social profile, and it raises the whole community at the same time. Economic growth provides the basis for developing countries to take responsibility for themselves. It provides resource allocation for the development of roads, ports, dwellings, energy production and distribution. It enables water and sewerage treatment and distribution networks, making it easier to develop education and health services. Not least, economic growth facilitates the development of democracy and respect for human rights and the fight against corruption. There are many examples of this. The Norwegian u-help for 2013 amounts to more than 30 billion. kr. It's a colossal resource. Used correctly, it can produce formidable results, but it remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2906	I would also like to thank the representative of Skovholt Gitmark for giving us the opportunity to do what is, in many ways, a continuation of the debate we had a few weeks ago – the budget debate. An ongoing political debate on development policy is important. I believe that the government will make a good contribution to this with its communication on the distribution of development policy, which it has announced will come to spring. There is no doubt that there are also political contradictions in development policy. It is also good, as the Council of State was also concerned, for the work on the Great Britain Communication that we have a debate in advance here in Stortinget. The interpellant asks a question in his interpellation, which means that I have to admit that I do not share the input of the representative Skovholt Gitmark to the debate. I would like to ask back: is it so that the interpellant believes that there is a contrast between facilitating economic growth and promoting economic distribution? One would almost believe it in the way the question was formulated – but there were a little other signals in the post. I am absolutely convinced that smaller differences provide a more robust and sustainable growth. So it's good that the Right suggests that they agree, but, like the Council of State, I haven't seen strong signs of that before. We are also familiar with this from Norway. Norway, in spite of a high level of taxation, is a very good country to operate in. The prescription Right here prescribes at home, with large tax cuts and the reduction of institutions that ensure distribution, will not strengthen Norwegian business, and it will definitely not make the differences smaller. There is little reason to believe that it should be different in other countries. Combating poverty internationally requires precise action. It requires different measures in different countries, different approaches, different policies, but common to all is that it requires redistribution, which in turn requires trust between people and trust in institutions — which in turn require combating corruption, tax evasion, etc. It is not so easy for political freedoms alone or economic growth alone – to which the representative of the Progress Party was involved – to combat poverty. There is no doubt that societies that cope with these things will be better able to combat poverty and create growth and new prosperity. Then Skovholt Gitmark is quite right in saying that equality, anti-corruption and precisely distribution are prerequisites for good economic growth. It's new and good tones from the Right. But that is why I am surprised that Skovholt Gitmark said so clearly in his speech that poverty reduction in middle-income countries is not to be seen as a development policy, but as a national distribution policy issue. Most people must have realised that the absence of a policy dimension and the unilateral emphasis on structural adjustment programmes, liberalisation and privatisation – for which the World Bank and the IMF, for example, stood in the 1990s, with miserable results for both low-income and middle-income countries – was clearly part of the development policy that many countries led for a period of time. It is no more political to focus on distribution, taxation, equality and a well-functioning public sector than to focus on economic growth alone. There are only different political views on the basis. It is no more political also to focus on economic and social human rights than just to see parts of images. Finally, Peter N. Myhre swung to the rhetorical heights of his post and, among other things, grew. There's a visitor. To that it is probably just to say that Norway stands out in quite a number of ways, and the red-greens have helped to make Norway stand out in another way. It's that we're one of the few countries in the Western world that's had a decline in differences in the last seven years. This probably also knows the Progress Party, because we've said it quite many times. They later just look like they don't hear. While differences have decreased in Norway, they have increased in much of the rest of the world. The way in which differences have been reduced in Norway is through the use of policy instruments – which, according to the Progress Party, should have led to industrial disaster here in Norway. It didn't work that way. Norway is, after all, a better country to do business today than it was seven years ago — another example that distribution and growth can go hand in hand. But then it's the right hand side, and maybe especially the Progress Party, that has to take off its ideological glasses, and not we red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2921	I think it is an interesting issue that the representative Skovholt Gitmark raises in his interview. I also think the representative of Skovholt Gitmark had a balanced approach to growth and distribution. For the Christian People's Party, there has never been any contradiction, nor will it be. It has also been interesting to listen to the development minister Eidsvoll Holmås, not least because we have occasionally had the pleasure of listening to his predecessors on these themes. It is quite fascinating to see a clear change of course from the former Council of State to the present. I'm not going to spend too much time on it, but I want to remind the assembly what Solheim said to their leaders in the U.D. He appeared in 2008 to Dagbladet's review of the book The Bottom Billion by Paul Collier. At his meeting he announced: «I love economic growth! There is too little economic growth in poor countries. We need more of that. It is the key to solving the problems in many poor countries.’ The book inspired by the then Minister of Development was referred to in the morning paper’s report as having a writer who believes almost Reagan’s belief that global economic growth will grow to the detriment of the poor and automatically solve the problems of the many poor who live in middle-income countries. It's an expression of this so-called "triccle down" theory, which the current Council of State, by reference to Stiglitz, warned against. I think there's reason to warn against such simplification as it implies. So I guess I have to say that in many ways I think the current Council of State is on a more correct track. What we think about this topic is quite well known. We have led a consistent policy in this area from the government participations we have had to our opposition settings. We need a more consistent policy in this area, a policy that more closely reflects the balanced policy that, in fact, a broad majority in this Chamber has put themselves behind. In fact, it has to be seen that the development and distribution in context and that it is important that growth benefits the wider population – I realized that the Council of State was unambiguous, like the inter-pellant – and not just leads to a sustained accumulation of wealth in a small upper class, which we know that many poor countries have far too much, too long experience with. That is why, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important to strengthen the broad approach to the poor population laws and to ensure their prerequisites in order to improve their situation. What should we do? Education, of course, is a major element, and health, which gives workability and improves the quality of life, as well. These are important areas of action, plus some other elements. Here I don't think it's about us sitting in Norway telling what other countries should do and not do. But we refer to some experience that helped this country in its time to lift the large and wide population, for example. a good tax system, how we manage our natural resources and how we have a social safety network. There are also core elements to raise many in the poor part of the world when it is possible to do so. Otherwise, I will also challenge the government, as an overall opposition has done in this budget at the latest, to use the oil fund more actively, to invest in poor countries. An overall opposition proposes to set aside a 10 billion fund. kr, initially for investments. In this way, Norway can also contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2937	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising a topical and important question. I want to start a little at that end when using Norway as an example of the wealth and distribution policies that exist in Norway. If you go back a little in history — to about 1800 — Norway was a poor country, the vast majority of them living on the poverty line. Why? You had a little elite who had made rules, which meant that ordinary people couldn't trade. Ordinary people were excluded from the economic growth that was in the country. You had a little elite sitting on top and earning a search warrant. What did you do in the 1800s? Yes, these rules have been removed. They were removed step by step and nutrition was introduced. It was said that everyone would be allowed to trade. You didn't need a citizen's letter and you lived in a place of purchase. The contractors were redeemed. The principle of nutrition was established. What happened during the 1800s? Indeed, economic growth gradually increased. With the industrialisation, the entrepreneurs came on the track and started new businesses and factories. What happened? Prosperity spread to the broad community of the people, both in the cities and in the countryside. In this way, the broad population was removed from poverty. If someone at that time had come to say that a Norwegian model is to be introduced, where you have to have a large public sector, where you have to have a high tax level and all those things, you would probably choke the positive economic growth that was the foundation for this. Then we agree that we must have a policy of distribution. The Progress Party has every year criticised aid that goes to countries where a dictator lives in sus and sobs, while the population otherwise lives on the poverty line. There is nothing new that has come now. We've been saying that all along. We have also said that economic development must be at the bottom. There must be one pie to divide. It must be large enough to lift the entire population. The problem today is that many of the poorest countries have so little gross domestic product, such a small production of income relative to the population, that if they had all been distributed, they would still have had great poverty in the country. In order to overcome poverty in the poorest countries, you need to get the economic engines up and go. You have to get productivity up, so you have a bigger pie to distribute to others. It is then important to see the importance of entrepreneurs creating the new jobs. Eva Kristin Hansen was in the workplace – I fully agree with her. Workplaces – giving people an independent income – are probably the best way to get people out of poverty. But if you're going to do that, you also have to have those who create jobs and make room for entrepreneurs, give room for ordinary people to start their small businesses, start their businesses, so that they can build productivity and have a tax base that can contribute to distribution. If you don't start at the right end, I'm afraid you're choking the economic growth that you're really looking to build up. I think that if you want to introduce the Norwegian model in many of these countries, you can achieve two things. One thing that can be achieved is that these countries get a public sector that is too large in relation to what they have the capacity to bear. What happens then? Either they become even more dependent on assistance from the rich part of the world to get the budget to go around, or they end up in a debt problem, which makes you become addicted. What we want is for these countries to have an economic development that will enable them to maintain their dignity, independence and independence and build their own engine. The system to be used for distribution is one that needs to be developed in each country. You can't come from the outside and say that things have to be distributed like this. There must be internal mechanisms developed in each country that ensure a good distribution profile in each country. I think it is also necessary to build the political institutions and build the legal security system to ensure good development. Thinking that the Norwegian model, with a large public sector and a high tax rate — at worst a socialist social model — is the solution for the poor countries, I think is a siding. I think that can lead many of these countries into a worse situation. What these countries need least is an experiment with Norwegian socialist neo-imperialistism to be launched in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2956	I also thank you for the debate, because it is important. But I want to say that I think it is bordering on inconsistency when parties that tickle with the very poorest families in Norway, and that even cutters of aid to poor countries, rise to the great heights here, and believe that making rich people richer will contribute to development or reduce poverty. The story of trickle-down is an adventure – it's not true. It's not working. No one has said to press a Norwegian model in another country. What has been said is that distribution works. Distribution is development. It has been in Norway, and it has not come about just as a result of the removal of trade privileges. It has been fought by a political movement, by non-governmental organisations and not least by a strong trade union movement – that people have organized themselves. It has civilized Norway, and it has distributed money and power. It's been very important, it's been absolutely crucial for the development we've been through. People are the most important resource a country can have. If you don't take care of people's health, if you don't let people train, if people don't have food in their bodies, then it's clear that it's not possible to achieve an economic growth that's sustainable. This is important. Therefore, Norway has joined and is one of the drivers of what is called the ‘Decent Work’ agenda. It is based on the eight core conventions of the ILO. It is important, in order to strengthen the rights of workers in both labour standards and living wages, is the real fight against poverty. In addition, there is super economic development, because it gives you a more educated workforce, and you get a staff that is actually able to take care of itself, your own health and your family. The economy you get when you get a little better pay and a little bit more to live on, the further you contribute to the economic development of your societies. It is true that if you are committed to democracy, you must be concerned with combating poverty, because it is not possible to imagine that people living in poverty cannot participate in democracy in the same way as others can. We know that, especially because the economically strong interests have large organisations – transnational – and they can pay people to work with influence. It is extremely important that people have something to live with, so that they can participate in democracy – seagoing and without feeling threatened. For those who are concerned with human rights: dividing policies ensure that human rights are actually fulfilled, because human rights are not virtual, they are about physical things to be fulfilled in everyday life to people. If you are committed to combating corruption, poverty reduction is very important. Part of the reason why corruption can continue is that a large proportion of the population are poor and in total amputation. Discouragement is a major problem related to poverty. Had it been like this in the world that poor people had equal access to the media, to participate in political work, or had equal opportunity to influence people with money, this problem would actually have been a little less – but it isn't. This with the distribution of money is also very closely related to the distribution of power in the world. This is incredibly important. I am very pleased that the Norwegian government is so strongly on the “Decent Work” agenda, and I say that we should do that job through the ILO, which is the international tripartite cooperation where minimum standards are laid down that are essential for the development of which we are all concerned. We shall do so through foreign policy, through aid policy, through trade policy, through ownership policy, and of course through labour policy, both here in the country and in the international forums in which we participate. It is very important that this is implemented. It is not about having an imperialist relationship with the Norwegian model. It is a matter of understanding that if you want to develop, you need to ensure better distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2973	There is no contradiction between economic growth and fair distribution, but growth must be sustainable. The objectives of the Higher Development Policy are democracy, the realization of human rights and permanent out of poverty. All those goals are connected. When we see that 70 pst. of the world’s poor in middle-income countries, is the answer to trade, industrial development, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, equal rights to education, enhanced civil society and a national distribution policy — just to mention some of the solutions. Karin Andersen is absolutely right when she says that poverty pushes people away from democracy, and corruption hits the poorest. This is at the heart of the Higher Development Policy. I am disappointed that during the debate the Council of State has not been willing to answer my specific question. The question is – and I hope the Council of State will now answer: Will the Council of State Eidsvoll Holmås try to force changes in the tax system in a country receiving Norwegian development aid? A lot of the debate has shown that there is a great deal of consensus. Especially the tight band that's between the Christian People's Party and the Right shows it very clearly. To the representative Serigstad Valen I would say: no, smaller differences and good distribution actually increase growth. That's a good one. But tax is a national matter. How to set up the tax system is a national issue. But we can contribute Norwegian competence; we can use Norwegian development policy to show the positive aspects by changing the tax system to get more into the tax system and get the tax rate up. I fully agree that it is fundamentally positive. We're not going to sit indifferent and look at it, I agree with that. To the representative Eva Kristin Hansen I would say: No, it is not to intervene to support civil society. It is not to intervene in the internal affairs of a country to support trade-union movements or to provide advice on the tax system. On the contrary, it is against good development policy. But it is to intervene if you want to force changes in the tax system — and that is what we have so far not received answers to. I want to end the debate by saying that I don't think it's a suck in the world – as in Norway – after more SV policy, but it's a craving for increased economic growth and better distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e2994	I think it has been a good debate. I will answer the questions from Peter Skovholt Gitmark – do not start a new discussion. Since I'm the one with the last post, I'm going to be careful with polishing. But let me start by saying that I think it's problematic, from my intrusive angle, that the right seems to be too little concerned about how economic growth is distributed. Because if you say growth first, and then we take the other thing in politics afterwards, you end up very quickly in a situation where you just get money, power and a division of power. It undermines, in my opinion, both democracy and the possibility of participation. I think that one of the important experiences we have from the time we went from being lenient to becoming one of the richest countries in the world -- over the last 100 years -- like Torkil Åmland was in, was just that we were concerned that the way we distributed the value creation in production was going to be fairer. Just working for trade and peasant organisations, which ensured that the incomes of agricultural production and incomes were distributed along the whole value chain from the very beginning, was at the heart of the discussion. Had one said that now we're kind of letting the money go up, and then we're finally going to take property taxes, we know exactly how it went. Then the right-hand side would have said that property taxes are against us, because that's stupid, and then you don't get a distribution policy. It is precisely the policy that leads to the distribution throughout this chain, which is central. To avoid polishing – let me answer the question about Holmås will force changes in the tax systems of other countries. I'm going to answer a little bit more. As for the idea of coercion, what a country can do by forcing is very limited. But we can set conditions for assistance, and I think we should. I think that's absolutely right. Take the following example: with Development Oil. We're involved in a lot of countries that have oil. If, through our Oil for Development Programme, we contribute to increasing tax revenue, the input of income into a country, for example. through increased productivity, and we see that the money is distributed only to a few – they do not benefit the whole country – is it a country in which we should prioritise oil for development work? As far as development tax is concerned, it is exactly the same. If, through our programmes, we contribute to increasing the tax revenue of a country, while they choose to raise the money in a few hands, are we going to spend Norwegian aid money on that country? And finally, if we spend money on education, while we see that the country itself refuses to increase its tax revenues to help just mobilise national resources to take over the responsibility for this education, is it right that we should do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3007	Those questions may be answered in another interpellation debate. So the debate is on case No. 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3026	On 5 December, the Network Organisation Skeiv World held a conference here on the Stortinget, where the challenges of people with LHBT background and the background of ethnic or religious minority in Norway were discussed. At this seminar, the book «Linked to life?» — an experience report on lesbians, gays, biphiles and trans-persons with a minority background — was presented. In this book, some of those who have experienced the reality of their body, their stories. The names are, of course, anonymous. ‘Cristian’ means the escape from an Arab country in order to live safely as a homophile. Ironically, it was in Trondheim his life was seriously threatened for the first time. He survived, but life was no longer the same. Now he looks over his shoulder every time he's out. The man who did it to him has done the probe and walks freely in the streets. That's not how Kristian had imagined life in a new country. He thinks back and remembers that he felt good until he graduated from college when he was 23. Then he had challenged the tolerance of homophilia there so much that he would no longer be. In addition, near the time of marriage, his family seemed. As long as he was studying, he could be guilty of studying, but later it was expected that he would marry. In his homeland, it's common for the police to pretend to be gay to reveal people, and that's exactly what happened to him. He was beaten up by the police and threatened with a gun to admit that he was gay. After that episode he fled to Norway and was here under an attack that was even worse, by people of ethnicity other than the majority. After this, the situation became worse for him at the reception, where men like Kristian risk being subjected to gross violence and rape. The man who attacked him, as said, out there, and Kristian fears that acquaintances of him, with the same ethnic background, will complete the attack on him if they see him in the street. So Kristian is not safe anywhere, either in his home country or here. It's a destiny he shares with more, for example. Somali ‘Kent’, who now lives a demanding double life in order not to lose the family. The scars on his back tell about the last time they suspected that he had a different lay than they wanted him to have. Or Asian «Karl», who is here on a student visa, who lives completely isolated and is going home to be coerced next autumn. Or Muslim ‘Karen’, who lost her family in Norway because they believe she has ruined the honor of the family by being happy with another woman. Or "Kurt", who is regularly admitted to the psychiatric ward because he fears that the family will kill him when he's going out of the closed reception he's at. ‘China’ has previously been compulsorily poisoned with its fats. She got the choice between it or being killed. She endured two years with her husband and was abused before she finally got in touch with the organisation Skeiv World. Or Kaltham, as I know from the Skeiv World Government, who played mad to get away from his family after his parents made sure that he was baptized with a lot of drugs to make him so-called healthy with a doctor, who otherwise operates with electroshocks to heal people because of their unfortunate love life. Living in what can be called a collective cultural background contributes to some everyday problems that few of us can imagine in Norway in 2012. Here we have laws that equate LHBT people with heterophiles and that protect them especially against discrimination and harassment. But many with minority backgrounds do not experience participation in the progress that others of us are taking part in. Then there is a demand for visibility and transparency, which is not easy to deal with for many of them, and much of the media debate is not about their lives at all. The small amount of research on living conditions and quality of life among homosexuals is NOVA reports, which do not investigate the extent or consequences of forced marriage for LHBT persons with a minority background. And as we all know, in collective cultures, marriage is more than a relationship between two people who want to share life with each other. It's just as much a religious matter as a family affair. While it may take several years for a person with a majority background in Norway to get out of the closet, it has become more and more common to get out early. The same does not apply to homosexuals with a migrant background and with a collective cultural background. This is difficult to understand, not least for example: the protection of children, who have a responsibility in several of these cases. And not least, it's demanding that those who have LHBT background tell them that the auxiliaries don't ask them about conditions related to laying, because many in the auxiliaries either don't dry or don't want to. I'm, as I said, a member of the board of Skeiv World, and this is the third time I'm now trying to raise this issue in Stortinget – not because it's the only thing I'm concerned about, but because it's an important topic that's rarely discussed. The world's record does a great job, but it can't be that an organisation with one full-time secretary-general and some volunteers in reality should be almost the only offer available. The experience we're doing in the Skeiv World is that the rest of the auxiliaries don't always take the responsibility they have, because they don't dare or can't go into the unculture that makes young people in e.g. Oslo lives a terrible life in the crossfire between lay, sex, family, honor and a position in which human rights are subordinated to the façade building of the family and the ethnic façade building. The lack of knowledge and – I would also say – ‘goods’ in parts of the public utility, the municipal and the state, means that these do not get help beyond the network service that a small organisation Skeiv World can give them. I would venture the claim that Norway and the big community are failing these for their own convenience and let them take the whole noise for themselves. It is great that money has been allocated to such an important measure as Skeiv World, but this mini-organisation does not have the task of doing everyone else's job. All those working in the field of immigration need to be more clearly required to do so, and the results of the work they do also need to be sought. As Hillary Clinton said, LHBT rights are human rights, and human rights are LHBT rights. To get there, we, as Abid Raja has said, have to take a sword and cover off the culture you see in a number of immigrant environments. We cannot accept the daily rape it is that women or men are forced into marriage and have children with someone they do not want to have children with. In fact, the most activist and tough are often those who come here alone as asylum seekers. Unlike second- and third-generation immigrants, they lack the family and friends they can bring on so-called shame. At the same time, being open to them can also be dangerous and pose a risk of violence, threats and coercion when it becomes visible, perhaps in a digital forum or via the media. But without people standing up, it is difficult for Norwegian authorities to prevent coercive measures. The fight against coercion must be waged on a broad front and must unite all political Norway. The LHBT population is in the public debate and in the work of the authorities a group that is still largely excluded – that is why for the third time I am trying to raise this issue, or parts of it – and which needs more support and help. The LHBT perspective needs to be included to a greater extent than today in public work and public debate. All forms of coercion are unacceptable, no matter what sexual orientation or gender the victim has, but the ones I'm talking about are people who almost never get remembered in the public debate. Public case handlers and people working in public Norway choose either not to see or not to learn or to acknowledge that this is a major problem for those involved, although perhaps the number is not as high as the number of those most concerned. My question is whether the Council of State can explain the work and vision of the authorities in the future on how to combat violence, threats and forcible acts in relation to this small group. As I said, forced marriage is serious, no matter who it hits, but this group stands as well as alone, it would not have been because there is one organization working for them. It's a situation that I don't believe the Council of State or anyone in this room seems desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3052	Let me start by thanking the interpellant, the representative André Oktay Dahl, who has been committed to this topic for a long time. That's good. I know that travelling interpellations on topics that you're concerned with contributes to raising awareness. It makes us aware in the departments, it makes us aware of the Greatness and it makes people aware of the community. All of this is necessary in order for us to do something about the situation that is described in detail by the interpellant sea ice. The experience with taboos and shameful issues is that they need to be highlighted, they need to be debated, they need to be raised so that they become visible, because it is only when they become visible that we can put an end to shame and put an end to taboo issues. I would like to make that clear for the first time. Then the representative André Oktay Dahl asks for an explanation of our work against coercion. I also read it as a general statement, and then the representative adds – also from an LHBT perspective. Now it is the last thing that was first and foremost raised in the introduction to the post of the representative Dahl, and I think that is good. I'll put a lot of emphasis on it, but I'll also say a little in general. Interpellant claims that the LHBT population is a group that is largely excluded in practice but needs more support and help. That's right. Zero tolerance against coercion and zero tolerance against discrimination against LHBT persons is a matter of course for our government. It's a matter of course for most parties too – I think everyone – and that's good. It's a matter of course that young people are going to have influence over their own lives, and we're increasingly acknowledging, I think, that the work against coercion must start quite early in the young people's lives, because there's a lot in the form of restrictions on the freedom of young people already around puberty, and sometimes before that as well. It is obvious to us that young people will decide with whom they will be girlfriends, explore their sexuality with them, and with whom they may want to marry — if they do not want to get married. We all know that the grey zones, when it comes to the question of coercion, are often large. It's not easy to set a concrete limit on when it's voluntary, and when it's coercive. But what is absolutely certain is that young people need support for their choices from adults who are close to them. But there aren't always parents or big families that give this support. That's why it's important that we from the political side and from the authority of society are clear that the freedom to love whom you want and make your own choices for your life and your identity is absolutely central. It's human rights. Skating governments have been targeting forcibly since the late 1990s. In the early years, forced marriage was seen as a girl’s problem, but experience from first-line services and research has shown that the picture is more complicated and nuanced. Think about it, it's also about men or boys, and it's about LHBT people, natural enough. The first action plan on coercion came in 1998. Most of the things that were known for the auxiliaries were about young women at the time. There were few or no established assistance services for boys and men. I remember how difficult it was at all to get hold of someone who could do something about coercion when I first met a girl – quite rightly – who was exposed to this, in the mid-1990s. It was almost impossible. Fortunately, today that situation is very different. Young homosexuals are now referred to for the first time as a target group for the fight against coercion in the Action Plan, which came 10 years after – Action Plan against Forced Marriage for 2008–2011. Feedback from various help agencies had then shown that even young homosexuals from minority communities were exposed to forced marriages and threats of coercion. It was clarified that adapted housing services were to be established for boys and young couples as well. LHBT individuals are now highlighted as a particularly vulnerable group in the Action Plan against Forced Marriage and Gender Harmping – 2012. The plan states that we should continue to pay attention to LHBT people and their challenges in 2012 and beyond. The IMDI, the IMDI, is responsible for following up several actions in the action plan. IMDi’s efforts are mainly prevention and awareness-raising. Minority advisors at schools and integration advisors at foreign stations are very important resources in this work. That's a very big change, I'll say, from before. I'm very proud that we've done this exercise, that we've deployed minority counsellors in schools, even in high school, just for the reasons I mentioned; we have to get in early and identify vulnerable people before it's gone so far that you really don't have a choice, or have been very damaged. So we know that these come in direct contact with individuals who are exposed to or threatened with forced marriage, including LHBT people. One of the minority advisors is also the course in what is called the ICDP, the International Child Development Program, which is also a group discussion, for example. with fathers or mothers, where you can address this type of problem, if you dry. It's a question we have to consider, we have to look at how this is done, and how we can possibly support them in addressing this problem to a greater extent than today. In IMDi’s prevention and awareness-raising work, high attention is given to LHBT individuals as a vulnerable group with the risk of being subjected to forced marriages. They have developed a guide for teachers called the Right to make their own choices. It also addresses the situation of LHBT people. The IMDi report of 2011 ‘Not Just Forced Marriage’ also addresses the situation of homosexuals with a migrant background. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate recently launched ‘Responsible Marriage and Honorary Violence — A Guide to the Child Welfare Service’. It contains both knowledge and practices for dealing with issues relating to coerciveness and honor-related violence. Two fictitious things are followed through the supervisor. One of these is Hassan, 16-year-old, who has a boyfriend, who is subjected to violence and threats at home. I'm glad to see that the LHBT perspective is being taken care of in a good and thorough way in this guide. Then, of course, we also have to make sure that the supervisor is used. There's nothing we can do, but there's something we can stimulate, ask and make sure. The government will present a new four-year action plan for the period 2013–2016. We are now continuing and developing efforts to combat coerciveness and sexual mutilation to include serious restrictions on the freedom of young people. In the big news of a comprehensive integration policy that we presented in October, we state that we will strengthen the position of LHBT people with a migrant background. Among other things, we need to: allocate NOK 200000 to OMOD, who will work on the issues. A lot of important work has been done directly to LHBT people. The Government’s Action Plan ‘Better quality of life for lesbian, gay, biphilic and transhumance’ for 2009–2012 is planned to continue in 2013. The plan contains a number of measures relevant to LHBT persons in general and two measures relating to LHBT youth and forced marriage. The action plan assumes that LHBT youth with a migrant background may be subject to forced marriage. The themes of forced marriage and sexuality shall be included in supervisors and be used as the basis for the activities of relevant organisations and for the provision of skills for those working in forced marriage. The children’s, youth and family directorate, responsible for the further development of information materials and guides and the implementation of annual network collections, has focused on the specific needs of LHBT individuals. They also have the LHBT center with them, so it's natural that you swap each other's knowledge here. The Institute for Social Research, ISF, has assessed whether the Action Plan against Forced Marriage meets the needs of LHBT individuals. The ISF concludes that there is limited knowledge in this area. Furthermore, as a theme, LHBT was not well known in the auxiliaries, which had met a few LHBT people – at least they believe it – in their work. I just want to add that it happens that you get to know things only when you ask directly, especially in as taboo and shameful areas as this. The ISF recommended that the LHBT perspective be both more visible and better integrated into the work against coercion. That's a recommendation that we'll follow up on. At the end of June 2012, the Ministry of Justice issued an updated instruction to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs on the handling of asylum cases relating to LHBT entries. At the same time, the Ministry updated the guidelines for dealing with asylum applications related to gender-related persecution in general. Forced marriage is mentioned here. Forced marriages may constitute persecution and grounds for asylum if the other conditions are met, including that the persons concerned cannot receive protection in their home Member State. This applies to both LHBT and others. We are also working on a new law on the prohibition of discrimination because of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, and generally have a very large focus on this area because it is important to us. Both for the Swedish Government and for the Swedish Government, it is absolutely essential that we work systematically with inclusion in all areas, in combating discrimination, harassment, racism, exclusion and direct persecution of people just because they are who they are, and love what they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3092	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer. I know that the Council of State is committed to this, and believes and feels it. It is good for politicians who have a real commitment and who have kept their entire political career. I wanted to start with that. What the Council of State really wants is a real effort. That's also why I have addressed this in the way I have done today – because this is about combating the attitudes and the unculture that underlie some of the examples that I took up. The challenge is to get people and helpers to realize that while most Nordics, when they are children, gradually get more freedom and responsibility, they get us talking about here, less and less freedom the older they get – especially the girls. It's like you can't really figure out how much of a part of the girls are being monitored at absolutely all levels. It's almost a clean Stasi device out there, and it follows every single thing that the girls do. If they're in Oslo City or wherever it may be, call their home to tell them what they've done, whether it's right, and whether it's right with the family honor. Then there's a question of how we manage to provide knowledge in all parts of the auxiliaries, because a lot of people get scared when they hear that this has to do with culture and religion. You don't go into the debate about what that culture or that religion is really for. One simply needs to know in depth what they are called – I call it – the cultures are, and what the so-called religious commandments are. It's actually that in Islam it's not very clear that homophilis is a sin. It's almost clearer in Christianity. But it assumes that one has a religious understanding and a cultural understanding that is much better than it is today in many people, so that they have the opportunity to ‘face’ and ask the critical questions to, for example, parents and relatives. The situation is a municipal responsibility. In Oslo schools there are at least a lot of signs that it's not all the principals and teachers who actually take that responsibility and do their job in protecting the young people they're set to protect. I'm standing here with a counsellor who's designed for child-restraint services. I'm very excited to see how child protection enforces, because it requires a very high degree of cultural understanding and competence to implement what's in this guide. With regard to the attitudes of asylum recipients, I think you can take a round with some of the asylum recipients' leaders, who have actually signaled that young homosexuals who are there must behave – that is. that they must hide that there are homosexuals on asylum recipients. It is a declaration of failure, and also an example of a lack of will and knowledge in a public establishment, which I hope the Council of State may come... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3107	Let me start by thanking you for the very warm and pleasant words of the representative Oktay Dahl. So I'm sending that rose back, because it's an engagement that the representative Oktay Dahl has also brought with him over many years. I know. That's good, because commitment can get the world out. We know that. Then I want to give praise to the organisation Skeiv World, who has done a great job. It's a small organization, but they've done a lot, and with quite a lot of risk to their seas and to theirs. It costs to be a pioneer. It always does. For some people it costs more than for others, and knowing and appreciating it is important. Volunteers are doing a very important job in this area, they're showing the way. The stories of individuals are part of what really helps to open up hearts, ears and eyes to politicians and governments. Sense if it costs, they need to know that it means something -- they make a difference. It's also good to be able to use the experiences you have that are so bad, to something positive, so that others don't have to experience the same thing as a sail. It's a value in itself. So I would also say that I, as the Council of State, also for the protection of children, where we experience a lot of uncertainty about this with culture and cultural differences, am concerned about saying that we should become more concerned with what unites than with what separates. What should unite is the human rights – to call them and not be so anxious to explain, explain and find all sorts of solutions than those you would otherwise have chosen, to ask yourself the simple question: what would be good enough for my child, or a so-called ethnic Norwegian child, and then go after the line and follow what you would otherwise have done, and not start looking for all sorts of other ways to do it. Cultural sensitivity is important, but cultural relativism on human rights issues and not least on children's rights is totally unacceptable, and we have to end up thinking that way. But then there is also a need for safe employees who are in pretty tough situations, to assist them and really stand there and to support them in making demanding choices and jobs for vulnerable groups. Some of the experiences of the immigrant population who are gay or LHBT people today are, after all, much of the same thing that many heroines have experienced and that they also experience to a different degree in parts of our society today. So we have to work on a wide front and in many areas, and we don't have to be good at this either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3120	I will begin by quoting the leader of the Skeiv World, Ingse-Katrine Gravdal. She says it like this in an interview with the magazine Blick: ‘Many parents consider forcible marriage to be the best means of curing homophilis. They're not bad people. [[...]] All parents will do the best for their children and they have faith that this is the best." In the book The Link for Life?, to which the interpellant refers, some of the Slide World's members tell their stories. There are strong stories about young people who struggle between love, family and culture, who are abused physically and mentally because their parents know or suspect that their children are gay. I would like to thank the representative André Oktay Dahl for addressing this issue, and thanking Skeiv Verden, where Dahl is also a member of the board, for the enormously important work the organisation is doing. I also join the inter-pellant's praise to the Council of State. No one can be in doubt about her sincere commitment in this area. What's this about? Forced marriage is an unacceptable offense regardless of who is affected. The Council of State was concerned that the boundary between forced marriage and arranged marriage could be unclear. For lesbians, gays, biphiles and transpersonals, the difference between forced marriages and arranged marriages is even less apparent than for others. There is a difference between conversations with parents about whom to marry, and conversations about not getting married at all. In many cultures, it is not accepted that children want to remain single. Also, an arranged marriage with the best intentions will put them in the right place, in a forced situation: either marry or break up with the family. The last one is often unmistakable. It's not hard to imagine how offensive and dramatic it is to have to share your life with someone you haven't chosen at all and who has the wrong sex. Earlier this year, the government presented new action plans on forced marriage and gender mutilation. Seven departments are responsible for various measures such as individual assistance, health services, increased legal protection, empowerment in ancillary services, information and awareness-raising. It's all important, but it's possible we have something to learn from the United Kingdom. In 2005, their Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Internal Affairs jointly established a Forced Marriage Unit to assist persons forced to marry. The number of requests from lesbians and gays who are compulsorily married has doubled in a short time. The unit receives hundreds of such enquiries every year. There can be no doubt that the problem is real also in Norway. It is quite right, as the representative Dahl says, that LHBT people are invisible to those who are going to take action. Of course, LHBT individuals are also included in the action plan against coerciveness, but there is a need to recognise and see this group in particular. The government recently presented a comprehensive integration message to be addressed by the Stortinge over the New Year. LHBT people are mentioned in particular. It's important. This year it is ten years since Swedish-Kurdish Fadime was killed by his father in Uppsala. The so-called honor of the genus was crooked. Fadime had a girlfriend, she refused to marry her cousin. She, who was family property, was disobedient, and they did not control her sexuality. It is completely impossible to understand – and we should not understand – the notions of honor that make parents kill their children. Such a view of humanity has no place in our society. There are related beliefs about honor that get parents to force LHBT people into marriage, that drive children and parents apart, and that lead to the violence we can read about in the book Linked to Life? We do not combat such attitudes by condemning them alone. Information and knowledge are essential. The same is true of advice for parents and children. Rights and obligations must be clearly communicated in school and in all other arenas. Low-threshold provision for young people in need of emergency assistance and temporary housing services are also important. The inter-pellant was concerned that the fight against coercion takes place on a broad front and unites political Norway. The Labour Party fully agrees. Those who are subject to or are at risk of forced marriage shall receive the assistance they need. Girls and boys, straight and gay, have the same right to decide about their own lives. We cannot accept attitudes that are repressive and offensive. Abuse cannot be eliminated by cultural differences. The notions of honor and shame must be confronted. Violence must be punished. Young people who are subjected to abuse should know that we are on their side – without reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3144	I would like to congratulate the representative, Octay Dahl, on raising the LHBT perspective on the issue of coercion. I wanted to take the floor in this matter, for forced marriage is unacceptable, regardless of sex or orientation to the one being hit, and must be combated on a broad front. Through the Government’s Action Plan against Forced Marriage, Skeiv Worlden received grants up to and including 2011. But from 2012, the LHBT perspective should only be focused. Exactly what that means, it's not good to know. The fight for the rights of the homosexuals is still ongoing. In many communities and environments it has become much easier to be gay in the last ten years. That's good. But still there are many homosexuals who are afraid of condemnation, and who refuse to stand up with their legend. Unfortunately, many homosexuals with a minority background are involved. I believe it must be obvious that this issue is included as a separate part of the government's work against coercion, which the Council of State, in my opinion, has also explained well. Forced marriage is an atrocity and must be combated. I believe it must be combated regardless of gender and orientation. The effort towards coercion has produced results, and the Institute for Social Research concludes in its second interim report that: ‘The action plan has led to a strengthening of both relief measures and the prevention of coercion.’ But we're far from the goal. As long as young people are still subject to forced marriage in Norway or to visits to their parents’ country of origin, the Progress Party will continue to fight – fighting for everyone’s right to choose their own lifelong agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3162	I would also like to thank the interpellant for this important interpellation and for a solid work over several years. I would also like to thank the Council of States, which has shown the same commitment and the same interest in this field. It is clear that the interpellant is quite right in its approach to this issue — both that this is an additional problem for those who experience it in the immigrant communities and that there is actually a problem in Norway. Forced marriage is not a problem in the Norwegian population, but it is still a long time before the acceptance is there. Unfortunately, there is even a risk of both being threatened and being subjected to violence if you are an LHBT person in Norway – also from ethnic Norwegian people. We who have open Facebook pages and e-mail addresses can tell you that there is a lot that comes in there that doesn't exactly deserve the status of protective views or culture. I'm very concerned that we're discussing this. Too many people, this actually applies to life. The case of Fadime was mentioned. I was in Stortinget, when that matter came, and immediately took it up there. It's about these old-fashioned, patriarchal cultures and traditions where you own your children. You own your daughters in particular, and you own your sexuality in particular. I fully agree with the representative Haugli, who says that this view of children, this view of marriage and this view of control has no place in Norway, in our culture and in our systems. But I fear that there are still some here who are trying to find different types of cures for people who have gay lay or are an LHBT person. It's unfortunately like this in many places. I don't think we should be afraid to take this up, not even in religious environments, because the human rights are sympathisers at this: marriage is incompatible with coercion. It shall be of free will. Whether it's love or not, I'm not going to put up with it, but it's going to be of free will, that's what's important. Then I believe, if there is a conflict with some religious judges, that these are the human rights we politicians must adhere to, because we have committed ourselves to that. The social coercion that is associated with some traditions, I think is much stronger than any of us can imagine, sail if there might be small variants of it also in different types of families or communities. There is a tremendous feeling for those who are exposed to this: what do the others say, how will the social environment condemn us as a family if we allow this? But culture and tradition are constantly changing. Norwegian culture has changed dramatically in this area. I was an adult before male homophilia was allowed in Norway. It's no longer since. So something happens, but it doesn't happen by itself. We have to take care of what is protective, and then we get rid of what is bad both in our culture and in the cultures of others. Unfortunately, someone has to take the noise and the fight. There's an awful lot of personal risk and a very bad break for a lot of people who do. What becomes incredibly important for the authorities is to build up an assistive device that is clear at the moment one dares to step out – for many it concerns life – so that one can actually get protection, and that protection is strong and lasts until one may have to change identity. I think that will also apply to some of the LHBT people, because I believe that the condemnation there might be – to say it that way – double, if not triple, in many environments, and that the risk of inflicting not only the anger of the family, but the anger of many, is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3181	First of all, like the other speakers, I too would like to commend the representative, Octay Dahl, for raising a topic that is not one of the most prominent issues in the public debate, namely forcible marriage with an LHBT focus. As the interpellant himself says, all forms of coercion are completely unacceptable, regardless of the sexual orientation or gender of the victim. It's a serious assault anyway. However, forced marriage itself is a form of violence in close relationships that has gained increasing attention in recent years, as stated by the Council of State in its statement. Nevertheless, no reliable information is available on the number of girls and boys in Norway who are subjected to forced marriages each year. We lack preliminary national registration procedures and statistics on the number of cases coming to the auxiliaries, but from the public and voluntary auxiliaries an increasing number of forced marriage cases is reported. It may indicate an increasing awareness of rights and opportunities to get help, and therefore many dare to oppose such abuses. But this is an assault committed by those who were supposed to be the closest, and as in most of that type of assault, it is most likely significant darkness. But we know something: Forcibleness is, along with sexual mutilation, a form of violence and a violation of human rights, which is mainly in families with migrant backgrounds. So when Oktay Dahl raises the question of coercion in an LHBT perspective, we're talking first of all about a minority in the minority, and we're talking about coercion with a person of a different sex than what you feel natural attraction to. We're also talking about youth, which is initially even more vulnerable than adults when it comes to assaults that then until those degrees practice violence against the very innermost and the most private, which destroys an identity that the victim himself may still strive quite a lot to define for himself. Maybe the family doesn't know that the youth they force on marriage belongs to the LHBT minority. Maybe they know that, or maybe they suspect it. If so, the infringement is even worse if possible. This means that the action plans against coerciveness, where we dare to tackle the cultural conflict, are important. But that also means that we have to work so much on the mindset in terms of attitudes towards LHBT people in general, and in the immigrant communities in particular. This means that we need to be aware of the special situation of LHBT applicants for asylum and placed on reception. The Ministry of Justice and Security must include this issue in the ongoing follow-up work of the so-called Berge Committee, NOU 2011: 10 In the waiting room of the welfare state, which is about the reception offer for asylum seekers. This means that we need to focus on the special situation of LHBT people in the treatment of asylum applications. We've seen some examples of rejections being justified on the grounds that people can only live in hiding with their lay. But back to LHBT people and coercion: As mentioned, this is a combination that we usually find in some immigrant environments. A good integration policy will thus also be of importance in combating both coerciveness and negative attitudes towards LHBT individuals. The crash has just received the Report. St. 6 for 2012–2013 on a comprehensive integration policy for treatment. Here is the problem that the interpellant travels. The ability of girls and boys to make independent choices for their lives and their future in the field of education, vocational selection and the choice of spouse is discussed. The fact that parents and caregivers support young people’s independent choice of life is crucial – we all know that. The significant challenges LHBT people with a migrant background may face in the Norwegian community are addressed. As the Council of State said, a new action plan for 2013–2016 on forced marriages, sexual mutilation and serious restrictions on the freedom of young people is to be presented. More knowledge and more targeted actions are needed, especially with regard to the group we are discussing here. I would therefore like to return to the interpellant to engage in the work on the integration message that we are starting with just over New Year's, for example. to ask Skeiv World to come to the hearing on 15 January, so we can also ask questions about what they are saying to the other immigrant organisations who are hopefully coming to the hearing. Then we can raise the challenges of LHBT youth even more clearly in the future integration policy. Please contact me as the case rapporteur for that communication, and also contribute to the debate here in Stortinget on 21 March next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3203	It looks like the effective leader of the Skeiv World nodding, so it will probably be something in January. I would like to thank you for a good debate. Karin Andersen indicated that the overall trend in Norway has been positive. I can sign that on my own. While I had never before been asked what kind of privacy I had, everyone now asks: Aren't you going to have children? It says that, in general, we have come a lot further than for example. of 1993. So in general, it's been a good development. There is reason to remember that Norway is an exception in the world, not only in terms of wealth, but also in terms of human rights – that it applies to all, including those who are happy in some but belong to a sexual minority. It is important to remember that the basis that is established there is what we are going to meet new countrymen and others with. It's important that we keep that foundation. It's not necessarily a matter of course. I think it's important with the perspective that Andersen also has, that we don't have to make this a us-and-dem-dem debate, because these are patriarchal structures that we've seen of, regardless of which religion it's about, or in other contexts. It is to a large extent interesting to look at the law in Iran, which has voluntary sexual intercourse. Then the passive party is punished with the death penalty, while the active party is punished with 100 whips. That is, if you're kind of a woman, you're going to have a death penalty, but if you're almost a bit of a man, you keep it with some whippings. It makes it visible how similar there is to working for gender equality – there are a lot of parallels here. I think it's important to remember that, as I said, we are an exception. It's a financial crisis. We see that there are neighbouring countries that have quite strong challenges related to right-wing extreme attitudes coming. If we see neighboring countries around us starting to blossom that kind of culture, we'll be able to be affected. We are also not as well vaccinated in the big community to be able to support those people that I am talking about first and foremost today. We see developments in parts of the United Nations system, where there are new alliances going on that I don't want to say are particularly lucky. Here it is important that Norway has a role, because this is about building cultures, building values. Then all Norwegian politicians have to stand together. It could also be a little reminder to 2013 that when we are going to argue about one and the other against the election, there is something we have to stand together about. There are some basic values in the Norwegian community that we want to preserve, so we don't take up ammunition and shoot at each other, when we have to stick together about something far more important than parts of what we're doing then. I guess that's when the time was up. I want to show you a picture. It's from a person who didn't dare...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3223	It's absolutely right that time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3226	...to open and to tell his story.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3231	Let me start by thanking you for a very nice debate, with many wise articles. I fully agree with the representative, Oktay Dahl, that we should bring with us such a fundamental tone into the election campaign in such an important area as this, and make sure that we continue to move in the right direction in terms of both the form of debate, the words we use, and also in decisions. I mean it can be challenging, I want to say that. When we look at developments in this area, the degree of acceptance in our society and inclusion, it is also related to gender equality policy in general. Let me also dry out mentioning feminism in that context, where sexual roles have been taken into account and how gender roles can be either restrictive, or that you can develop them and get a greater degree of freedom. The feminism project has been freedom of choice and liberation from conventional, stereotyped ways of thinking about sex. This has meant that choices have increased, and that it has also been easier to have so-called unconventional gender expressions. There's a lot of special concepts in this particular political area that you have to learn, but these are also pretty important things, because there's a lot of connection here. It's not long since I was sitting with a man of age with me seaman who was from South Africa, who came from a Christian environment, and who told how he sailed was expelled from his family when it became clear to them that he was gay. They're not in contact today. This is also true of many people in Norwegian society. There are many people who can't be open, who can't be honest. There are many youths who are not at all afraid to explore their sexuality, or who they must now be, what kind of identity they have, who they should be in love with, in fear of being defeated or subjected to harassment and exclusion in their environments. This is true in Norway today. So this is an ongoing fight that we have to work with on the broad front, as it's been said. I fully agree with Karin Andersen that it is crucial here that we work to take care of what is worthy of our culture, and that we get rid of what needs to be changed. I want to say that when you talk about the uniqueness of Norwegian culture, it is fortunately changing. What you once viewed as unique and protective, we look at today with shame. I'm glad we're changing. You can't expect people to change overnight after travelling from another country with much stronger patriarchal flows than we do in Norway, but we need to work systematically for it, with information, with knowledge, using the social knowledge training and the introduction program, to make everyone who works in this area aware that they don't get blinded by what they have in front of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3246	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3260	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3274	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3283	The 2012 downturn shows that the economy is going reasonably well in Norway. The government's revenue is going to be $39 billion. kr higher than that of the Stortinget, which took place last autumn, in the treatment of the state budget for the current year. The total cost is going to be 9 billion. kr lower. The total profit is going to be 48 billion. kr higher than assumed. If one corrects for oil costs and oil revenue, the so-called oil-corrected profit, it's 15 billion. kr higher. There will be a total spare in the rest of the world. The figure shows that the total surplus on the state budget is now at 389 billion. kr. The distance to the action rule is approx. 23 B.C.E. kr lower than the 4 pst path one could have used. The figures show that the Norwegian economy tolerates significantly higher activity than expected, reflecting higher tax revenues. So we haven't experienced higher inflation or higher interest rates because of higher activity in the economy. From the point of view of an opposition policy, where one senses that the budget debates about the harvest are used to indicate the millimetres exactly how much money one tolerates, this should be a reflection – in years as last year. Despite strong claims that change in money use in relation to government proposals will create inflation, we have seen that this is not the case. It is also a bit strange when significant increases in petroleum investment from year to year meet with a shoulder pull. There are some changes in the new age, based on a new estimate of what money is needed. It is quite natural, and the committee is behind the changes that are being made. I want to spend the rest of my speaking time raising some of the proposals the Progress Party believes should be included in addition. When the Gardermoban was built, workers' party politicians promised that this would be a very profitable project. It looked like it wasn't, and one had to cancel the investment, i.e. the cost. One did, but said that since this was something that was already built, it would not affect the activity of the economy. Even if it happened ‘over the line’, it should not be treated like that. The Progress Party has proposed – most of all, we can say, to be kind to the government, since they are constantly getting the hell out of the Riksrevision for the way the toll system is being treated – that we like to delete tolls, so that there is a Christmas present for the drivers. This will not lead to increased pressure in the Norwegian economy because it has already been built. We're inputting this. It will be good within the increased financial framework that the State has received. We propose that a little more money be allocated to investment in new vehicles. There is a need in the police that is significant. Thirty million. It's in here. In the 2013 budget review just a few days ago, there were a number of red-green politicians who were concerned about the farmers in Troms who were hit by the flood, but none of them were concerned enough to propose to grant them money. We suggested that with the economically increased space for action that is, it can be added to the effusion. We propose 25 million for the Christmas measures of voluntary organisations for disadvantaged people. kr. Research on ME, the Church's Family Protection, increased border control and acquisition of new scanners and cameras at border crossings are of practical benefit, as one can launch quickly, as there is an increased room for action, and as one has not chosen to prioritise in the budget for next year. This is something we recommend should be done. I am fully aware that there is considerable disagreement in toll debt in this room, but all the other proposals have a total sum that is so small that it should be possible for the Stortinget to show room to use a little bit of the extra income that has come to prioritise this. Now one has actually chosen for 2012 to raise capital from state companies that are in practice being saved by buying shares abroad. I can't see that it's a good way to build the country. With this, I address the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3302	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3305	Now we're dealing with the 2012 budget that's just out of date. It is not a dispute over the budget either for the current calendar year or for the next one. It is an update of the budget, with technical adjustments and new estimates. The update shows that the budget has been strengthened. The Norwegian economy is strong. The estimate for oil money use has been reduced compared with the national budget presented in October. We can enjoy that. The reason is that both the expenditure estimate is reduced and the revenue estimate is increased. The estimate of taxes and charges from the mainland economy is overall unchanged from the national budget. When expenditure has been lower than estimated in the budget last autumn, it is primarily due to lower expenditure on sick leave and other schemes under public health. In line with usual practice, we do not use reduced expenditure or increased revenue to increase investment in other areas in the slack of the budget year. We would also not cut the budget if the picture were the opposite. We are challenged as to why we follow the rule of action so strictly, when the estimated use of oil money in any case changes by several billions throughout the financial year. But it is when the budget is presented that we can measure whether we succeed in complying with the rule of action, in making the right use of oil money, in giving a proper budgetary impulse. This is when the budget is presented – not when the phase is presented – we can measure whether we are able to contribute to predictability and safe economic governance. But are the estimates good enough from the beginning? To that I would say the following: the development of tax revenue depends on the development of a number of uncertain sizes, such as employment, wage growth, construction, car purchase, private consumption and business profitability. Changes also tend to move in the same direction, for example: Employment growth could be combined with higher wage growth. In a budget of over 1 000 billion. Even small percentage changes can mean several billion kroner. Thus, the fact that budget figures change as well as developments are known through the financial year is not, in itself, alarming. One way to measure the precision of estimates is to compare with other countries. The figures show that the revisions in the Norwegian tax estimates are not particularly large in an international perspective. For 2012, the changes are also clearly smaller than we have seen in the last few years. We must also bear in mind that developments in the budgets in the years following the financial crisis have reflected the uncertainty about macroeconomic estimates. There are still uncertainties and imbalances in the world economy. The real crisis in Europe is the unemployment crisis. Millions of people face an uncertain future. Norwegian export companies also notice the crisis in several ways. The experience of the last ten years shows that our fiscal framework is working well. Norway has done a lot right. But we've also been lucky. If the oil price falls sharply, the gear that pulls the Norwegian economy forward can go in reverse. During the financial crisis, several countries felt that what they thought was stable tax revenue failed when the economic cycle turned upside down. Similar events can also happen to us. Now we have good times for the Norwegian economy. In good times, we guarantee the basis for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3328	The new phase of the budget shows that we can enjoy lower sick leave, positive developments in tax revenue, and Norway continues to benefit from high oil revenues and high oil prices. At the same time, trends also exist in the Norwegian economy that need to be taken seriously, particularly in relation to low productivity developments, high cost growth, and, as the latest NHO cyclical survey survey showed, the lowest investments in mainland Norway over 40 years. However, I do not want to use this opportunity to take the major macroeconomic debate. We get good opportunities to do that even when we get in the new year. I agree with the representative, Dag Ole Tegen, when he says that the budget balance should not evolve into an ordinary budgetary round. That's what the Right has always held on to. We have both an ordinary budget, and we have revised the budget – the ageing should not be a common rebalancing in policy areas. However, I think that the representative, Dag Ole Tegen, takes on very strict budget glasses when he creates the impression that there is only an update of the budget. There is a long tradition, both while the Workers' Party has been in opposition, and while they have been in position, that some obvious weaknesses have been corrected at the end of the year. It has also happened under the red-green government. That's why the Right has chosen to join the Christian People's Party, the Left and also the Advance Party on a couple of points that we believe are particularly important to correct at the tamp of the year, because there are obvious weaknesses. One is related to research at ME, where it was expected that the Research Council would grant money a few weeks ago, but the Research Council did not, however, because the projects were too poor, but because there was no money. That is why we believe that 9 million should be allocated. kr for this important research for many who are struggling with ME. We also believe that there is a reason to set 10 million. kr to non-governmental organisations working among the poorest in our country now prior to Christmas. I registered that the Minister of Finance at P4 today said you could be a little rough as it approaches Christmas. I agree, most of us can be a little rusty when we're out shopping for Christmas, but there are also some people in our country who don't have the same chance of being noisy, but who need our generosity. That's why the Right believes that we're going to cancel out with $10 million. kr to non-governmental organisations, which do an incredibly important job for very many people before and during Christmas. With this, I would like to address proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3341	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3344	I take the floor to stress what several previous speakers have said, that the budget for 2012 has confirmed that the Norwegian economy is going well, and that the government's economic policy and the framework over several years are proving to have worked very well. The sum of the total income and expenditure shows that at the end of the year we are going to be in positive. Compared to many other countries, we are in the very lucky situation that we do not cut budgets. The surplus will help us to take out less of the oil fund than intended. There is reason to stress that the Stortinge treats the budget once a year. We're just done with that – it's now in December. Both the revision and the ageing are an adjustment to the adopted budget, where there are deviations from the estimates adopted in the budget, in order to use that concept, such as tax revenue, sick leave costs and changes in oil revenue. New age is not a new budgetary procedure at the end of the year. It is as expected the Progress Party that proposes an additional It is true that the budgetary procedure should be resumed 14 days before the end of the year. I notice that there is no overall opposition behind this proposal. Should I have started a debate on debt cancellation, which I have not planned to do, there were probably other areas in the budget I would have prioritised in front of eradicating the debts of the toll companies. I think SV would have focused on the health sector, on the hospital sector, on the care sector, which are areas that, after all, would have been given higher priority. There are no other areas with greater growth and greater investment and maintenance than the transport sector in the last four to five years, both for road and rail. However, as I said, there is a debate I have not planned to start, because that kind of question may be part of an ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3353	The government’s proposal to re-balancing the 2012 government budget demonstrates once again that Norway is an exceptional country in Europe. At the end of the year, we can account for an increase in tax revenue of SEK 7.5 billion. kr. We can, for example: reduce the provision of sick pay and daily pay for the unemployed, and we can reduce the use of oil money in relation to the originally agreed budget. Norway is an exceptional country in Europe. It's not just a result of oil revenue, it's also a result of good and safe governance of the country. The government may settle the financial year 2012 with more than a character passed. Good economic governance and an increased surplus in the state budget provide room to take up the desire for a more profitable use of money than has previously been agreed by the Stortinget. It is primarily the Advance Party that enjoys this bruteness. We also know that from previous debates on the rebalancing of the State budget. Out of the 25.5 billion Progress Party, expenditure in the 2012 budget will increase by 98 p.m. to delete tolls. The size is well known that the Progress Party is in principle against road toll financing. The majority also knows that this is a form of funding that local populaces around the country have taken initiatives, also with the support of many progress party politicians locally. Then the Progress Party will also allow 400 million. kr extra in value added compensation for the voluntary sector. This is a good thing. I can understand that the party wants to override the government. However, the fact is that the VAT compensation scheme, which is intended to secure 1.2 billion. kr to the voluntary sector during 2014, is a red-green promise followed up. For the next year, there's an increase of 320 million. kr. That means this system is approaching 1 billion. kr for distribution. In the Central Party, we have registered with pleasure that Freewill Norway has expressed their deep satisfaction with the government's efforts in this area. So the Progress Party will also grant additional 30 million. kr to flood-damaged farmers, just enough above the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs’ budget. Yes, it is important to ensure that both flood-damaged farmers and others who are exposed to flooding are covered by the damage they have caused. It is worth noting that the Ministry of Agriculture's budget is set at 163 million. kr for damage to the natural environment for 2012. It's almost a double from 2011. Now, when you have a better overview, the number in this case is going to increase by 57 million. kr for damage to the natural environment and 40 mill. kr for crop damage. It is commendable that the Progress Party shows care for the peasants. However, it seems special that today they will allow 30 million. kr extra, while for 2013 they will reduce the Ministry of Agriculture’s budget by nearly 5.5 billion. kr. Then I must finally say that the government party gathers at the budgetary procedure last year to grant additional 1 million. NOK for the operation of the Church's family protection. The Church's family protection is doing a very important job, which we want to underline the importance of. I understand that the proposal from the opposition party about an extra million allowed today is the reason that not all of the million is disposed of after the order. If this is the case, the Centre Party has led it to be cleaned up, so that these funds are distributed in the same way in 2012 as in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3372	I'm not going to repeat the macroeconomic figures that both the case rapporteur and Tegen were in on, but just join it. I will briefly show a few suggestions from the Christian People's Party in cooperation with the other opposition, which I believe is well-founded, and is – I might call it – a sausage in the slaughtering days when we talk about the state budget. First of all, the Church's family protection, on which the representative Meltveit Kleppa was involved: here we are talking about an allocation that I know the Center Party was strongly involved in getting in place. If I'm not mistaken, I guess the representative Lundteg was a strong driver in his day. The point is that this appropriation has been released by the Ministry to all the offices – spread it beyond. We have seen – at least that was the point when this was taken up at the hearings and that there was a response from the red-green side – that it was the central organisation of the Church's Family Protection, so that they would carry out development work on behalf of the church family protection offices, which was to have this allocation. That's what has not happened, and in our opinion, is in conflict with the assumptions. I'm very happy if that's how the Center Party is going to go a little closer to this in the seams. Because we have asked the Council of State, and the Council of State believes that the money has been properly allocated, in other words, that they are scattered to all the offices, while what we thought was the point, that is, a central allocation to strengthen the overall work, so it was not our proposal in that way. So that's what the representative Sanner ME said. There is the situation in which the research projects are highly professionally recommended by the Research Council, but as the Swedish Council of State informed in this room, it was not money, but he would like to see something done. When you have a balanced budget in front of you like what we see today, I think it might be a little strange that you don't use the opportunity. With regard to voluntary organisations, we're increasing by 10 million. kr. It's just to listen to what was said at the NRK Ostland broadcast today early: the slum station of the Salvation Army has had 20 pst. increase in last year’s number of enquiries, not least an increase in the number of families with children. In other words, this is money that you could spend, and used it well, within the days that are left of this year, and that can be justified by a sharp increase in the number of requests from people who want and need food and clothes. Finally, we know that it was a comprehensive and successful, one must say, marking the Nobel Peace Prize in this city a few days ago, but it has also required quite a lot of Oslo police, not least. We assume that the Oslo police are not burdened with the additional expenditure, which in turn will have to lead to the general fight against crime in this city being harmful, but that this will be taken from the Central Police Directorate. So finally, we agree that there should be no rematch. But when the representative Tegen and several others say it's just an update: well, it's not just that. I have e.g. See that in the Prime Minister's office a new driver is employed. You strengthen the administrative staff with two posts. In other words, there is room for change in the adopted budget, at least when it can be said that it is under the heading of ‘update’, while in reality it is a clear strengthening of the Prime Minister’s office. We don't agree with that, but you might have to be a little bit careful with the reasoning you're using.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3389	It has almost become a tradition that on one of the last days, before Christmas peace settles, we are dealing with a new aging of a budget that shows that we are not only lucky, but that we are fortunately placed here in Norway. Once again, a new age shows that we're spending less oil money than what we were thinking of, and that tax revenue is increasing more than what we assumed. Of course, it's isolated positive, but it also gives cause for some reflections. One reflection is in the extension of the debate we had on Tuesday, on the dynamic effects of fiscal policy. I remember well until 2004. In January of that year, the then leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, announced that through a new tax reform, with targeted tax reliefs, tax reliefs would finance themselves through a larger activity in the economy. This was ridiculed in VG on 29 January 2004 by Jens Stoltenberg, who called Lars Sponheim ‘Voodoo-Lars’ because he believed that it was not possible to implement such a reform without cuts in the budget. In retrospect, it has been found that Lars Sponheim was right – even in the new aging this year. Now it's the same rhetoric about property taxes. If the taxes on wealth are removed or reduced, we cannot afford school, health, old and culture. The truth is, in 2012, we could have reduced the property tax by 4 billion. kr and still used exactly as much for school, health, old, culture, etc. That's what the numbers in the new age show us. The tax receipts from wealth and income are estimated at about 4 billion. kr more than budgeted. In addition, the figures show us that the wealth tax is an increasingly less important part of the tax system. The second reflection concerns the whole rule of action, or the use of oil money. What the money is going to be for, I'm going to leave it in this context. In 2006, we estimated that the oil money consumption in 2012 would be about 100 billion. NOK if we used 4 pst. static. Then everyone thought that the government that was sitting then was going to have the room of action of the times. The truth is, in 2012, we seem to spend 109 billion. kr – and then strongly corrected from the originally budgeted, which was 122.2 billion. kr. And even though we're using significantly more than what we did in 2006, it's just 3.3 pst. the expected real return on the State pension fund abroad, i.e. well below 4 pst. I've previously been skeptical of the Governor's proposal to change the rule of action to 3 pst. I'm much more insecure now. A lot of people suggest that that might make sense. One reason is the future prospects. Social security is underfunded by over 100 billion. kr. At the same time, we are facing perhaps the biggest demographic change Norway has seen for a long time. The fire wave is coming, and the underfunding of the population will only increase if we don't take any action. There is little or no will for that. Therefore, the grip is fast that we need to use less of future pension liabilities – oil wealth. The third reflection is linked to the CO2 management in Mongstad. Once again, the appropriations are greatly reduced when we come to the budget audit. Unfortunately, Mongstad has become more and more a symbolic project with no real content. It is budgeted freshly every year — in the same way as it is done with the purchase of climate allowances — but when we come to the end of the year, it turns out time and again that climate and environmental money is not being used and could have been used in areas where the effect would have been much greater. In conclusion, if I want to have a wish for the next year, it is that we take prejudiced and honest debates on precisely these issues: on fiscal policy, on the rule of action must and should be tightened up, and on environmental and climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3414	There is a muted tone in the debate, and I am not going to contribute to raising the temperature in particular. I want now, as we have the last round of the 2012 budget, to give some consideration to the situation that the Norwegian economy is in right now. The year 2012 is the story of 14 days, but when the 2012 story is going to be written, at least the economic history, it is that the economy is going reasonably well in Norway, and that we are at a slightly different course than many of the countries around us are. The situation in Europe was marked by uncertainty as we entered into 2012, and it is also marked by uncertainty when we leave 2012, but perhaps with a slightly more hopeful approach. Former president of Czechoslovakia, Václav Havel, was once asked how he looked at future developments, whether he was optimistic on behalf of the future, and then Václav Havel said, "I'm not optimistic, I'm not pessimistic, but I'm hopeful." I believe that a concept we can use about the situation in Europe by the end of 2012 is ‘hopeful’. Things have happened at the end of the year that can help us gain greater confidence in the development of the European economy. Nevertheless, Europe averages — different from country to country — into 2013 with almost zero growth, or at the lower end of it, and the growth outlook for 2013 is relatively low in the euro area. At the same time, new measures have been put in place for Greece in the last round, and the framework for a euro area banking union has also been put in place, which, in my view, could help build confidence in the euro and what is happening in Europe. But the fundamental challenges in the European economy have not been solved, with deficits, high debt burden and not least an increase in unemployment over the year. 25 million people enter the new year without a job, many of them with little hope for the future – young people who have been unemployed for a long time, who lose the opportunity for good education and to get a foothold in the workplace. In other words, there are major challenges in the area around us, and there is reason to be aware of what is happening with our closest partners in Europe. But all of these are themes that we'll come back to at different crossroads in the year we go into. As a speech to the representative Tende: I am very much in favour of an open and conscientious debate in many areas, and I hope that we can continue to have good debates on economic issues and challenges in 2013. Finally, let me just say the following, and that's that it's going well in the Norwegian economy, but there's challenges that we're going to get back to. I also want to say that there is no coincidence that we are where we are. It's a result of hard work over a long period of time, in which many people have taken part. It is not natural that this will continue, but our most important defence agency is that we can jointly build greater resilience into the Norwegian economy. With those words we can take a little bit of time off, but at the same time be observant of what meets us around the corner when we go into a new year in a little bit. There are enough challenges to address in the Norwegian economy, and not least there are enough of the challenges in the countries we see around us. But by holding a good and tough course, we have greater assumptions than many others, and it's important that we use that opportunity together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3438	Let me just start by saying that I share the hope for Europe, and I also agree that the Norwegian economy is facing some challenges that need to be addressed. But when I drew myself in line, it was still because of the question that has been hanging a little in the air after the article by the representatives Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Hans Olav Syversen about the Church's Family Protection Foundation. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa said that the error that has been made must be corrected, namely that the money has been distributed to the various offices and not to the central administration, as the assumption was. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether this matter will be settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3447	I am asking for an understanding that it is difficult for me to go into the specific matter, as this falls within another state council. But what I can promise now at the end of the big year is to pass it on to the relevant State Council, so that we can look at the matter, if that is the case, among other things. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa says. So I can promise the representative Sanner that it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3452	I understand that the Council of State can't take it off. But for those who are concerned about this, I will just make it clear that the Council of State has blackened the Storting in connection with the matter we are now dealing with, and she has concluded her answer with the following: ‘In my opinion, the decision of the State Budget for 2012 has been followed up at this point.’ To the extent that you mean something else, and I guess a lot of people here do, I hope you use the channels you have to review this again. So to the question, has the government come up with an opinion as to whether the significant extra costs incurred by the Oslo Police in connection with the Nobel Peace Prize are to be covered by the Oslo Police themselves, or is it to be covered by the Central Team?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3464	Back to the first part of the line: I noticed in what the representative Meltveit Kleppa said, and as it comes up in this debate, I think it is right of me to pass it on. When it comes to the second question, I'm actually asking for an understanding that in case this is a topic that belongs to another state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3471	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that we now, before being called to vote, deal with case No. 15 on the amended agenda and that the matter is therefore moved before case No. 14, which is Unit. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3487	The government budget is settled in balance before borrowing transactions, as a responsible person has to do. Gross financing needs are therefore determined by the difference between lending and repayment of appropriations over Cape. 5999, State resources, heading 90, loans. Gross financing needs are estimated to be around 124.7 B.C.E. kr in 2013. For the treatment of Inster. 5 S for 2012–2013 the Stortinget adopted an increase in relation to the government proposal under Cape. 2410, State loan fund for education, heading 90, increased loans and interest payable. This has consequences for Cape. 5999, heading 90. In the event of an incursion, this was not taken into account when the Stortinge decided to grant Cape. 5999, heading 90. The Financial Committee therefore recommends that the Decision of 14 December 2012 be adopted under Cape. 5999, heading 90, is cancelled and that Cape. 5999, entry 90, is granted NOK 124 722 009 000 for 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3498	The representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of a unanimous financial committee, has addressed the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3506	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3514	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen presented a proposal on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is regularly asked to provide state-of-the-art information on the state of energy in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, which deals with expected power consumption and production in Norway, the availability of different energy technologies, strategies for investing in the development of new energy sources and the status of Norwegian international energy obligations.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3542	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3 and 4, from Kjell Ingolf Roupstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set a target that the energy delivered for the operation of construction should not exceed 72 TWh/year in 2020.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an ambition that the use of energy in buildings per square metre should be halved from today’s level by 2040.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e3575	The proposals Nos.1 and 2 of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party are being voted on. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to do so as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2013, to present a quantifiable energy efficiency improvement target in buildings for 2020 and 2040.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size of the budget is requested by the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2013, to provide a projection of energy use in buildings against which the expected power of 15 TWh in energy efficiency improvement by 2020 can be measured.’;» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4195	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4206	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4214	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Skumsvoll, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Bjørn Lødemel on behalf of the Right There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals restricting the right of objection of the county council/district to municipal planning and land decisions.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose its own administrative court/supervisory body to deal with complaints under municipal plan decisions.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals assessing the right to appeal against political decisions in the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4254	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 4, from the Right, which reads: ‘Document 8:124 S [[2011-2012]] The President assumes that the Progress Party will support the Right proposal subsidiaryly. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4278	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make concrete demands to the Russian authorities for the clean-up of the emissions of Norilsk Nickel in Nikel and Zapoljarny.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4299	The Progress Party has announced that they are now supporting the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4310	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4334	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–7, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 8-10, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11 and 12, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a deduction of income for gifts to political parties.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4365	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 to 10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘Law of 17 June 2005 No 102 on certain aspects of the political parties are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4398	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 102 on certain aspects of the political parties are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e4425	There is now a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to examine whether transparency considerations are adequately respected in legislation relating to campaigns and money use from sources other than political parties.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 102 on certain aspects of the political parties are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e5038	It is voted on in the new fourth paragraph of Section 18. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e5053	The Committee's attitude to the rest of I and II are then voted on. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have announced that they are now supporting the rest of the position subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e5065	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e5076	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 10 and 11 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e5102	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2012 shall be amended as follows: 315Freedom purpose70More value added tax compensation to voluntary organisations, may be transferred, granted at 400 000 000 from NOK 627 500 000 to NOK 1 027 500 000440Directorate of police and officers' seats32Investments in materials and equipment, may be transferred, granted at NOK 30 000 000571Rame grants to municipalities78Compensation for flooded farmers, earmarked, may be transferred, granted at 30 000 000 000621Aids to social services and social inclusion70Free work, may be transferred, granted at NOK 35 000 000 from NOK 54 396 000 to NOK 89 396 0001323Bombenge projects70Deletement of toll companies' debts on road projects as at 31 December 2012, may be transferred, increased at the rate of 25 000 000 0001610Increased equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred, allocated at NOK 20 000 000 from NOK 76 200 000 to NOK 96 200 000 5800 State pension funds from NOK 50 000 from EUR from EUR to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR 7 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e5294	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2012 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCrones621Assistances to social services and social inclusion70Assistances to voluntary work may be transferred, increased by 10 000 000From NOK 54 396 000 to NOK 64 396 0005800 State pension funds abroad50Assignment from the fund, reduced by 15 677 268 000from NOK 120 247 468 000 to NOK 104 570 200000»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e5376	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Prosperity, from the right, from the Christian Party, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2012 shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdeCroner781Tests and development, etc.79Other grants, can be used under item 21, increased by 9 000 000 from 48 669 000 to 57 669 000842Family protection70Contributions to the church's family protection service, etc., can be used under item 1, increased by 1 000 000 from 134 983 000 to 135 983 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e7320	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left now support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e7336	The President pointed out that it was necessary to put a new case on the agenda in order to be able to correct a decision taken at the Enlarged Bureau meeting on Friday 14 December. On this matter, the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Financial Committee. The proposal is distributed in a rich edition in the seats in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the process of Innst. 5 S at the wholesale meeting on 14 December 2012, adopted the following: [[2012-2013]] Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCrones5999State loans90Loans124 721 351 000 The decision is annulled and replaced by the following: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCrones5999State loans90Loans124 722 009 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-18.ana.ud1543e7593	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
