ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e26	The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Jon Georg Dale, has taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e32	The representative, Bente Thorsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e35	On behalf of the representatives Mette Hanekamhaug, Siv Aida Rui Skatem and myself, I am delighted to make two proposals. One is the need for a comprehensive national adult learning plan. The second is about the need to highlight the training provision given in the first year of secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e40	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e43	On behalf of me, I would like to put forward a Document 8 proposal to amend Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, on the question mark and the presence of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e48	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e51	On behalf of the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Treldal, Bård Hoksrud, Arne Sortevik and myself, I would like to propose a separate transport strategy for Norwegian travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e56	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e68	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. – The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e75	The Progress Party is pleased that, at least in the public debate, the Labour Party appears to be firmly committed to asylum policy. The question, however, is how firm the Workers' Party really is and how firm the government really is. In a chronicle of today’s Business on Saturday, the Prime Minister wrote that there was a need for ‘setting down fence posts’ in asylum policy. Barrels are very good, but it actually means that there are fences between the poles. It's like words have to be followed by action, and it's basically where the Workers' Party is missing. The Labour Party is very active in the public debate by saying no, but it lacks coherence and completeness by not following up with consequences. It is in a way that we now stand – once again, to say so, because this is a recurring problem, and it is a recurring problem because asylum policy is not enforced. It is a recurring problem that you do not have closed reception, because that means that you are refused a residence permit, but you can still stay – despite being illegal – free in Norway. It is also a humane problem that the length of the asylum procedure is too long, and that means that people have to live in uncertainty for too long. The third issue, which is at least equally relevant, is the innumerable appeals that our system provides. You can appeal to the UDI first, and then you have to appeal to UNE, and then you can send as many requests for conversion as you want. It's a challenge, even for a rule of law that wants a significant level of legal protection for people. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: What will the Labour Party and the Government do to ensure that asylum policy is coherent?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e90	First, I would like to thank you for the question, because it is actually that discussing asylum policy is a very important topic. It is central in Norway, it is central in many other countries, and it offers a good deal of difficult balances, precisely because it is about individuals. It's about people who have a hard time, it's about people who come to Norway because they hope for a better life in our country. Just because it's about individuals, I think it's important that we try to be as tidy, as predictable, as fair and as consistent as possible. The alternative is that we conduct an arbitrary, unfair and inconsistent asylum policy. Our basic starting point is that when people come to Norway and seek asylum, those who are persecuted, those who need protection, should be allowed to be. On the other hand, we have to be willing to say that those who are not persecuted, who do not need protection, should not be. That is what is enshrined in the Foreign Affairs Act, and to which a broad majority here on the Stortinget have joined. That is what is laid down in regulations and what this government enforces and practices. Let's do that, for example. by now we have increased the number of forced returns. The advantage of this is that we also get more voluntary returns. We do this by getting more return agreements in place, because a problem we had was that when we couldn't get back people who didn't have a right to stay, it was among other things. because there were some countries with which we did not have a return agreement, and then it was only possible to go home voluntarily. But we have no opportunity to force people to return to countries with which we do not have a return agreement. Now we have several return agreements in place. In this way, we can also more forcefully return, thereby also increasing voluntary return to these countries. We will continue to enforce that policy, in line with what a broad majority has adopted. We will do that, not least because we can then take good care of and accept well, those who are entitled to stay, those who need protection – because they have come to Norway for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e101	I agree with the Prime Minister on the need for a clean, predictable and consistent asylum policy. But that's exactly what the problem is. It is neither tidy, consistent or predictable, simply because the government lacks sanctions to enforce a refusal. In 2010, a NOU was issued under the direction of Øystein Mæland, who is now the police director. It was a sample that looked at how to limit the appeals. Let me stress: the party of progress is for legal protection, but we're not for legal protection. There has been some of the problem with this administration, that one can appeal indefinitely – it has no consequences, it never stops. So this NOU just recommended measures to limit appeals. Will the government follow up on the recommendations made by the NOU?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e118	We put down that sample because we wanted to see if we could get better treatment of the foreign affairs than what we have today, and also look at the appeals. What the Milan Committee proposed was to limit access to change requests, and we will come back to that if we want to follow up. We put the sample down because we wanted to think about it and look at it. However, it is quite right that a challenge is that everyone who comes to Norway first receives treatment in the UDI. It is thorough and comprehensive, but often difficult because you don't have identity papers, so you spend a long time clarifying: who is it really looking for? Then it would be nice to have an appeal in the UDI, and then it was supposed that a few cases should be appealed to UNE. But the truth is that almost all things are anchored on to UNE. After you have received a final rejection in UNE, you would like to continue to carry out conversion requests. There is an unlimited number of such – we have examples of up to ten requests for conversion – each time with claims that there is new information that calls for the old decision to be converted. Our problem is that it is legal certainty that we have to take care of, so there is access to requests for conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e125	Three follow-up questions are raised – first the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e128	Norway received approx. 10 000 applications for asylum. That same year, 4,074 conversion requests were dealt with, and it does not appear to be any lower in 2011. 140 conversion requests are approximately one year’s work, according to a 2010 NOU on complaints in the foreign administration. So every day, 29 people work on these issues, which in most cases are rejected. Does the Prime Minister think it is the right resource use to use so much resources to deal with conversion requests?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e133	I believe that at least it is very important that we use the resources needed to ensure legal certainty for asylum seekers in Norway. Because we're so very concerned not to reject, send home, a human being who needs protection, a human being who risks persecution if it's sent out of Norway, we're very concerned that there should be a thorough individual case-handling of each one. It is therefore right that we spend a lot of time in the proceedings. At the same time, we are committed to avoiding a system where appeals are used only to train the implementation of a bad decision. It is a dilemma that almost everyone is anchoring to UNE, and there is a dilemma that there is a very large number of requests for conversion, when it turns out that there is nothing new in the matter. That is why we have asked for a separate investigation into whether the procedure can be applied, for example. limit the number of requests for conversion but in a way that continues to ensure legal certainty. It's a demanding and not easy task to solve, because we can't put ourselves in a position where we risk sending home people who are persecuted and who need protection. That's the dilemma we have to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e140	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e143	It is an important principle in asylum matters that everyone has the right to individual treatment. It will necessarily take some time, especially if the asylum seeker does not cooperate on identity, etc. The representative, Siv Jensen, was in the position of the Mæland Committee, which was presented in November 2010, which has been at the hearing, and which should really soon come to the Stortinget – especially when you see the pressure in these matters. The more effective the procedure is proposed, including: by dividing the Foreign Office into two departments, one department dealing only with asylum cases, and one department dealing with visas and more – call it – simple issues. At the same time, the asylum seeker is given the right to attend, so that he is also given greater legal certainty, and the right to change is greatly reduced. The simple question is: When will the Prime Minister bring this matter before the Storting – or when will the government do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e153	It has not been decided, but some of the questions raised in the Melandic Committee may be things that may – I say not should – be discussed in the big news about children on the run that we are going to present before the summer. We are now discussing all this. We have reduced the sample to see if we can do better than today, but we need to ensure legal certainty, we need to ensure individual treatment, and we also have international conventions that we need to follow in terms of legal certainty for asylum seekers. Otherwise, I agree that one of the greatest challenges is identity. As well as everyone comes here without papers. Then we don't know who they are, and it makes it much harder to figure out if they're actually being persecuted. Had they immediately said who they were, in an honest way, with documentation, we would have been able to find out who was being persecuted and who was going to be, and who wasn't going to be. The second problem in terms of identity is that it is systematic to say that you come from a region or a country with which we do not have a return agreement. That means you get a final discount, you have to go home, but we can't return them, because we don't have a return agreement. Therefore, identity is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e162	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e165	It could have been tempting to ask the Prime Minister questions about how he experiences at least the last weeks' debates about the long-term asylum children who have lived on asylum receptions for three years or more, and now feel that the Progress Party is actually the party closest to the Workers' Party – but I will not do that. What the debate about long-term asylum children has taught us is that we need to have an asylum administration, an asylum policy, which allows us to deal with matters faster – so quickly that children cannot be integrated into society, as is the case with these children. Does the Prime Minister think that the foreign administration has the resources they need to manage asylum applications quickly and legally?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e172	The joyous thing in recent years is that the procedure has fallen sharply, that we now have a procedural period of about a year and a half. This means that long-term residents in Norway are not long-term residents because the length of the procedure is long — at least this is not usually the case. However, those living in Norway now will normally be in Norway for a long time because they have received a refusal but refuse to follow the refusal. So they have chosen to stay for a long time in Norway because they do not follow a decision to leave Norway. Then we might have trouble returning, either because you don't have a return agreement, or because of course it's more demanding to return people with coercion, and the best thing is to travel voluntarily. The other thing that's happy is that the number of returns goes up, both forced returns and voluntary returns. We're talking about almost a triple, that's 2.5 to 3 times as many returns now as a few years ago. So it makes it easier to give room to those who need protection, and it makes it fewer long-term residents in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e179	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e182	In recent years, the number of young people affected has increased significantly. From 2007 onwards, the number of young people with disabilities has increased by 24 pst. There should be serious concern when so many young people are told that we do not need them, that we do not have a place for them in the workplace, because among these young people, there are also many who have a desire to contribute. At the same time, it's important to look at why people get dissatisfaction at a young age. In the group of 25–39 years, a majority of those who become ill have a diagnosis of a mental illness or a complex mental disorder, so in the group of 25–39 years, the majority are actually disabled because of mental health. So if you want to do something about the increase in the number of people who are unsatisfied, you need to focus on how we stimulate and work with mental health, which is incredibly important. Today there are 3,500 mentally ill children and young people waiting for help. There are 3,000 drug users waiting for treatment. And we know that this is related – mental illness and intoxication are also interrelated over time. In debates and questions about disability, the Prime Minister will very often talk about the major reforms, about disability and the large systems. But when we look at the cause of disability, it's about suffering that the health care system is not able to provide too little help. Then my question to the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister – in view of this and in the light of the fact that disability is one of our major challenges – mean that, for example: Mental health should be prioritised in the healthcare system in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e195	I think it's very important to do what we can to make fewer people unhappy, especially young people. But before I say a little bit more about it, I underline something that is very important: Disadvantage is a system we have for those who are disabled to have a safe economy, and we must never formulate ourselves there to the point that people who go on social security, feel shame or feel that it is unworthy by receiving disability benefits or other social security schemes. The bearer of the Norwegian welfare society is that people who cannot live on their own work because they are sick, disabled or unemployed are given social security schemes. Then it's abuse – we have to shut that down. But then there's another challenge, that for a lot of people, it's that if we organized a little bit better, had a little bit more action, had more treatment, had a better working life, those who would otherwise be pushed into dissatisfaction could get into work. There are then many measures: psychiatry is important; it is strengthened and will continue to be strengthened by this government. The most important thing is that there are jobs that we can offer to those who are at the outer edge of the labour market. This means that we keep unemployment low and employment high – what is often called ‘labour pressure’, that businesses are struggling to obtain labour – there is actually something positive about it, because then there are several companies that are making more efforts to obtain the labour force they would not otherwise employ. The entrance to disability is often sick leave. We have now implemented several measures to reduce sick leave, and today we have new figures to show that sick leave is now the lowest in seven years. It's going down considerably. There may be many different reasons for this, but one important reason for reducing sick leave is probably that it is now agreed to use more classified health services – you are not quite healthy or completely ill, but something in between. The fact that we are now saying that you should use more classified search messages, i.e. half search messages, makes fewer people sick, and fewer people are going to be disapprove as a result of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e209	I understand that the Prime Minister will not really answer what I am asking questions about. This government has made a line change this year. In 2005, Gabrielsen – as Minister of Health – decided that health businesses should give priority to psychiatry and drugs more than the growth of somatic disorders. It's been stuck up until this year. This year, the golden rule, the priority of the weakest in health services, has been removed by this government — while 3 500 mentally ill children are in line and waiting for treatment. On 11 January, the Minister of Health in Stortinget said: ‘Now there has been a strong priority for drug use and mental health for many years. We see that it is also important to be able to prioritise other forms of treatment.’ So she's confirmed that it's a wild deprioritising of mental health. Does the Prime Minister agree that – with 3 500 children in line – mental health should be a priority compared to the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e221	This government has expanded mental health services, both for adults and for children. The time-limits have been reduced, several have been dealt with. The last numbers are that it's gone down from 11 pst. to 6 pst. from the third tertiary 2010 to the third tertiary 2011. I'm not saying that we're in the target, but I'm saying that when we succeed in making more offers, it's an expression that we've also been focusing on the health care system for psychiatry and mental health services, including for young people. But when it comes to disability, I think the point here is that we have to be able to do a lot of different things at the same time: more treatment is important, there are more being treated, 1 billion. extra to the roughness measures. Again: This is not enough, but there is an increased effort – more than before. But I think again you have to see a relationship between what we do in health and what we do in the labour market. What we've done now by thinking differently, namely, by scaling the search message, makes fewer people sick, and that's a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e228	Three follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e231	Psychiatric disease is initially not a chronic disease. Treatment helps, people get healthy, and not least young people who receive early treatment become healthy. At the same time, we see that this is the most common reason why young people come under permanent and temporary disability insurance schemes. The Prime Minister just said in reply to Erna Solberg that one is not in the target. In that case, the Prime Minister must disagree with his own Minister of Health and Health, for the Minister of Health said in Storting's Question Time that it was now in a way easy to remove this golden rule from Ansgar Gabrielsen that the growth of the drug and psychiatry alone would be higher than growth in somatic matters. The Health Director also said in February that it was time to give priority to this. Well, if this happens, we know what the consequences are: Russ and psychiatry will again lose in the internal drag fights in health companies about the funds. Does the Prime Minister think that one is in the target, that drugs and psychiatry now have a fair share of the health care funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e241	I think we have to make a very clear distinction between two things. One is the question of whether the proportion should grow for one particular type of healthcare; another is whether it should grow. So this government has decided to increase the total health care effort. We've increased by billions of dollars and many more treated patients, and we're going to continue to expand. There is also room for increased efforts in both drugs and psychiatry. So you don't have to confuse the question of changing shares and changing the total effort. We want to increase the total effort, both in terms of drugs and psychiatry. That is why we have now also reduced waiting times, and fewer people are experiencing deadlines where a deadline for treatment is set. But once again -- I feel that we're at the same dilemmas every time, that we do a lot, doesn't mean that we're in the goal, that we have better results than before, doesn't mean we're satisfied. We're going to continue the escalation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e251	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e254	The Progress Party is deeply concerned that young people who want to and can do so will be permanently out of work. We know that six out of ten under 40 years of age who end up in disability have mild mental disorders, which is the main focus of these mild mental disorders. Already ten years ago, the Riksrevision concluded that there is no good enough offer of activity for that group of people. Ten years later, in the same situation, there has been no doing anything about the offer to get the activity up, to help young people with mental health problems back to work. The result is that, against his will, he is pushed into passivity. Many of the people I've talked to also experience that the redundancy money works more like a waiting room for disability than an individual, tight follow-up program. My question will therefore be: What new measures will the Prime Minister take so that more young people with mental disorders can realize their dream of a life of work rather than disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e261	First of all, I think it is very dangerous to refer to redundancy money as just a waiting room for disability. What we're doing with redundancy money is just trying to make it easier for people to get to work. It's a difficult task, it's huge individual differences, but it's an important tool that's simpler, less bureaucratic and more adapted to the individual than the different schemes we had before. We are in a situation where we have huge problems associated with people who could be at work being out of work. But we should still enjoy some things that go in the right direction, not to be self-satisfied, but to let us inspire to do more. From 2001 to 2005, there was a clear increase in the proportion of Norway’s working-age population on health-related benefits, i.e. sick pay, disability benefit, that type of scheme. Now it's flattened out, and it's probably due to a lot of different relationships, but one of the reasons is that we now have a closer, more individual follow-up of the individual in terms of work clearance, Nav arrangements, that we have qualification programmes and other measures that help more people get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e270	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e273	I ask the Prime Minister to listen carefully to the following numbers: 24 pst. Increase in the number of young people aged under the last four years, 36 000 under 30 have received social security, only 1 pst. come back to work after five years. The dropout of young people in school and work is mainly due to mental problems; they are not followed up. The Children’s Ombudsman has today referred to an increasingly poor provision of health services under the heading ‘Swiss play with children’. Russ, violence and mental disorders are affecting the children. 16 pst. by municipalities reduce mental health services in 2012. 220 annual works have been reduced since 2008. Interaction reform has put mental health on hold. No economic instruments are related to mental health. We lack more than 2,000 new homes for long-term illness. The successful mental health escalation plan loses its effect day by day. What does the government do with this, other than say that we should follow the evolution and count the number of patients? It's no use.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e280	I'm deeply concerned that people get sick, I'm deeply concerned that young people don't get good enough health services, whether they're in drugs or psychiatry. But I am pleased that the representative Davøy says that we have had a successful escalation plan, because that means that everything cannot be completely black – if we have just implemented a successful escalation plan within psychiatry and within drugs. Because we increase the overall framework of healthcare companies, their ability to treat more patients, there will also be more treatment provision in the area of drugs and psychiatry. We also know that very many young people are in a situation where problems start at school. That's why maybe the most important thing we do is to try to reduce the drop-out rate in high school. What we have launched with New GIV – the measures that are now being implemented in cooperation with county municipalities – is once again so that we cannot say that the problem is now solved, but we have had the first figures indicating at least some positive developments in relation to the reduction of high school dropouts, which are important in relation to young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e287	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e290	I want to address the situation of the long-term asylum children. There are about 450 asylum children who have lived there for three years or more. I would like to invite the Prime Minister to a small exercise – now only to talk about asylum children, not to point to everyone else, but that we are now talking about these asylum children. We had a debate in the Chamber here on Monday, where the asylum children became an important topic. I want to base it on the Foreign Affairs Act, as it was adopted in 2007. Then we got a change of regulations where an important point was made to take into account the best interests of children, as expressed in Section 38, third and fourth paragraphs of the Foreign Affairs Act. It says that immigration-regulating considerations can be taken into account, but the best interests of children must be taken into account. Among these, emphasis should also be placed on the relationship of children with Norway. Child's best is important. I believe that the Prime Minister agrees with me, but does he believe that the best interests of children are more important than immigration-regulating considerations? There are a lot of people who wonder after hearing the Prime Minister's opinion on these matters. The Oslo Workers' Party had an annual meeting last weekend. Then the Prime Minister was there too. There they adopted an opinion which included: read: ‘Children shall not be responsible for the actions of their parents. The child’s relationship with Norway shall be given particular attention in assessing the existence of strong human considerations as a basis for residence.’;» Does the Prime Minister think that the best interests of children should be given priority to immigration-regulating considerations? And if he thinks so, does he believe that the best interests of children are placed above immigration-regulating concerns today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e315	I'm very concerned that we are pursuing an asylum policy that takes into account children, and I understand very well all the people who are now engaged, who feel that it makes a strong impression on them to see examples, become acquainted with individuals in the field of asylum policy through television reports. For asylum policy, it is about individuals, it is about individuals, and it always makes sense. But precisely because it's about individuals, I'm concerned that we're fair and tidy in dealing with individuals. That is why I also believe that the law we have passed by a broad majority here in the Grand Duchy is a good law. That law and those regulations say that attention should be paid to the best interests of children, but it does not say that the best interests of children should be trampled on by all other considerations. If the Storting had meant it, I expect that they had passed a different law than the law that has now been passed. It has been suggested that all children who have been in Norway for more than three years remain in Norway. I believe this is a bad proposal – for two reasons. First of all, I think it's unfair. I believe it is unfair to those who have been rejected and who have followed a lawful decision in Norway and have gone home. And it's unfair to the children who are forced to return. Our country now had an overview of approx. Two hundred. I do not like that number, but I know that last year – in 2011 – 600 children were sent home by force. Many of them had been here for many years. It would be quite unreasonable if we sent someone home, while we did not send home those who receive attention. I mean, if you're going to be neat, you have to be fair. I believe that injustice and arbitrariness are a very bad starting point for dealing with individuals. So one is justice. The second is that if we are to take care of those who need protection, we must also use the resources on them. We are struggling today to have children living in the municipalities who are entitled to protection and have been given a residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e328	I note that the Prime Minister does not want to talk very much about the little over 450 children who live on asylum reception today, who have lived here for three years or more. We also talk about children born and raised in Norway, who have no relationship with any country other than Norway. In the past, we have made changes to the Foreign Affairs Act – in 2004 and 2007. In 1996, all children who were in church asylum were allowed to stay. It was the Labour Party's own Minister of Justice, Anne Holt, who took care of it. So we've seen in the past the need to make changes so that children's best interests are taken care of. Now the time is ripe for it again. Will Jens Stoltenberg be involved in making changes that make the best of children better cared for with these 450 children, or will he continue with the rhetoric that they are going out?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e338	I will continue to be concerned with justice and equality for the law. I think it is a dilemma that, in 2011, in line with the adoption of a broad majority of the Stortinget, we sent out 645 minors. They were sent out because the Storting has passed a law. We've been practicing it in a way that makes the best way for children to be given weight, but it doesn't trump everyone else. About 40 pst. by those who come to Norway and seek asylum are children, siblings of children or parents of children. That means, of course, that if we liberalise children, parents must also be allowed to remain, and then we are talking about a significant liberalisation of Norwegian asylum policy. I feel that there are a lot of people who want a consistent asylum policy, who support today's asylum policy, but who do not like the results of that asylum policy. Then, as politicians, we have to make a choice. I am open to looking at adjustments, as the Minister of Justice has said several times, but a comprehensive liberalisation I believe is unfair and affects those who have requirements for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e345	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e348	We are now talking about the children who have been in Norway for a long time, who have Norway as their identity. Getting touched by human life and destiny has always been an incentive to change our society, and I'm very proud of the Norwegian people and of organizations and bishops who are now engaged in these vulnerable children's destiny. We know that in 2004, long-term children were given amnesty – they were allowed to stay. The result was not a stream of asylum seekers in 2005 and 2006. No, the opposite happened -- we got the lowest numbers. Then we see AUF leader Eskil Pedersen asking the children to stay, and Oslo AUF's leader says this is unacceptable. My question to the Prime Minister is: does Eskil Pedersen and the leader of the Oslo AUF have to wait for a change of government to get a better, humane policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e357	Under changing governments, you have returned a child – not because you're not concerned with children's fate, but because you're concerned with justice, like the law, and because no government has said that you belong to a family or are a child, you have to trump everyone else. During the breast-feeding period introduced in 2004, it was emphatically underlined that it was a one-off operation. It was only for those who had applied before 1 July 2001, and it was a 14-day time window to search in July 2004. Anyone who had applied for the day after had to be sent out – they were refused. I cannot understand that discrimination is particularly humane than trying to make general, good rules that take into account children, as we have done in the new Foreign Affairs Act. In addition, we have over 2,000 people who have been accommodated, who have been persecuted, who are to be settled in the municipalities, but where the municipalities say no. My problem is the people who don't live.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e366	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e369	It might be tempting to tell Knut Arild Hareide that I am uncertain about what that government would look like, which would liberalise asylum policy in Norway – but there is another debate. The Prime Minister has been very good at giving a quite correct description of reality, and I share a lot of what the Prime Minister says. But what he does not answer is questions about the consequences of asylum policy, because there are no consequences. Now we're discussing children. It is clear that there are difficult things and individual people and individual people we are facing. But not long ago the debate was about Maria Amelie, and before that again the debate was about the so-called MUFs. The sum of this tells us that it is the enforcement of asylum policy that is not good enough, because these problems come back year after year. Then I will repeat the question I had to the Prime Minister instead: What steps has the government planned to take to avoid these problems repeating itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e376	I think the most important measure is to enforce the policy adopted by a broad majority of the European Parliament. It has been a problem to enforce that policy because we have not managed to force people to return to very many countries. People can travel voluntarily, but if they don't travel voluntarily, we don't have any means to force them to return. Where we do not have a return agreement, they will not be accepted – they will only be sent home with the police when they land, for example. was in Ethiopia until we got a return agreement. This has been the problem: those who have been finally rejected have remained in Norway because they have not travelled voluntarily, and we have not had the opportunity to force them to return. Fortunately, we've got several return agreements in place. Then we can increase the return to these countries. The experience is that this will also increase the number of voluntary returns. This means that we can better enforce the policy. The point of better enforcement is to be able to take care of those who need protection. Our problem is that there are now 2,459 people in asylum centres in Norway, who are to be settled, who are persecuted and who need protection, but to whom the municipalities say no. [[The President clubs.]] Then my problem is that I don't have room for those who are going to have room. Then I can't... [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e385	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e388	The right is in favour of a strict, humane and fair asylum policy. After going through the foreign regulations, which are on 200 densely packed pages – there is no lack of legislation here – there is a paragraph that stands out as a humane element. It is §8-7, where it is very clear that if you have been in Norway for three years, you have cooperated on identity and at all events stated your personalia correctly, and cooperated on possible departures, and it is still not possible to return, so you will have to stay in Norway. The question is: is this something that asylum seekers are made aware of when they come to Norway, as so many choose not to cooperate on identity? The question to the Prime Minister is also: Does he have an overview of how many people stay in Norway each year because they have cooperated with the authorities and cannot be returned to their country of origin?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e395	I don't dare to explain the exact number, but it's very important and right that we first take into account children and also take into account whether people cheat or cooperate. It is clear that it will pay to cooperate, and it will not pay to cheat. I don't know the simple cases that are now in the media. Politicians decide the rules, and then we have UNE and UDI who manage the individual cases. But one reason why people don't get to stay even though they've been here for a long time is that you've been cheating. If you've cheated on identity, told that you're different than what you actually are, it might be that you try to tell a story that you're persecuted when you're not, but maybe so important that you say you come from a region where it's not possible to return just to be here for a long time. We have to avoid creating a system where we promote cheating, and where we use children to stay. There is no good for anyone – least children, because we are afraid that even more children can come, and even more children have to be returned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e402	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e406	When presenting the Right-wing Policy, the representative of Greece uses the word «human». It is a word that has disappeared in the throne when presenting government policy in the field of asylum. I also have to say that I think the Prime Minister should hold on too well to present it as if some of us want a complete release, or wish that no children should ever be returned to any country if they have first come within these limits. That's not what we're talking about. I think he should stay too good to claim that we mean anything else. What I want to ask the Prime Minister is what was said in the ‘Political Quarter’ on March 13. Then the government party representative, as far as I know, set up Heikki Holmås and said that UNE has chosen to interpret the regulation more stringently than the government wants – that is, that it is UNE's interpretation of the decisions taken in Stortinget, and the decisions made by the government, which are wrong. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e415	We have created, by a broad majority here on the Stortinget – I think it was in fact unanimous – a regulation that requires politicians to determine the laws, rules and guidelines. Then we have gone away from the old system where politicians were sitting and dealing with individual cases, where they could appeal to the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice. I think it provides a basis for a fairer, more predictable treatment of all the thousands of individuals we talk about, when we talk about Norwegian asylum policy. That is why we have adopted rules, and then UDI and UNE interpret them. If we're dissatisfied with or disagree with those interpretations, in case we change the rules. That's the way we run the country, in a humane and good way. Then we also have to be fair. Then we can't say that any children get a good that other children in the same situation don't get. So we sent home 645 minors last year. It was really just attention around one of them – it wasn't a minor either – while all the others were sent home without any special attention. And then, if we're going to make changes, we have to treat everyone the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e420	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e423	The Prime Minister has previously stated that Norway can afford to build roads without borrowing money. I fully agree with that, and it is therefore difficult to understand why the proposals of the trade unions for a new national transport plan contain massive debt financing for new road projects. In fact, the floor's proposal contains a total of 34 billion. Toll financing, if the current framework, known as the planning technical framework, and 81 billion. kr in toll financing, if you go for a planning frame plus 45 pst. There is no secret that toll financing is largely about lending new roads that drivers then have to pay, contrary to what the Prime Minister has said earlier. The drafts are based on a framework from the government, and I therefore have little faith that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will choose a completely different solution from the one set up by the department, except that the government is adding a little to the election campaign to meet the enormous dissatisfaction that there are with poor Norwegian roads. In Oppland Arbeiderblad, the heading is March 1: «Exempted: rv. 35, deferred: rv. 4, deferred: E6». The rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is right to say that it is 'laughing and stupid'. The rapporteurs in Gran, Nittedal and Lunner say that it is 'a little to rejoice about'. It is strange that the Prime Minister's own people are so disappointed by what has been presented, when Stoltenberg and other red-green politicians claim that they build more roads than anyone else has ever done before. Most people see that the fasitite after seven years of red-green rule is that the road network is still in miserable condition, as the Nations recently confirmed in a survey. If you're really going to do something about the road network, you're going to have to pay a lot of money instead of expensive loans. I assume that the Prime Minister stands firm in his position that Norway does not need to borrow money to build roads in Norway, so how will the Prime Minister finance the development of the road network in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e434	I want to finance the development of the road network in Norway through appropriations and through tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e439	Representative Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e442	Thank you for that, President! I refer to the Prime Minister's own statements regarding the opening of the E6 on Memory Sound last autumn, where he actually says that we don't need OPS projects, we don't need to borrow money – so, we don't need OPS cooperation, we don't need to borrow money, because the government has enough money. I must then challenge the Prime Minister: is it such that tolls, borrowed tolls, are anything but loans? It's actually loans that toll companies have to take up at high interest rates, and as the Prime Minister says you don't have to. Then I wonder, what is the real logic of the Prime Minister? Is it that it's okay as long as it's just the drivers who pay the extra tax and the loan? I actually thought it was the way this state has enough money, that we can actually expand the road network with state resources and not in this way skin the motorists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e449	Yes, there is a difference between whether the government borrows money or whether the toll companies borrow money. Toll companies have borrowed money, as in municipalities, county councils and others have borrowed over many decades. But once again, I think we're really talking about financial engineering. The crucial thing is how big the political will is to clear up what we call the real economy in the Norwegian economy, to investment in the way. It has this government stepped up considerably. When we were in opposition, today's government parties, along with the Advance Party, took 2 billion. kr on the transport plan. Then we were accused of being unrealistic, running with monopoly money. We overfilled the two billion, and then we brought in a new transport plan and we added 10 billion. kr in the year – and follow it up. That's why there's a lot of road construction and a lot of railway work around the country. But again, we are not in target for road development in Norway, but there is more investment in roads than in many years. We also have to be glad that although traffic is increasing, and the number of fatalities in traffic is going up and down, the trend is downwards. So there are at least some good results in Norwegian transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e456	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e459	Leading economists are increasingly in agreement with the Progress Party that the Norwegian economy tolerates more state investment in the way. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister and the government continue to send bills to the drivers. As it was said, in November 2011, the Prime Minister cut the string for the new E6 south of Mjösa. The total Gardermoen–Colomoen distance of 66 km shall have six toll stations. To contribute 6 billion. SEK in tolls for a project that costs 8 billion. NOK to be built, the drivers also have to pay 4 billion. kr in interest and collection. So the total bill is going to be 2 billion. kr for the State and 10 brd. kr for the drivers. Why is it okay for the Prime Minister that the drivers have to pay huge interest bills when they are forced to borrow the state money to build roads in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e466	I understand that people prefer to drop tolls. It is quite obvious that the nicest thing to do is not to pay for a road. But it's not that if we don't have tolls, someone else is going to pay. We are in common, either by paying taxes or by tolls, that pay for the roads. In Norway, we have decided on a combination: those who use the road, and all through the tax code are involved in paying for Norwegian roads. So if we spent significantly less tolls, we had to spend more on the state budget. Then we either had to increase the tax – it doesn't like many people either – or we could grant less, for example. for health, care and other good purposes, and that is also against people. So it's not free to build a road. Nevertheless, we are going to build a road, and then there is going to be a split between drivers, toll financing and government appropriations. But at the end of the day, everyone in this country is going to pay for these roads, and so we have increased road appropriations. The progress party promises to remove tolls. Well, that's not going to happen, no matter what the Progress Party says.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e474	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e477	In 2009, county councils were given responsibility for county roads. It was then planned to drag and maintain, scheduled for 20 billion. kr. Now there's a report that the limping only on bridges, tunnels and ferries is 20 billion. kr, i.e. excluding the county roads. Even the Prime Minister may not think that it is ‘bad’ polite to inherit something so worn out. What will the Prime Minister do when some states want to return their inheritance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e482	The county authorities took over responsibility for the county roads, and they also received increased funds to deal with it. Once again, we're a little bit in the situation that we're jointly financing. Whether the states are responsible or the state is responsible, the state is responsible for transfers to the states that enable them to pay for the roads. I believe it is a proper division of labour that the state concentrates on the national roads, and that the county roads are something for which the counties are responsible. But they also received increased appropriations to deal with those roads, including operation and maintenance. Then we're going to create a new national transport plan. We've got input from the different subjects. Then we're going to see if we're going to increase the frames further. But we added 10 billion. kr per year during the planning period at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e489	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e492	Permissions and tolls are a very good response from the Prime Minister. The Christian People's Party and the government have come together about a number of different urban packages that have become very good – in Trondheim and in Oslo. But the challenge is this: we want more people to travel collectively, and fewer to drive a private car. So we've added up to an economic incentive that means that the fewer people who drive a private car, the less money we get into the city packages. And the more people who drive collectively, the more expensive it is for the authorities. Does the Prime Minister, who is also a social economist, see this as a challenge? We have set up an incentive scheme that does not actually follow the path, because the fewer people who drive a private car, the lower the income. We have to resolve it in NTP in one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e501	I don't know specifically the arrangement that the representative Hareide referred to, but in general, I can say that if we want people to drive collectively, we won't punish them if they drive collectively, and if we want people not to drive cars, we won't encourage them to do so. Now the Norwegian charging system is designed to pay a little to drive a car in our country, and you have to have petrol taxes, car charges and other things. But what I think this is really about is toll financing, how to design it in relation to, for example, the financing of tolls. Oslopack 3. Again, there is an example of a fairly broad agreement in Norway on tolls. All parties, including the Advance Party, have been drivers of large toll projects around Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e510	Let's go to the next main question. It's going to be today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e513	The Prime Minister said in connection with the Lysbakken case – and I quote: ‘The responsibility for following procedures, laws and regulations lies with each department.’ And he said, ‘For the purposes of the Stability Code, the responsibility of each State Council lies with each State.’ The situation now is that there are several issues related to the Prime Minister's government councils: former State Council Solhjell, State Council Aasland, State Council Halvorsen and former State Council Lighthouse, and now there are also questions about the instability of Foreign Minister Gahr Støre. So many of the Prime Minister's government councils do not seem to comply with the state's financial regulations and sustainability criteria. What responsibility does the Prime Minister now have to ensure that laws and regulations are followed by his own government councils, so that confidence can be restored?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e530	I would first like to stress that, as the representative says, it is the individual Council of State in each department that is responsible for assessing its own stability and is, of course, also responsible for the proper handling of grant management in Norway. There is, of course, the main impression and the general picture that it is being done in a good way in Norway. That's my impression. But more important than that is my impression, it's also the Riksrevision's impression. The National Audit Office produces annual reports and assessments of how the money is managed in the departments, in the underlying departments, and the latest audit report states that the general impression is that this is done in a good way. So the main impression is that grant schemes and financial regulations are well managed and managed in the different departments. Then there have been some comments, but first I want to say that a comment is not the same as that it is a crime or a violation of the rules. For example, the main comment has been that it is often considered that there are not sufficiently clear target criteria for achieving a grant. Then you want to improve, clarify – make it better. There may be comments relating to the fact that notices may be even better. Then you have a dialogue, and you keep trying to do it better. From my point of view, I have stressed to the Councils – and also recently – the importance of constantly striving to make a consistently good financial management even better. The Storting Control Committee has now also asked many questions about the matter and will receive comprehensive answers. Then part of the dialogue we have with Stortinget will focus on how we can do what is consistently a good financial management in the Norwegian central government, to an even better financial management, and we will clean up what might be unclear about dealing with issues that are not as good as it should be. This is going to come back to all the state councils. We will provide the necessary answers to the Storting Control Committee, but I am committed to saying that the main picture is that grant schemes in the departments are well managed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e541	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e544	Thanks to the Prime Minister for the answer. It is important that there is trust at all levels where elected representatives have their mission, and that trust is exercised in the practical work – it is in the municipality, in the county, in the big city or in the government. I would like to follow up with a specific question to the Prime Minister: What has the Prime Minister actually done to his government members in the last few weeks to improve practice and to ensure that laws and regulations are complied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e554	Firstly, I fully agree that it is absolutely essential to have confidence that the Community's funds are well managed in municipalities, in counties, and especially in the state, the government, for which I am responsible, and that the Stortinge exercise control. One of the biggest tasks is the control function of the government and the state. The most important tool is the National Audit Office, and their assessment is that the overall picture is that it does well. It doesn't excuse the examples that might be that you don't do it in a good way. What I have done is to stress to all the Councils the importance of their passing through the procedures, that they respond thoroughly to the questions they have received from the Control Committee, and go through their own grant management procedures to make sure that they are doing well, and correct what may be missing – or inadequately managed – to improve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e561	Follow-up questions will be raised – first by Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e564	I want to focus on my question of only flexibility, because there is something the Prime Minister can actually do. A prerequisite for trust in decisions taken in the ministry is on the basis of facts and policies, not economics or other personal interests, is that even as the Council of State, you realize that you can face a stability challenge, that is, that you see that here I should make a stability assessment. Yesterday there were several jus professors who were out in the specific matter that the newspaper now revealed attached to Jonas Gahr Støre. He said yesterday that he would do the same thing today as he did at the time, so he did not carry out his own stability assessment in advance of the decision, while several jus professors said he should have made a stability assessment in advance. Will the Prime Minister contribute to the rise of the red flag a little more quickly when problems of instability arise in the department's decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e573	As the representative himself stresses, and which is underlined by many in recent days, it is the Council of State itself, the individual itself, who is responsible for assessing stability. It is a fundamental principle in the provisions of the Administrative Law on Stability. It is important, because it is the individual himself who is also the most suitable and is the closest to assessing whether there are conditions that mean that you can weaken or reduce confidence in a decision taken. I underlined this in all the cases that have been raised, that it is the state councils that have to make that assessment. It's also true that the more transparency there is about relationships, the easier it is to assess a matter and whether there are any problems of stability, and with regard to the last questions that have been raised, there has been a very large degree of transparency around them. The third is that we – the Prime Minister's office and I – underline especially when we form a new government and get new government councils, the importance of the stability provisions. Many government councils have also asked for advice. We have also had the Law Department in place, but that is exceptional, and we have had decisions that are now guiding today's issues as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e582	Sylvi Graham – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e585	I fear that the repeated questions raised regarding the stability of the Councils and even possible camaraderie have been claimed, can discredit our entire democratic system. Some state councils have even had to leave and can only be used as party leaders. The Prime Minister says that he has underlined this to the Councils of State, and he also says in Dagbladet on 6 March after the resignation of the Council of State Lighthouse: ‘We have underlined, of course, time and time again that whether it is stability legislation or other laws and regulations, it is important to follow them.’ This said Stoltenberg. Then I ask: are the Prime Minister's colleagues often in need of things to be said again and again? Since some of the things that weaken the confidence between people and elected people the most, is that there are still new revelations, that is, time and time again, I have to ask, is the Prime Minister aware of whether there can now be even more revelations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e597	Let me first underline what the Riksrevision has underlined, what I myself have underlined, and others have underlined, that the main picture is that we have a clean-up of the proceedings in respect of grant management in Norway, and that has also been established by the Riksrevision in several assessments and reports. So that doesn't mean that we can't have examples that things aren't handled in the best possible way, and that's what we now have reviews of to contribute to that not happening in the future. Of course, stressing the importance of capacity is important. I've done that, and I'm sure I will do that in the future. But I want to stress that it is the Council of State itself that evaluates it. If you are in doubt, you can talk to employees, advisers, and exceptionally, in some cases where there is fundamental doubt, you can go to the Law Department. But I'm a little warning against introducing it to the Law Department as a norm, because then I think the Law Department hardly gets to do anything else than assess the viability of all kinds of things that are impossible and impossible. The fact that we have a decision in the Law Department is also indicative of many similar issues without having to go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e604	So the oral question procedure is over, and we move on to case No. 2, the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e616	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Mr Schou to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Questions 5 and 6 from Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and Bård Hoksrud, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 7, 8 and 9 from Bent Höie, Sonja Irene Sjøli and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, respectively, to the Minister of Health and Welfare, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e633	My question to Kristin Halvorsen as Minister of Knowledge is as follows: ‘Furu Steinerskole has been refused an application for a list of first-class students in the coming school years. The background to the application is a desire to be able to provide future first-class students and their parents with information about the school’s offerings. Such discrimination reduces the ability of parents to obtain information on the choices they can make for their children. How will the Council of State ensure that all approved schools are provided with the same information and thus the opportunity to inform supervisors of their school offerings to future first-class students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e642	A list of all first classes in a municipality is a list of personal data that must be processed in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act, but access to class lists is also regulated by public law. I do not know about this specific matter, but the Ministry of Knowledge has previously dealt with similar issues. I can therefore point to the general starting point for such cases. It is the municipalities which under the Training Act are obliged to provide primary school education. It is therefore necessary that they have an overview of all upcoming first-class ratings in their municipality. This summary must be processed in accordance with the rules of the Data Protection Act. This means that the lists cannot be delivered without a satisfactory legal basis. Access rights under public law may be such a legal basis. Documents in public activities are generally public unless otherwise provided for by law, regulation or administrative action. Everyone can ask for access to these documents. This also applies to class lists or other student surveys. Therefore, other actors providing primary school education may request the transparency of such lists. However, it is important to be aware that internal documents can be exempted from public law. The Legal Department has previously stated that class lists used exclusively by school teachers and administrative staff in the organisation and planning, and not delivered to external sources, could be exempted from public disclosure under public law. It will also apply to lists used by the municipality in its planning prior to school and class classification. I would also like to remind you that even if the Data Protection Act does not restrict the right of access to personal data under public law, the person who is granted access to personal data through the use of the right of access, even complying with the data protection law's requirements for the processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e655	I record from the answer that the Council of State has not intended to intervene in order to ensure these private schools access to these lists. A few years ago, several private high schools actively went in to test this case and have been confirmed by treatment at the County Council that this is not the type of list on which there is a basis for detention. It started well with the municipality of Buskerud, and then it has gone from the county municipality to the county municipality that has then said that these are lists that it is not right to hold back. The other actors are entitled to these lists. It is in stark contrast to what the Council of State is now responding to – that her lawyers have found out. I hope that the Council of State will check this out, so that there is at least a common understanding between the County Council and the Council of State about the right to hold these lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e664	No, no, no. What is the matter is that the municipality has an obligation to assess the question of personal data and the consideration of the public law in these cases. Then, of course, it is possible for the schools to complain or ask for the County Council's views on this. But I can't take over the responsibility of the municipalities to make their balances, and that's what matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e669	It's a strange discharge from the Council of State, which has the highest responsibility. This, of course, we have to follow up with other things in the hall. Otherwise, it's not that easy for a primary school to get answers from the County State. For example, the Steinerskole at Skjold in Bergen asked for an assessment at Fylkesmannen in April 2011, and they have not yet received an answer. So these are clear things that are trained in the system, and that it's not a uniform treatment of. This must be serious for the Council of State. Then the Council of State refers to the responsibility of the public school. So we have a private school law that the Council of State has been with and fought for. It says: ‘The purpose of this Act is to help create and run private schools so that parents and elephants can choose schools other than the public ones, cf. Section 2 paragraph of the Law on Human Rights 2.’» Does the Council not see that it is absolutely necessary for senior officials to be informed of these school offerings in order to fulfil human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e683	That's not what this is about. It is clear that all supervisors have the freedom to obtain information about what had to be offered in private schools. What this is about is whether the municipalities are required or obliged to provide lists of first-class classes, so that private schools can actively visit parents who have not thought of it. That's what this is all about. So I don't think we're going to make this a bigger question than it is. This is information that municipalities have, and they are obliged to make the balance between personal data and public law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e697	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘On 18 July 2011, the Trom County Council applied for admission to the post-continuing examination in August as an examination scheme for certain subjects. The current system in which students have to wait until November–December creates a lot of stress for students who are thus subjected to additional work loads in the autumn, and students who lack final competence will have to postpone studies. When will the application from the County of Troms be completed in the Ministry and will the Council of State permit the test to be applied for?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e706	The question from the representative of Aspaker relates to an application for evaluation in the ministry. I do not expect the representative to expect us to process the application here and now, but I can say something about the balances we make in the case. I intend to have my application answered during April. I don't have an answer to shoot, but we're now investigating, among other things. the economic and administrative consequences of the application from Troms. In the following I would like to say something about what is being assessed. The Trom County Council has applied for centrally to conduct examinations in four subjects for students who are ironing out for exams. Troms is applying to offer these exams at the end of June, not in August, as formulated in the question. The examination tasks of the centrally awarded examinations are carried out by the Directorate for Education. Central examinations are currently conducted twice a year, in May-June and in November-December. The grade 1 student is entitled to a new examination on the first subsequent examination. If the application is accepted, the directorate must prepare several sets of examination tasks. It is also necessary to allocate resources to censorship and review procedures for a period in which leave is normally completed. This will involve increased costs for the country. Students at school have Norwegian and mathematics throughout the training course. When students get censorship in mid-June, it is not given that they should be able to acquire the lack of knowledge in a few weeks. I believe that measures to reduce non-response, initially must start earlier in the course of education, not when the students are really finished. It is necessary to consider carefully whether offering a new examination right after censorship for those students who have crossed out is a good tool for reducing non-response. I think these are good arguments for and against such a continuous exam. On the one hand, it is unfortunate that the students deal with exams as something they can do after one or two weeks of intensive courses. It is important to support the fact that going to high school is a continuous learning process over three years. At the same time, I see that the approval of the application for a probationary system in the County of Troms could reveal useful information about the consequences of such a system. It will also be interesting to find out if students are more motivated to retake the exam just after censorship. I think, however, that many of the students could benefit from working with the subjects for a slightly longer period of time before they went up to a new exam. The answer to the application will include, inter alia: depending on whether this is such a good measure to test out that its costs can be justified. The time of the continuous examination may be one of many measures considered in the fight against non-response. The government has, among other things: the start of the New GIV partnership to reduce the drop-out in secondary education. The new GIV is a three-year project aimed at establishing lasting cooperation between state, county and local authorities in order to improve the students’ prerequisites for completing and completing secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e723	First of all, let me say that the processing time in this case is a chapter separately – one applied for last July, one does not get a response from the department, one reminders before Christmas, but still has not received a response from the department about when one actually intends to answer. I thought it was good administration that at least you were able to report back, if that is the case that the department in this case needs more time to evaluate it. So I want to say that Troms County is actually one of the states to which the Council of State even now lends its ear in terms of thinking new about bringing down the dropout and making sure that the students move on in their training course. This applies to 275 students, so there are ten school classes in the preparatory context — so this applies to many students — and so they do not get on to a study until they have graduated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e730	As I was in my answer, there are arguments both for and against this. It is quite expensive to make new centrally awarded examinations, as Troms asks, and the question is – when keeping these costs up against the benefits it may be for students who have passed 13 years in primary and secondary school, but who have still not acquired sufficient knowledge to be able to stand on final exams – if possible, through a follow-up exam a few weeks after they have finished, to take back what has been neglected in the past. That, I think, is a perfectly fair balance. I am sure that the representative of Aspaker also agrees that these are arguments for and against. This matter has also been highlighted by a discussion we had in Stortinget not very long ago in connection with a proposal for a representative. It makes me look at this matter a little bit again. The arguments against are quite strong, but I have nevertheless decided that I should assess this matter, and we expect an answer in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e737	I hear the Council of State say that the time the county has applied for may seem a little early, but at the same time we know that there have been experiences with summer schools, where students have actually been given new, locally given exams, and they have passed. It's amazing how kids too can get together when it's really about it, and you might have had a bad day on exams. What's a pretty serious consequence when you don't get the exam before November-December, is that students who were going to study, and who could have moved on, actually have to postpone their studies for an entire year. They're walking and driving, so they don't have the opportunity to move on. There's also a cost to society that I think you should take into account here. So my appeal and my question to the Council of State is, although she thinks that July might be too early: is the Council of State willing to consider and possibly propose a little later, but still before the next school start, so that you can try out this as the county council is applying for?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e746	It will also have a bearing on the possibility of starting the study, coordinating admissions, deadlines, etc. I have this application for treatment, and I expect it to be processed in April. I have also had informal contact with the county council of Troms about this, so I understand their commitment to it. Then I get to come back to what we finally conclude with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e755	My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade is as follows: «Entra Eiendom’s new, high level of involvement in the green data centre market both on the owner’s side and on the operational side has raised significant concerns among private/public actors, especially in District Norway – actors who would rather see State active support than be out-competitive by the State itself. Does the Council of State see that state ownership can be perceived negatively in such a context, and will this speed up the efforts to reduce the country's ownership of Entra?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e764	The construction of data centres is not a regulated market. For the treatment of St.meld. No 29 for 2008-2009, Entra Eiendom AS, expressed the majority of the Economic and Social Committee as follows: Inner. S. No 264 for 2008-2009; that there is no need to impose additional restrictions on the type of property Entra engages in that it is not necessary to give concrete guidance on the size of the area the company rents out to private Neither in the setting nor in the debate in Stortinget did representatives of the Right Party or the Progressive Party express any other view. Their main point was to open up for privatisation. On a proposal from the government, Stortinget has now opened up this. Entra is already the landlord of data storage facilities and has a number of tenants, including state enterprises with significant data use. The need for data storage by customers is increasing. By pooling data storage in a specialised centre, significant savings in energy use can be achieved and valuable land in central office buildings will be freed. Entra is an independent legal entity, which operates in competition with other market players. Entra will have a competitive disadvantage in the market if they are subject to specific requirements. Whether Entra chooses to engage in the construction of a data storage centre shall be based on commercial considerations. The planned role of Entra in a green data centre is linked to the construction and operation of the building. In addition, Entra will relate to the expertise of different technology suppliers. It is also free for other private property operators to enter these data centres, if they so wish. A number of district municipalities are looking at opportunities to meet data storage needs. Through the instrument, we are in contact with such initiatives and have supported them. In cooperation with the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs and other relevant departments, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has given this much attention. Innovation Norway is an important support player in this respect, with strong involvement of Innovation offices in Norway as well as in the home country of potential foreign investors as well as in the relevant Norwegian counties and at the headquarters of Oslo. I myself have been a participant in this, among other things. by talking about these initiatives towards major players in the United States. However, this does not prevent commercial operators from looking at the possibility of meeting an existing need. There is not necessarily a contradiction between the content of the various initiatives, and also the initiatives we have in the districts, must be competitive towards other actors, whether it is private or whether it is State-owned Entra. When it comes to reducing the country's ownership, my opinion is that we don't have a bad time. This is not affected by Entra’s possible involvement in a data storage centre. Entra goes well and gives good returns. Any sale is only relevant after an assessment of whether individual buildings should be transferred to the country, and when we find a suitable partner or buyer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e792	I thank you for your answer. Let me just underline that I remember very well what I both said and meant in the big debate about this a while ago. I would also like to stress that the Right does not believe that this should not be done on a commercial basis. We also don't want to have any restrictions on companies, even if they're owned by the state. What is my question in this context is that I see that there must be an inconvenient situation – it is possible that it is only I who see it, that the Council of State does not feel it – that the Council of State has spoken warmly about these projects in the districts, while now it is seen that there is a problem for the state company, which goes into the same area of competition. Does the Council of State think that there is equal competition here? Does he see any problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e801	What we definitely have to say is that it is not that Entra invests for the state's money. Entra is a wholly-commercial company, which is required to invest on the basis of returns and which must make its investments on the basis of commercial considerations. In this sense, there is equivalent competition between the activities of Entra and those of other actors. On the other hand, they may not do the same thing, because there are different types of data capacity needed. Some servers – as far as I understand – need to be close to the customer, have fast response time and perhaps also availability to the hardware that is stored, while others may have a long-term storage horizon when there are large amounts of data to be stored. It was e.g. this I talked to Facebook and Google about when I was in the United States last November, about a great need for data storage. Facebook chose Finland, in close competition with district alternatives in Norway. So I have a good hope that we can be competitive in such an arena in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e808	Whether it's the state's money or not can be discussed. I think that in the districts and around the Kingdom, what is considered to be the whole time of the state is not only the company's money, but also the owners' money, that is. State. But it's going to be a little more academic discussion. Back to my introductory question, where the Council of State answers that he thinks he has a good time to do something about Entra and a possible sale down. There's already been a considerable amount of time. The government came to the Storting to get a sales authorisation. Although the Council of State has a good time, it might be interesting to hear here in the Questionnaire whether there is any progress, some progress, in the work that he was here asking for permission.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e815	That's it. We have a good drive on this. We're going through the building mass to see if there's any construction that stayed with Entra when it was separated, or that's in Entra's property now, as more natural, for example. had belonged to State Building, have a cleaning up in it, before Entra, if necessary, was sold, merged or had another owner's seat. But this also depends on the price, on a good customer. Because we – as I say – have good time and Entra gives good returns, we don't have to rush. We'll try to get the most out of this, for the benefit of the community. For these data centres, it doesn't matter, because the business framework around this – for Entra as for private – will be the same as it is now. The only difference is – and I can assure you that we have a close dialogue with Entra on these issues – to try to communicate also the views of the district councils, so that Entra is aware of it and takes it into its work. We support these district initiatives, and it is not our goal that Entra should make investments that compete with them, but it is the seventh and last Entra decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e826	This question, from the representative Ingjerd Schou to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e829	‘At an open meeting of the Polytechnic Association on 7 March 2012, the Council of State expressed the wish that the funds of the forthcoming national transport plan should have a ‘at least as good geographical distribution’ as the current one. What does the Council of State add to the concept of ‘at least equal geographical distribution’?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e836	When the Minister of Transport pointed out that the next national transport plan should have at least as good a regional distribution as the current one, it was because she wanted to point out two factors: Firstly, she would stress that the current plan has a good geographical distribution. One of the main objectives of this government's transport policy is to improve accessibility and reduce distance costs across the country, so that we can strengthen the competitiveness of business and help maintain the main features of the housing pattern. With that promise and the profile we have in this transport plan, I believe we are on the right track. The second – and perhaps the most important point – was that the Minister of Transport will point out that the good run we have started in this direction, we will continue. It also means that the next national transport plan should have a good geographical distribution of funds, at least as in the current plan. This, of course, does not mean that the funds need to be distributed in exactly the same way as last time, but that means that we need to have a clear regional perspective when we create the plan, a perspective that best meets the challenges we will face in the future across the country. This should be a national transport plan. Then we have to make sure that we distribute the funds so that we enable people to use the whole country. We're going to use the funds so that people can live and work wherever they want. In practice, this means that we will pursue a differentiated transport policy. This means that public transport must do much of the job in cities, while the main strategy is to get on the road in other parts of the country. Furthermore, it means that we need to assess measures and investments that can help to increase the share of these transports by rail or by sea. This will focus the Minister for Transport on the further work on the technical advice we have now received from the transport modes, as a basis for the further political process. As you know, the government will present the main message on the National Transport Plan 2014–2023 next spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e850	Thank you for the Minister of Agriculture's response to the challenge of the Minister of Transport. Now it's the way that geography plays a major role in the national transport plan, and what I hear from the Council of State answers, is that the current plan is all right, and the other thing that's important is that you're happy with the race that's set in the national transport plan. However, both in terms of the transport corridors, our regions, the counties and the municipalities, the geographical distribution of funds is of great importance for the development of a good transport network, and especially for the future. In this way, the definition of the concept of good distribution is very relevant to be further elucidated beyond what the Council of State now did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e857	What I understand is the representative Schou is looking for in this discussion, is whether there may be opportunities for changes in the distribution that we have in the existing plan, and that is, of course, possible. It will be, as the representative also stresses, depending on the recordings we have now received from the planning sessions, depending on the input from the county councils – that is, all actors involved with the Ministry of Transport in the work ahead of the government conclusions. A final breakdown has not been established. It has been arranged for us to have a good geographical distribution, to meet the major challenges that exist. The challenges may change, including, inter alia: in the light of actions carried out during a period. So there will be a political process to find the solutions that meet the needs of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e864	Thank you for your answer. The situation now is that we can travel from city to city in this country both morning and afternoon and drive in line, and very many of the cities – especially the big cities – are also choked by traffic. What I'm looking for is that the government's ability to have a clear priority, so that we don't get a clumsy expansion of everything without a priority. Having a vague plan with clumsy expansions in a situation where cities are suffocating is not sustainable for the future. If the government is to give in both bag and bag in the meaning of both district and city, both Utsira and Bergen, it is clear that it requires much more money, but also a willingness to create new forms of funding. Then I would like to ask: For a central party council, what is a ‘good geographical distribution’?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e873	I also believe central party councils see that there are changes in society, that we have new challenges with population change and with population growth in different parts of the country, and that we need to strengthen, for example. public transport in the densely populated areas and strengthening the road standard and the possibility of emergence in these areas in order to avoid cows. It is also at the bottom of a central party council. At the same time, we are very concerned about finding balanced solutions to the challenges we face in many districts. Let me underline that in many Western districts and along the coast northwards, there is a tremendous value creation, among other things. in relation to the oil industry and in relation to salmon production and the aquaculture industry, which also face major challenges in finding good transport solutions for their need to get products out of the country. I think we should find good, balanced solutions to this and meet the different needs that come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e937	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e945	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘The 2011 fire statistics on the number of poultry fires are tragic. There was a new record, and most of it burned in Hedmark and Uppland together over 25 pst. of the total number of fires in the country. This is a theme that has been addressed in the earlier Questionnaire, promising measures to reduce the number of fires and hence animal tragedy and material damage. What has the Council of State done since there has been a deterioration rather than an improvement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e954	Fire in animal rooms leads to suffering for many animals, and this is not least an accident for the owners. I agree with Mr Bredvold that it is sad to hear about such matters. Despite the fact that a number of measures have been taken, there were unfortunately record fires in operating buildings in 2011. In particular, the number of fires in pig cages and gardens has increased. According to the Agricultural Fire Protection Committee, electrical installations and equipment account for about two thirds of the fires in agricultural buildings. Therefore, in order to prevent fires in livestock rooms, it is important that animal owners ensure that such installations are regularly examined and maintained. It is also very important that individual farmers and livestock owners keep order in and around livestock rooms through the removal of easily combustible objects. Animal welfare legislation has a number of building requirements to help prevent fires and the spread of fires to animal spaces. Fire alarm systems are required when the tier exceeds a certain size. There shall also be the necessary escape routes and fire-fighting equipment in buildings with domestic animals. Regulations under the Law on Planning and Building also contain a number of requirements for livestock construction, including: fire cell restriction requirements. Both the Food Authority and the Fire Department oversee prevention requirements in livestock buildings. In several places in Norway, cooperation on the supervision of food law, fire services and electrical supervision has been initiated. Fire in an operational building can quickly develop into a disaster for both animals and humans. It may be difficult or almost impossible to evacuate panicked animals. Fire safety and prevention are therefore crucial and important in the future. In 2009, I took the initiative of setting up a working group to carry out a broad review of the health, environment and safety of agriculture. A National Agricultural HMS Cooperation Forum was established in the autumn of 2010 under my management. Agricultural fires are one of the main discussion and reporting themes of the Forum, where the Agricultural Fire Protection Committee has also been represented. The Agriculture Fire Protection Committee has produced a lot of guidance material on fire prevention in operational buildings. They also provide training for the prevention and extinguishment of fires in collaboration with local fire services and an insurance company for students in the field of natural use in secondary schools. This year, the Fire Protection Committee of Agriculture will focus on measures to reduce the number of failures in new electrical installations, to detect flammable faults in old electrical installations and to raise awareness of risk areas and to strengthen self-control and maintenance. However, although the number of fires in livestock buildings has increased, previously established measures have been effective. A user survey conducted by the Agriculture Fire Protection Committee has shown that the use of fire alarm systems in agriculture has led to 85 pst. all fires were extinguished before major damage occurred. Where fire alarm systems were installed, the risk of total damage was halved. Mutuals have made calculations that suggest that this corresponds to reduced losses of 2 billion. kr, 15000 bufe and 30000 poultry and probably also human life. I look very seriously at the regrettable developments in this area. I will continue to follow the situation closely, and I will contribute to a follow-up within the framework of the opportunities available to me and the department I run.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e980	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which so far did not give me so many positive signals. It is a very negative development. For example, in 2007, we had 122 fires, while in 2011 it was almost a triple, up to 304. We've never had so many fires before, while we've never had fewer farmers. We've never had so few farms, and we've never had so few farms with animals. Nevertheless, fire statistics are increasing somewhat so badly. I also see that the Council of State is sorry for the development. Even if you work on this, my question becomes: Does the government and the government work in the wrong direction when the number of fires increases as much as they do? It doesn't seem like the measures that the minister says you're working with do seem to work. And that's why my question is, Do you work in the wrong direction? Do you work with wrong things?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e989	I want to confirm that in 2011 304 fires were registered in operating buildings, and then there are fires with a replacement payment of more than NOK 50000. In the years 2006-2010, there were an average of 165 fires in operational buildings, which was 122 in the year that the representative Bredvold mentioned, which was the lowest. It's very regrettable that the number has gone up. We are working on this matter, and through the HMS work – the HMS committee that I mentioned in my previous post – we have focused on how we can work to prevent fires, because it is prevention that must be the strategy. Then it is important to check electrical installations, control new power plants, not least the control of old power plants, and also to focus on the need for individual users to have order and cleanliness on their farms in order to help reduce the problems. It is therefore the animal owner, the farmer, who has the primary responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e996	There is no doubt that it is the individual farm and the individual animal owner who has the primary responsibility, but I think we need more controls. But what I want to address in the last question is the Law on Planning and Building. It gives special advantages to those who are engaged in agriculture. It says, among other things: in the Planning and Building Act, that general operational buildings are treated according to Section 20-2 of the Act and can be ‘managed by the action holder’. For up to 1 000 m2, individual farmers may be action holders, whereas for a normal person, such as: shall build a garage of more than 70 m2 and shall be subject to completely different rules. Then the question is, does agriculture have any special advantages that might not be so good? I know that the Center Party is very much for these special advantages, but it might be that buildings are not being built as safe as they really should be. This need to be particularly important with controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e1011	As I tried to finish my previous post, it is the animal owner who is responsible for fire safety and prevention in his own business. It's the most important thing. As regards the question from the representative of Bredvold, whether there are any specific advantages for the agricultural industry in this regard, I would like to stress that this matter has been examined in the Stortinget earlier. Through the treatment in the Stortinget, changes have been made to the Law on Planning and Building with regard to the boundaries of how construction is to be covered by the legislation or not. What we are working on in the framework of the legislation that the Stortinget has laid down is to have a greater focus on electrical supervision, cooperation between the Food Authority, the Fire Service and the Electricity Authority, in order to focus on the prevention work that needs to be done in both old and new operating buildings. We have to tackle the challenges where they lie. This goes on both the new and the old buildings, and I think we are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e1018	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-21.ana.ud1599e1031	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
