ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e42	Honourable co-representatives! Former P. J. Husbø Depositor is dead, almost 84 years old. He represented Sogn and Fjordane Christian People's Party on the Stortinget – first as alternate representative from 1973 to 1977 and then as permanent representative from 1977 to 1985. Before he was elected to the Stortinget, he represented the Christian People's Party for two periods in the Leikanger Municipal Government and was also an alternate to the County Council. Per J. Husbø grew up in Leikanger in Sogn. He was a trained civil agronomist from the Agricultural School with horticulture as a subject. He had studies in both England, the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark in fruit cultivation and horticulture. His civil career was in agriculture and agricultural research. Most of the professional career, both before and after the staging work, he had at the Statens Research Station for Fruit Breeding at Njøs in Hermansverk. Here he worked as both a scientific assistant, a pilot, a researcher and first amanuensis. In addition, he has published a number of scientific productions related to fruit cultivation. Husbø has also held more positions within the bodies of agricultural research, including: as Chairman of the Council for Farming Experiments. With its background, it became natural that the primary industries became his main field of activity also as a magnificant representative. For the first time, he was on the farm committee at the time. In his second period he put in what was then called the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, where he was also the Vice-Chairman. In the Grand Duchy, he showed a general commitment to matters relating to district policy, in terms of both oil activities, road development and jobs, and he promoted the cause of the home state in many contexts. He was also a new Norwegian and was concerned about the language and promoting the case of the new Norwegian, among other things. through parallel editions of textbooks at school. In the 1985 elections, he chose to withdraw from national policy. He wanted to go back to work as a fruit researcher. After joining national politics, he also engaged in the local organizational work of the Christian People's Party and was for a period of time the local team leader in Leikanger. From 1989 to 1993, he was also the head of the control committee of the Norwegian Postsparebank. We remember Per J. Husbø for his work in the Storting and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e59	Mr Dagfinn Højbråten has requested to attend the Madrid meeting on Thursday 12 April as Chairman of the GAVI Vaccination Fund. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e77	Kjell Arvid Svendsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e91	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e105	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. The President will state that the Workers' Party has given 10 minutes of its speaking time to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e116	It is a pleasure for me to present the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on the major communication on agricultural and food policy. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation, so that we made good progress in the drafting process. The examination of the notification by the Committee has been extensive, with open consultation on 6 January, involving a large number of participants. There have also been many meetings, seminars and panel debates. It is also gratifying to note that there has been a great commitment to this matter around the country. The Communication deals with agriculture, forestry, reindeer farming, agri-food production, construction industries, knowledge, innovation and district policy. In short, the whole breadth and value chain of agricultural and food policy. The agricultural and food sectors include important and large industries that contribute to society by creating values and employment across the country. Agriculture, the food industry, forestry, the forestry industry and the reindeer industry had about 123,000 annual works in 2009 and are the largest value-producing chain in mainland Norway. The Committee considers it important to pursue a long-term policy to facilitate increased value creation throughout the coming years. The message is written with the international food and climate crisis as a backstop, and it is estimated that the world’s population will increase to over nine billion by 2050. Then it's important that we make use of our national resources, take care of the food and facilitate the production of the most agricultural products we need to produce here in the country. This communication has ambitious objectives, and it testifies to a government that will invest in Norwegian agriculture. The aim is to increase food production as the population grows in order to maintain the level of self-sufficiency at around the current level. It says about 20 pst. growth of 20 years. It is particularly important to emphasise that Norwegian resources, roughage and pasturage are important inputs. This is an important prerequisite for achieving agriculture across the country. We want to facilitate a varied usage structure, while facilitating different forms of cooperation, but the farmer himself has to choose how he wants to develop his use. There is an overall committee that is committed to improving industry’s profitability in the coming years and points out that it is important to consider different incentives to stimulate investment and optimise operations. Good investment schemes play a major role in the recruitment of farmers, increased food production and agriculture across the country. For government parties, this means that we will further develop income and welfare policies based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005. As rapporteur of the case, I wanted to facilitate that the message, and the processing of Storting, should gather as wide as possible. It is important for the stability of policies and therefore also for agriculture in the long term. However, in some important areas, there are clear dividing lines that are also important. I want to add that increasing food production as the message adds up to is a very ambitious goal. It is well in view of these objectives that the government parties and the right parties separate layers. I feel that the right parties do not have concrete objectives. They also promote major changes in agricultural policy by putting the key pillars of policy – import protection, market regulation, channelling policy and the agricultural agreement, what we can call the Norwegian food model – into play. It is with the mechanisms at the bottom that we want to develop an agricultural policy for the future. That policy is what the right parties will reject. These are arrangements that have led to the right to claim that we in Norway have a lucky hand with the channelling policy. Should we let go of that grip in politics, I'm afraid a lot goes wrong – especially in the districts. On behalf of the government parties, I refer to the proposal that has been distributed, which underlines the obligation to invest in the Norwegian food model further. It is also important that the government further develop target and performance management, as a follow-up to the National Audit Office’s study, while the government is clearly committed to achieving significant simplifications in several key areas of agricultural policy instruments. Less detail management will be central, and that's good. The main task of agriculture is to produce food. I'm glad that there's an overall committee that joins it. The food industry is a very important part of a complete value chain for food production. It is important to ensure value creation and profitability throughout this chain. Government Parties support a strong protection of imports. It may be the most important pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy, and we therefore need to use the space for action available within the framework of the WTO Agreement to achieve national agricultural objectives in a good way. In this area, there are dividing lines in the policy that I believe the right parties themselves will explain in their speeches. The fruit and vegetables sector has been given a lot of attention in this setting. In this area, too, the Committee received valuable input into the consultation process. This is an industry with significant development potential and it is an overall committee which considers it important that the use of existing instruments in this industry be further assessed. In the case of cereals and forage policy, government parties are engaged in measures that can improve the productivity of this production. Releasing the productivity requirements here means that our best areas are not optimally exploited, and that we are thus even more dependent on imports of both food and feed grain. I see that there is a rapid consequence of the agricultural policy of the right-wing party. Sámi reindeer management uses pastures in both mountains and outcrops and is an industry with a high potential for increased value creation. I will come back to that theme in a later article. Forests in growth are highlighted in the message both as value creators and in climate context. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that increasing wood use and increasing bioenergy deployment are key measures to achieve key food, energy and climate objectives. The Wood Based Innovation Programme has contributed to increased use of wood and increased profitability in the value chain. It is good that the government determines that sustainable forest management is good business policy, environmental policy and climate policy, and the Committee supports it. It is also important that the Bioenergy Programme under Innovation Norway and the Energy Fili Schemes be continued if the objectives of increasing the development and use of bioenergy are to be achieved. Rejuvenation in the forest is best achieved when it is established rapidly after peak and with the use of processed plant material. The construction of second generation seed crops will significantly increase value creation, volume production and carbon uptake in Norwegian forests. When the Storting is about to adopt agricultural policy for the coming years, the debate we are about to have is important. The announcement and the majority voting have a future perspective that I hope will bring together a broad majority. It's about moral obligations to use the country's own resources and secure agriculture across the country. First of all, it is about political will.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e165	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e168	The representative Haugen was in his post about a number of different things, including: the import protection system. I fully agree with the representative Haugen that it has been successful, so successful that even people from the government have had to go abroad to get the food they needed in the Easter. So at least it's been effective. My question to the representative Haugen is that in this communication, on 301 pages, which we are dealing with, there are no more than very many words. I cannot find the concrete measures. I would like to present a challenge to the representative Haugen: can the representative Haugen mention three concrete new measures in the communication that are now being discussed and that are being adopted today, which stop the decline of agriculture? Then we don't talk about the beautiful words that stand there, and the promises you give. Can the representative mention three concrete actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e177	In the case of three measures that will stop the decline of Norwegian agriculture: the government's agricultural policy will make it more profitable to invest in agriculture, will ensure incentives for investment, will improve recruitment, will lead to more flexible management of the disaggregation problem, will reduce the edge of the no partial law. These are a number of measures that will lead to a positive development for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e182	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his well-managed work in the Committee. We have met in several debates, and in several debates the representative has been repeated and even quoted as having four finance ministers to deal with, but that the message would not look like it did when the discussion was over. The treatment is now complete, and the only change from the notification to the setting is new formulations of grazing pussage; the rest is untouched. Where was it of the change vision, which was repeatedly expressed at the start of the treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e187	Firstly, we have a very good and offensive agricultural message ahead of us. Secondly, we have supported the agricultural notification and improved it through the comments we have written. Thirdly, we have made it clear – and the Committee has agreed on a proposal from the rapporteur – that different incentives should be considered in order to improve investment opportunities in agriculture. The matter of farrowing was a small point in that context. We have also included – and got a joint committee to support – an industry that was not mentioned in the notification. So there are several measures here that have ensured quality and made a good message even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e194	The right has worked long and well with this agricultural message in connection with the debate we have here today. We have also made our own farm report, which outlines a number of alternative solutions and some of the problems we see today's agriculture have. Among other things, we have said that it would be valuable for us to go in and look at an alternative market regulator, a neutral body, which can take on the task of market regulation in relation to agriculture. Then we register that we are being attacked by the Workers' Party. They say that when the Right now looks at a neutral market regulator, it will upset agriculture, and it will frustrate the cooperative system in agriculture. Now the cooperative arrangement is the farmers' way of organizing their sales chain, and it is not always possible for me to see the relationship between getting a neutral market regulator, and that it will frustrate the cooperative system. So my question is whether Haugen can tell me about this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e203	Norwegian farmers were early in organizing the business so that they got better control of the sale of their products. Here, there has been a positive trend from the 1930s, at least. When we have asked more specifically what is at stake in the agricultural policy of the Right in terms of market regulation, I think it has been thrown forward as an idea that is very little concrete. Otherwise, there are a number of the proposals that the Right launches, which we believe as a whole will be destructive to agriculture, especially for rural agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e210	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e214	First, I would like to make a small comment to the representative, Haugen, who was asked about three concrete actions that have been included in the communication. He mentioned some measures, but when you go to the proposal section, I can't see these measures there. So here's a lot of talk and little action. The Progress Party wishes to welcome the long-attached notification. As a country with long food and agricultural traditions, food and agricultural policies will be a topic of great importance to our society. All Norwegians have a relationship with the food on the plate – it is salmon from Hitra, wild sauce from Austevoll, milk from Røros or peas from Ringerijke. At the same time, we have become more and more accustomed to new tastes from abroad, and our relationship with food and agriculture is constantly changing. Societal change requires a new and better agricultural policy. I would like to underline the strong link between agriculture and traditional civil values, such as respect for private property rights, freedom to conduct business, and protection of culture and nature. The free and independent farmer has helped lay the foundation for the nation we know today as Norway. The Progress Party refers to the strong position that Norwegian farmers have traditionally had in Norwegian society. The peasantry rebelled several times during the Danish era when the king in Copenhagen issued more taxes and taxes. The independent Norwegian farmer has wanted as much intervention as possible and as much freedom as possible. These are values that are only compatible with a civil society view. On the basis of this historical background, the Progress Party will stress that the agricultural message Welcome to the table deals with a matter area of long and proud traditions. It is therefore important that the ambitions and objectives of the Communication are anchored in an understanding of the important position of farmers in the Norwegian community. It is therefore important to use new tools to ensure that the new farmers who want to enter the profession experience a simpler everyday life and want to continue their efforts. The development of our policy for Norwegian farmers is based on some basic values in Norwegian society, which personal freedom and quality of life to pay off working and investing in Norwegian agriculture for policy instruments to be targeted and realistic; The efforts of individuals in everyday life have shaped the Norwegian society into one of the world's best countries to live in. Therefore, the possibilities for individual farmers to develop their farm and operations are crucial. The Advance Party wants a yes-culture from the authorities. A significant quality of life in the farming profession is precisely freedom in its own everyday life, a freedom which must be extended by repatriation of ownership and municipal autonomy. I believe that the challenges of Norwegian agriculture are great – not least on many farmers that the difference between real life and reality described by public authorities is quite great. Reconciliation and new solutions are – and must be – necessary. Support schemes must be developed in such a way that efficient operation provides profitability. Farming shall be profitable, even when combined with other occupations — as is the everyday life of the majority of Norwegian farmers. The regulatory framework must end with considerable limitations. Those who want to be full-time farmers and grow must have more opportunities and fewer regulations. The government has said that every abandoned use is a personal defeat. But the number of Norwegian farmers is falling, and there are now fewer than 50,000 registered farms. The income of the peasant family has now been built up in such a way that only 40 pst. revenue from conventional agriculture, according to NILF figures. It will be absolutely essential that the official reality description of Norwegian agriculture actually matches the realities. With blindfolds, it is difficult to develop a good policy, and I would therefore like to stress that agricultural policy should be realistic in relation to the practitioners. The government of Stoltenberg has now been in power for almost eight years, and I find it strange that the government often criticises the agricultural policy of other parties, but does not deliver on its own promises of agriculture throughout the country. I refer to the question to the representative Haugen instead. The Riksrevision has concluded that there is an increasing concentration of agricultural holdings in Rogaland, in the east and in the north of Trøndelag, and that some forms of production are not sufficiently attractive to ensure long-term recruitment. It is therefore particularly important that agricultural policy and the agricultural bureaucrats should look at the farmer who is in the profession and not look blindly at whether or not a property is registered as an agricultural property in public registers. We can go in and look at the odel law. I would like to take an example – which has been up lately – of how the law of nobility can turn out: On one farm in the municipality of Ringerijke, no part was formally transferred from one person to another. Prior to this, there had been a process between the seller and the purchaser for several years. In September, prior to the sale, the seller's daughter was dismissed by Ringerijk's head office. Two weeks after the transfer, there is a new enquiry via the broker that the seller wants to close the sale and will not sell. This happens after the new owners have opened and started to clean up. After a while they are told that the seller wants the number back, and you are using the right to get the property back. This shows that there is an unforeseeable policy, which is more concerned with the law than with the use of profitable and productive food production. It is not surprising that three farms are set aside each day, amounting to 21 a week. In fact, Sundays are also in use when it comes to the abandonment of agriculture in Norway today. Food production from land and sea, as part of a sustainable production and value chain, is central to our self-sufficiency and food security. In a communication on food policy, it is important to stress that our self-sufficiency in seafood is an essential element of the debate on the level of national self-sufficiency security. Exports of farmed fish and white fish alone represent 38 million meals per day. There is a mutual dependence between agricultural commodity production for food and the processing industry, and the Norwegian food industry must therefore have good framework conditions, not least in relation to international competition. It is important to be aware that the desire of the agricultural industry to increase customs protection of its own activities has been called into question. Of course, on the one hand it protects against imports and will be used to increase prices to Norwegian consumers, but on the other hand it also increases the commodity price difference between Norway and the world around us, so that imports of processed raw materials and finished products at low customs duties will continue to increase, while at the same time border trade will increase when customs protection is introduced at increased consumer prices. This can in the long term contribute to greater imports and border trade, a lower production based on Norwegian resources and a weakened food industry, i.e. a development contrary to government objectives in the notification. I believe that this creates a political risk for the food industry, through both the price write-down system through the RAC system and the milk price balancing system. In addition, the use of increased customs protection over time presents a challenging challenge in relation to future adjustments to trade agreements in the EEA/WTO area and contributes to the development of non-competitive production in Norway. We would therefore encourage caution in exploiting the so-called action space in import protection. I record that the food and drink industry is experiencing an increasingly tough competition from large international food and drink producers. The Progress Party believes that, in relation to the goal of food safety, the production of enough food is central, while at the same time we are concerned that the costs of food chains are not excessively run in the weather compared to our neighbouring countries through a ‘max-norse-density trend’ at all stages. It should not be the case that national cereal production is so occupied with the use of such powerful instruments to increase it that the best is the enemy. The benefits and costs of increased cereal production need to be balanced with an appropriate focus on roughage-intensive productions in the best agricultural areas as well. It is important in terms of agronomic conditions, environmental challenges and the need for the goodwill created for the Norwegian agricultural and food industries. The most important thing is that the production of primary products for Norwegian food products starts as early as practicable in the production chain, and within economic frameworks that help to prevent the price gap against our neighbouring countries from increasing. I also record that the government has investigated a power ratio in the food value chain without taking into account the role and influence of the agricultural sector in a value chain so dependent on public budget support. I have also recorded that a high-level group in the EU dealt with exactly the same problem between suppliers and last-stage sales, and that the best and desired solution would be that the parties themselves came up with agreed actions without politicians regulating business relations between groups of traders in specific industries, as we have in Norway. It is a wise approach that should first have been proposed also by the red-green government rather than regulating agreements between traders. We record the great professional disagreement in the wake of the Matkede Committee's report. For example, the Competition Authority has presented criticism in its consultation opinion to the Matkette Committee report of 30 November 2011. Competition surveillance considered that the exceptional level of fees and costs and the protection of imports of agricultural products were the essential explanations of the situation in the food industry. The protection of imports serves as a protection against foreign competition for parts of the food industry and provides a high level of market concentration in a number of supply markets. These are likely reasons for a high price level and a limited range in shops. Competition surveillance has found that the margins of the Norwegian food chains are lower than in both Sweden and the United Kingdom. This is the case when comparing both the average industry margin and the margin of the largest chains in each of the countries. The party making progress is of the opinion that the price level of food in Norway is not only due to higher profits from Norwegian food chains. The message does not give a complete picture of the value chain in the Norwegian food industry. Therefore, if a new investigation is to be carried out, it is necessary that it takes account of absolutely all stages of the value chain and that it has a socio-economic approach to the issue. The Party is not engaged in the ownership of the processing undertakings as long as there is good and effective competition which provides consumers with the best products and a good choice of competitive prices. If the producer finds it rational and profitable to own the production undertakings together, this is positive. We need some regulation in the market balance in both the meat and milk sectors, but we want to show that market regulation, as it is organised today, is distorting competition for the operators in the processing sector by allowing it to interact. I also note that in some agricultural sectors, a great many actors have chosen to stand outside the cooperative, but of course they are as full-fledged farmers as those in the cooperative, and that their needs should also be met in the same way as the others in market regulation. Today’s arrangement provides market transparency for individual actors different from that of others by acting both as a commercial operator and regulator. This means, among other things: the board of major cooperatives, which is also commercially responsible for the results, has a unique market balance and at the same time has the power to choose a regulatory strategy in time and strategic terms. This is the only place in Europe it works that way. It is important to stress that market regulation is a societal task, where the selection to carry out the mission must be based more on a cost-effective and competitively neutral position than on who is the owner of the company carrying out the mission. Today’s arrangements give rise to a unique competitive environment between market players and thus also a significant risk of distortion of competition, which will ultimately go beyond prices and offers to consumers. I would like to stress that one does not want what is today a private scheme to be replaced by a public scheme, but that one wants the exclusive market transparency of private monopolies to cease. The farmers pay for this today via the turnover tax. It would be natural for it to be removed and the scheme to be financed in another way. It is important that market regulation is implemented by an independent regulator, and we believe that an independent selection should be set up in the first instance to review the different mechanisms, their financing and functions and to propose a regulatory regime, where market players can participate, but where everyone receives the same market information at the same time. These are proposals presented by the Progress Party, which we hope will be supported when they are discussed in the Committee. The Progress Party believes that the target of 15 pst. use of Norwegian land and 15 pst. the total turnover in organic production in eight years' time is not compatible with the objective of sustainable agricultural food production. This is a good example of unrealistic goals without concrete instruments. It should also be aware that organic production occupies more land – it has been claimed to be 20-25 pst. more area than in the case of conventional production. The status of organic production is now 5 pst. area and 1 pst. placing on the market, which clearly demonstrates that the objectives are unrealistic and in clear conflict with the objectives of this Communication on increased self-sufficiency and increased overall production. I trust conventional food production. Organic farming is a niche product which must, of course, be available to consumers who want it, but the use of resources for both land and economic subsidies must be seen in an overall agricultural perspective. It is alarming that the government is working on using public procurement as an instrument to achieve the objectives of organic production by making public calls for tenders. I would strongly warn against such a practice, which will send a signal to the population that normal Norwegian agricultural production almost lacks authority approval as healthy and safe food. The Party notes that the problem of spreading areas in livestock farming is a challenge, especially in areas where there is too little agricultural land. It is a fact that some EU countries have come further into action to improve the environment. We believe that priority should be given to bioenergy and that this should be financed through the ENOVA SF. There is also a problem in agriculture that businesses/co-operatives are widespread, especially in milk production that operates under the common quota. However, today's scheme has a limitation where there are only five participants who can participate in the same co-operation. It is time to make different farm operational solutions more attractive, including among others. joint ventures, cooperatives or joint ventures. In this context, the number of participants in joint ventures should be removed as soon as possible. Food surveillance is responsible for the supervision of animal welfare for both farmed and family and sport animals. Responsibility also includes both fish and terrestrial animals. Animal welfare has important ethical aspects. At the same time, animal welfare is an important element of industry productivity. The Progress Party considers that the Food Authority has an active follow-up to animal welfare in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act of 2009. The focus of food surveillance is on further developing cooperation with other public actors, and emphasis is placed on the duty of everyone to report on the abuse and serious misconduct of animals. We demand and expect the Food Safety Authority to intensify its work in the field of animal husbandry and to a greater extent than at present carry out unannounced supervision. In recent times, we have had some unfortunate incidents, such as: in Troms, which seems not to be over and seems to escalate, without us seeing that the Food Authority's system has worked. This shows that it may be time to go in and see if there may be other ways to drive animal welfare in this country, perhaps in line with other European countries. The Progress Party also welcomes the work of non-governmental organisations in the field of animal welfare, for example. The Animal Protection Alliance and SPCA. According to the Central Statistical Office, Norway has a trade leakage to Sweden, which only amounted to 11.5 billion in 2011. kr, about half of which can be related to the purchase of food. This represents a loss of nearly 10 000 jobs in the Norwegian food industry, goods and retail trade. In the 2012 alternative state budget of the Progress Party, we promoted a separate border trade package to reduce the trade leakage and make it more attractive to demand goods and services in Norway. Unfortunately, it was dismayed. It's just a pity when you see that the border trade is now growing dramatically. We see that there are record records on records in all border trades throughout the country in Easter. The Nordics have invaded Sweden. This is a major problem for Norwegian industry. We also register, among other things: that we now have an agricultural minister who has seen that it is cheaper to travel to Sweden to trade and get cheaper food and cheaper other things. We also see that he has come with dairy farmers, who have also given up Norwegian agriculture. Here it is important not to look after ourselves in the way that we cross the border, but rather to ensure that we are able to be competitive and do it so that we Norwegians trade the food you have in Norway and keep the jobs within the borders of Norway. The Progress Party is also critical that the government of Stoltenberg II in the agricultural and food notification submitted did not clarify the future of the fur industry in Norway. This helps to create uncertainty in the industry, with the consequence that, among other things. financial institutions are held back from providing loans for upgrades and initial investments in industry. We will maintain the fur industry as our own industry and expect the government to present a separate notification during 2012 clarifying the future framework conditions for fur industry. I also record that in recent years the fur industry has done a significant job of self-control and animal welfare measures, which seem to have produced good results for the industry. Then I think we should get a message during this period. I have asked the Council of State Breck that question from this pulpit up to several times whether he can guarantee that the notification of fur nutrition will come in this period, but it does not. This is again proof that the Senterpartiet has no influence on agricultural policy in the Stortinget. We just see by reading the nations in the last few days that you have a rebellion here. We also see that there is a proposal on the table from one of the representatives of the Central Party that goes across what the government is doing. Here's the inner rift probably bigger than the common people on the outside see. So it's going to be exciting to see when it's going to vote – if it comes. I would like to put forward the proposals of the Progress Party, both those that we have with others and those that we have alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e335	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has addressed the proposals Nos.1 to 11. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e340	The entry for the representative of the Progress Party was basically in familiar style and, to some extent, also with known content. The ability of individual farmers to develop operations is crucial, said the representative, Mr. Treldal, in his statement. In order to achieve this, the Progress Party is less – less regulation, less customs protection and much less transfers. A whole I have not registered that there are so many who want this recipe of farmers and operators in the country. Can the representative, Mr Tåldal, who often complains about high costs and tough conditions of competition for business operators in this country, explain how he believes that his policy could lead to a living agriculture throughout the country? Is this freedom for the farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e349	The policy of the Progress Party takes care of the individual's opportunities. The representative of the Workers' Party, who is also a fisherman, should perhaps raise agricultural policy against the way fisheries are managed. Fishing today is not governed by subsidies, all of which are subsidised and regulated down to the smallest detail. The problem today in Norwegian agriculture is that farmers who want more production will have no opportunity, and thus no wages will be paid. What is done with the proposal and policy of the representative is a reduction. Three farms are laid down every day, 21 a week, and even on Sundays. The only way the representative from the Workers' Party accepts Sunday open shops is when they are closed on Sundays. That's okay with you. But it's not okay for people to trade in groceries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e356	The progress party will cut 7 billion. kr in transfers to agriculture. At the same time, they will weaken customs protection in sum, which will lead to a corresponding reduction in the incomes of agriculture — a dramatic cut in the incomes of individual farmers or dramatic closures of agriculture. My question is: does the Progress Party expect them to get through to this policy in any government negotiations with the current opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e361	If the representative Holmelid had read all the comments that have been written, and read the comments that the Right and Advance Party have together, sometimes also together with the Christian People's Party, he had seen that if there is a change of government, it becomes the majority to do something about the market regulator and to do something to release the farmer and let the farmer be self-employed, let the farmer produce the milk he can, let the farmer produce that meat you need – so we don't have to have meat shortages, so we don't go to Sweden, so we don't have to have a rib crisis, so we don't have to have a butter crisis. All this is the fault of the representative Holmelid. It is their misguided policy that requires consumers to flee the country today in order to have food.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e366	The Progress Party agrees that Norway needs to exploit its resources and facilitate the production of the agricultural products it requires to produce nationally. At the same time, the Progress Party does not support the objective of agriculture across the country. By giving priority to the major uses and to the best areas desired by the Party of Progress, as well as to the severe deterioration of import protection and the reduction of transfers to agriculture, agriculture in North Norway, the West and the Internal East will be severely weakened. Does this mean that the Progress Party does not consider these areas to have any resources that are important for Norwegian food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e373	Unlike the Center Party, we want to have agriculture all over the country, and we actually want it to be up to those who live around the country, whether you want to do agriculture, or what you want to do. But with the Lange Nordahl policy, you isolate the people around, where they're going to be allowed to do it. Where you can produce more milk, you can't produce more milk, where you can produce more meat, you're not allowed to produce meat. What the representative for Lange Nordahl stands for is a policy that the Soviet Union has now actually abandoned. They don't have it anymore. Today, in fact, there are only two nations in the world that pursue such a policy of regulation as we do, and that is among other things. North Korea. But North Korea does it because they lack food -- that's the only difference. So with our policies it's going to be a thriving life, it's going to be a thriving business, it's going to be tourism, and it's going to be a living Norway. But unfortunately, if the Center Party stays in government, the districts are transferred, and everything moves into the cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e378	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e381	Norwegian agriculture is historically linked to traditional bourgeois core values such as respect for property rights and the right to exploit its own property. The country of Norway has been an important part of the historical foundation of the emerging society, and not least a contributor to the modern welfare society. It is these values that are also the basis for the statements, comments and proposals we have in connection with the agricultural communication. I'm not going to go into characterizing the message submitted by the government. That's what a lot of people have done, and they've done it in a strong way. They have talked about a dividing line for Norwegian agriculture, called it a time of destiny, and have said that development needs to be different in the coming years. But it's probably here as in many other cases that it's the critical, strong voices that get best heard, because that's how much is good in Norwegian agriculture. Productivity is high, products are good, there is profitability, there is progress, and you want investment. Surveys show that many people want to live in rural areas and work in agriculture. It is therefore a significant potential for increased value creation, for increased profitability and for increased production based on the resources available to us. Nor is it the case that there is a complete disagreement between the government parties and the Right on the road further. On the contrary, in some central notes you stand together. But we have taken on board the criticism of too many objectives and cross-cutting instruments contained in agricultural policy. That is why, in our alternative, we have underlined a main objective, namely increased profitable production, and we believe that too many objectives that are not pursued by targeted instruments create worse conditions than necessary for the active farmer, whether he operates small or large, whether he operates here or there. Pursuing the use of tools through a clearer production profile is important for increased profitability, and improved conditions for the active farmer are a key to our alternative. That is why we believe that budget support needs to be assessed in order to look it up towards increased production, better profitability. Is the structure of grants working properly? Is there something that should change? Do allowances and concession limits for both single use and joint operations have an appropriate effect? Should they be removed, should they be changed? I believe that the agricultural industry both in the central and in the districts needs more flexibility when the active, creative and innovative farmer is going to do his business in the future, and we are talking about ten years to come. This flexibility is, of course, a pre-missive. If we get a profitable and viable agriculture, we also get an increasing degree of production, and we get a better self-sufficiency. But in the self-sufficiency discussion, I think more factors than agricultural production should be involved. Seafood resources are important for Norway, and I believe that the debate on imported inputs is also a more theoretically designed discussion – for example. power-feed production. So I think that in order to increase production and increase profitability, it is in agriculture that, in all other industries, investment is important in order to improve productivity and efficiency. Increased profitability is at the heart of improving the ability to invest, but also fiscal measures are essential in this context. We have proposed several measures in our budgets and in connection with this communication. It's about property taxes, it's about inheritance taxes, it's about investment fund schemes to raise the ability to invest. These tax measures are concrete instruments that would give active farmers a belief that the objectives of increased production will be something other than just objectives, and I think that here is some of the link. It must be accompanied by concrete instruments to create confidence in the future if we are to make progress in creating optimism in agriculture. In such a context, the ownership structure of both agriculture and forestry is also important elements for triggering the potential for increased profitability. At 40 pst. the area under operation is land under rent, is a talking example, which does not need to be elaborated. We therefore also propose in the suspension a number of deregulations on the property side that go on the ban on sharing in the law on soil, the abolition of price regulation on agricultural properties, housing obligations, restrictions on the stock market. I believe that this, together with our proposals on changed taxes on the sale of agricultural activities – i.e. from personal taxation to capital taxation – is also measures that will contribute to restructuring that can provide better agronomy, better returns, increased production and improved profitability. There is a mutual dependence between agricultural raw material production and the Norwegian food and drink industry, which is a significant industry. Here the import protection is central. Let me say right away that when the rapporteur says that the opposition parties, including the Right, will take away these posts on which Norwegian agriculture is built, the import protection, the market regulation and the agricultural agreement, then – and I have to repeat this once again – this is actually not right. We want the device in a different way. The protection of imports is central to Norwegian agriculture. I repeat, we don't want to remove it, it's a myth. But we have to deal with the competition we can't avoid. It is a fact that Norwegian agricultural products in shops face competition from, for example: imported processed low-tariff agricultural products. This is challenging, not only for the food industry, but also at the end of the farmers as a producer. The desire for an increasingly high level of customs protection and the use of the so-called action space is a two-edged sword that can ultimately turn back on production. We don't want to. On the contrary, we want to look at transitions that make us rusty for the changes that we know will come within a ten-year period, through trade agreements and through WTO agreements. We should prepare for that, and we should prepare for that competitive situation. If the market regulation system has been written and said a lot. We want a more independent system in which operators are more equal in terms of market transparency and to be able to take decisions that affect competition. The cooperation we have has nothing against. We have nothing against market regulation. We think it's necessary, but that's the way it's arranged. The same applies to the agricultural agreement. Agriculture is going to be an industry dependent on budget support. The content of that budget support must be discussed at regular intervals, but we have made proposals in this position to look at this Institute in its present form. Does that serve purpose? Can we look at this in a more direct budgetary context? Soil protection is a central theme of agricultural policy and has also been the subject of the stranded negotiations between the government parties and the Christian People's Party. The right side stands with the Christian People's Party to describe the importance of taking care of the food soil. We have not gone into the legislative proposal for the Christian People's Party – not because we want to build up food soils, but because we want to have openings for important societal reasons, for example for infrastructure development. I think we're going to need that, so – even the Christian People's Party – you should really go into it when you look at a bill change proposal. Soil protection is important, but equally important – and I've been in it several times – is that the total earth we have is used correctly, and that we add up to structures that allow more soil to be used correctly; for more production and for more profitable production. This has to do with property structure, it has to do with changing the regulatory regime on production itself, and it has to do with stimulating operations. I understand the government parties' needs in this debate to put the search light on everything that you think is not going to work out the alternatives that come from the Right. As I see it in the press and otherwise, it appears as a very clear diversion from the internal problems that exist between the government parties in this context. I'm not going to go into them any more, they're going to be dealt with by themselves. I hesitate to address the suggestions we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e413	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e419	I think that the right has a unclear agricultural policy. It didn't become more clear now, but it is possible to get some clarity on it. The right is very unclear in the case of the market regulation scheme. The only thing they're very sure about is what the fleet itself said when they presented their alternative agricultural message. It was that TINE should be deprived of the role of market regulator. There they are very clear, but unclear on which model to apply. They are also very unclear as to how they wish the import protection to be used in the development of Norwegian food production. It could be a good idea to clarify the two areas. The last field – which is a repetition from the Right – is that they take with one hand and give with the other. Now they highlight giving, by means of tax relief, approximately. $800 million. kr. Not everything will benefit the industry, but every year they cut 2 billion. kr. in the State budget. How can it create more profitability and productivity in the agricultural industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e430	I use my minute to answer the questions about market regulation and import protection. I understand that with market regulation, this has been difficult for the government parties. We've put our finger on a problem. The government parties would not participate in the discussion on whether this is a problem or not. They answer us by saying, you have no arrangement, you have no complete arrangement. No, that's absolutely right. We have described a problem. We have described a way. We have proposed to Stortinget that the government should take a closer look at this and come up with proposals based on our problem description. As far as import protection is concerned, I don't think there are any of us who know how this will work in the future. We have clearly said that it is a pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy, but we must prepare for changes. If the representative of Terje Aasland wants me to describe those changes, I must be more prophet than I am.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e439	It won't be a good time now, because time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e442	It is interesting to observe the differences in the rhetoric of the representative of the Treldal and the representative of the Fleet, but we note that the direction of policy is the same. We have been involved in the market regulation system, which Right will not go into any particular detail in its alternative proposal, but I have a specific question: if one takes market regulation responsibility away from agricultural cooperation, who will take responsibility for any overproduction – as we have often had in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e449	We have said that we want an independent market body. Then we're attacked because such an organ can't do it and that and that. Of course it can. They're asking us how we set up this institute. The cooperation must of course be involved. Other actors shall be involved. We need to incorporate professionals that can do this. I see no problem in establishing a future market-oriented system that can balance it, can do what is right for agricultural production in Norway to function best. – And then I've taken in the ten seconds I was over the last, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e458	Then it's balance so far!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e461	The right has promoted its own agricultural message, and we have read it with interest. The Court’s Communication states that ‘remuneration must be given priority as the objective of the agricultural policy’. The question is how does the right define profitability? Is that, then, the corporate economic or socio-economic profitability concept of the Right that underpins its objective? What about family farming the longest up in the Gudbrand valley and farms along the coast of Troms? Will they ever be profitable after Right-wing assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e466	Employment is assessed in both socio-economic and personal economic terms. My impression, after traveling around the country and participating in agricultural debates, is that for the industry it is primarily about how it works for the individual – ‘what’s in it for me’ – and it is quite natural, because if it becomes profitable for the individual use and the individual farmer, it will also be socially profitable. It is not right that our alternatives and alternative messages are a reduction in rural agriculture, as the representative insinuates. We haven't said a single word about that. We have just said that we need to look at structures and grant schemes. Those who say that this goes beyond rural agriculture are the position, and that's their own claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e473	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e476	The UN Food Organisation, FAO, has stated that we must have a strong growth in world food production over the next decades. According to the prognosis, we have to produce 70 pst. more food in 2050 than today. At the same time, we are facing a climate crisis that can create droughts and reduce the potential to produce food on important parts of the globe. The scarcity of food leads to an increase in prices, and we know that it affects the poorest. Therefore, SV is very pleased that the agricultural and food reports have an ambitious goal of increasing food production in this country. It also provides the basis for an offensive agricultural policy, for the benefit of farmers, districts and consumers. But if we are to look at the global context, we also need to look at the net self-sufficiency rate, that is. self-sufficiency corrected for imports. Increasing food production based on imported feed does not contribute to the global food situation, and it can also lead to the centralisation of Norwegian agriculture. SV is therefore very pleased that the majority in the Committee will follow up the relationship between Norwegian-produced feed and imported feed. The majority of the Committee calls on the agricultural budget to monitor this situation. This will result in a stronger focus on sustainable Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources such as roughage and pasturage. The use of Norwegian resources as roughage and pasturage is important from a global perspective, but it is also important for rural agriculture and to ensure agriculture throughout the country. If we are to sustain rural farming, it is important to have support schemes that make it profitable to use roughage and pasturage. These national resources provide the basis for agriculture across the country. SV is pleased that the agricultural notification strengthens the rural profile of the agricultural policy. Norway is a diverse country with varying agricultural conditions. Therefore, it is positive that the message provides a larger regional space for action, so that the different regions can evolve according to their local potential. The message also suggests that there should be a stronger focus in areas where developments are particularly worrying. It applies to parts of Agder and Telemark – my home district, as I know well – that is to the coast and fjords of the West, and that applies to North Norway and the mountains of the Austland. It is important to bet on these areas, for example. to prevent land cultivation from leaving production. That's just how we can make sure that we don't reduce food production through less cultivated land. This is at least as important as the problem we have in relation to degradation, to which I come back. If we are to prevent set-aside, it is also important to take care of small and medium-sized farms, which are often combined. Many places are topography so that there is no room for economies of scale. It can easily generate a lot of transport. Therefore, it is important to have support schemes that make it interesting to operate small and medium-sized applications, so that we keep growing land in claim and keeping up the bustet in the districts. It is also important to prevent the construction of productive land in central areas. Today, we often see that soil protection has to give way to four- and six-field motorways, car-based purchasing centres and residential areas. The car, and the car-based malls, are entitled to pre-emption rights. I am very pleased that the message provides for strengthening soil protection through a more active use of the tools in the Planning and Building Act. This must be followed up by concrete measures. Organic production is important for agriculture. Organic farming contributes to increased knowledge, and it affects conventional agriculture, making it more environmentally friendly in the long term. Organic production methods contribute to the preservation of biological deficiency and to the development of alternatives to chemical spraying. Organic farming also contributes to an increase in the supply to consumers. SV is therefore pleased that the government will maintain the target of 15 pst. organic production. It is positive that the majority of the Committee points to public procurement as a means of achieving that objective. The food industry is inextricably linked to agriculture. Norwegian agriculture and food industry are the largest value-added chain in the country. Agriculture and the food industry are interdependent, and it is important to ensure competitiveness across the whole value chain. It is also important to have healthy business relationships in the value chain up to the consumer. Therefore, it is important to follow up the suggestions in the Mat Chain Selection settings. Food production is central to agricultural and food reporting. But we should not forget that agriculture produces more than food. Agriculture contributes to the production of the community's well-being and to the improvement of quality of life. It also helps to lay the foundations for other industries in the districts, such as tourism. In fact, without a commitment to agriculture, many rural areas would be depopulated. But there is reason to be concerned about the recruitment of agriculture. The most important measure to ensure recruitment is to create a good intake trend that can motivate young people to enter — and remain — the industry. But here, as in other industries, education is important. It is therefore important that we now look at the content of relevant further education. This applies not only to agriculture, but also to the food industry, which still has an increasing need for competence. Norwegian agriculture is based on three key elements: import protection, the agricultural agreement and a strong agricultural cooperation responsible for market regulation. All of these central blocks are under attack on the Right and the Progress Party. In addition, during the budgetary procedure, we have seen that they will cut the transfers dramatically – the 7 billion Progress Party. kr and Right with a few billion There is a clear distinction in Norwegian agricultural policy between the government on one side and the Right and the Progress Party on the other. The right-wing party will tear away the foundations of the Norwegian agricultural policy. The right hand side and the forward side have different dosages of their liberal measures, but the direction is the same. It will lead to a failure of income for the farmer and a fury of rural agriculture. The Christian People's Party has mostly fallen on the government side of agricultural policy. It is good, because it is important for agriculture that the most possible support for an active agricultural policy based on the three key pillars on which we build in the agricultural message. The Christian People's Party has turned on the big credit for the negotiations with the government party on agriculture. It's good for the farmers that the Christian People's Party shows strong commitment to agriculture, but that's the result of counting. The results were not as perceptive as the Christian People's Party put in government, and there is little reason to believe that they will be better in any new right-wing government after they have conducted negotiations with the representative of the Progress Party that we heard here today. It is only a red-green government that can deliver the agricultural policy that the Christian People's Party wants. They should take that on board, whether they like it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e510	Daily it is put down approx. three farms because of government policies, and farmers — especially full-time farmers — are getting fewer and fewer. If we look at the plenary today, nobody from SV is demonstrating against today's agricultural policy, which we are now discussing. That is, there is a collective government behind this, with the exception of some from the Center Party, as I understand it. But I ask the representative Holmelid from SV: Is he really satisfied with the development that is taking place in Norwegian agriculture? I stress that on this issue I do not ask what SV thinks about the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, but whether SV is satisfied with the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e519	It is quite alarming that the Progress Party is concerned about the closure of agricultural horticulture when one looks at what dramatic closures the policy of the Progress Party will lead to – by 7 billion. kr less in favour and 7-10 billion. kr less because of a reduction in import protection. I wonder if it's every single farmer who's going to get half the income say, or if it's half of the farmers that's going to be allowed to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e526	It could have been interesting to elaborate more on the inherited sin SV tried to put on the Christian People's Party, but I'm not going to do that. I'd like to talk a little bit about organic farming. We have a little dilemma in the Norwegian agricultural debate. We have problems explaining that organic farming is a bit better than Norwegian conventional agriculture. Not many weeks ago, the Council of State was quite clear that conventional agriculture had so good products that they were completely safe to eat, and they would be for a long time. Now we know that organic farming uses a quarter more land than conventional agriculture. So we know that SV, in a good sense of symbolism, is preparing for forced purchase from the public to get organic products, so it's going to look like this is something that's sustainable. How does the representative Holmelid think that this kind of symbolism policy – and this trend after organic farming – is in line with their concern about the world's food situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e537	Now it is the case that the Food Organisation of the United Nations, the FAO, has said that organic farming is important for international agricultural development. One of the reasons why we have an environmentally friendly agriculture in conventional agriculture today is, among other things: the challenge of organic farming. These include: So we get a lack of agriculture that means we don't become dependent on very similar varieties to the big international groups, like Monsanto, trying to monopolize the farmers into. So it's that, given the increase in land use, it's primarily for cereals. In very many other areas, such as fruit and berries and other things, increased land use is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e542	The representative, Holmelid, says that the Christian People's Party is turning on 'large-scale' agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party stands up for the farmers, the Christian People's Party stands up for the food industry, and therefore we want to reduce the income gap for the farmers. That's why the Christian People's Party wants to increase production, and therefore the Christian People's Party wants more stringent soil protection. This is not to turn on big cream, but it is to stand up for agriculture and for a Norwegian food industry. That's the result that the counter, said the representative Holmelid. When the Christian People's Party left the government table in 2005, we used over 1.7 pst. of the agricultural budget. Today's government uses under 1.4 pst. of the budget cake. That's the result that counts. What is it like to represent that result?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e549	First of all, I said not that the Christian People's Party played a major role in agricultural policy, but in its media game, and I stand by that. The second thing I want to say is that it's the result that's counting. That is the income base of the farmers. What is absolutely indisputable is that the income base of the peasants has been considerably better under the red-green government than under the government in which the Christian People's Party was put in. That's the result of counting for the farmers. That is the income base of the farmers, and it is, without comparison, significantly better under the current government than under the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e556	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e559	I am proud to be part of a party that is the biggest guarantor of strong and good agriculture in Norway. The centre party, together with the other government parties, has submitted an agricultural message biding for a promise of a promise for the industry. Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck really deserves praise for the offensive approach that the government shows to Norwegian food production and agriculture as an important industry. The Central Party and the Government state that the primary task of Norwegian agriculture in the future is to produce safe and clean food and thereby ensure that Norway takes part in the responsibility for international food security. Food production shall be the primary task of agriculture and social tasks. The agricultural message is put into a global perspective, where the need for food is evident in a world where a billion people are starving today. We know that in the coming years, the world's population will increase to nine billion, and over the next 20 years, the population here to land will increase by one million. The agricultural communication states that each country has the right and obligation to produce food for its own population. That's the introduction to the whole message. Food security is important — both nationally and internationally. Food production is currently at a historically high level. This government has ever set the most offensive production target when it determines that food production should be increased by 20 pst. until 2030 to meet the needs of an increasing population. The goal is for us to produce an equal proportion of our own food in the future. This is an important requirement and has been a central area of the Centre Party in the field of agricultural notification. In order for us to achieve these big goals, we have to take care of the food soil. It is a vulnerable resource and must therefore be safeguarded for the future. The centre lot is occupied by a strong soil protection and this is reflected in the notification. The channelling policy becomes important in the future, and the Centre Party and the Red-Green Government are concerned with increasing production as far as possible on Norwegian resources, with special emphasis on roughage and pasturage. This is an important premise in government policy. With as large a measure of food production as the red-green government is now proposing, it is those areas of the country that have the best natural basis, which must take the greatest responsibility for increased production. But we're going to have to use the whole country to achieve these production targets, and that's why we're going to have to invest in both large and small uses. Resources are available throughout the country, and it is necessary to facilitate their use. It is a well-known case that there are greater challenges to food production in our country than in a number of countries around us, both in terms of geography and climate. In addition, there are major geographical challenges in the different parts of the country. Therefore, the policy needs to be adapted to the challenges we face in the different parts of the country, so that we can achieve the high production targets set by the government for Norwegian food production in the next few years. The Communication states that the rural profile should become clearer and that it should be invested in the areas where agriculture is a major part of the business activity. This is one of several important points in the Communication highlighted by the Central Party in the position of the Trade Committee. The centre party is also pleased that Arctic agriculture and mountain farming are separate areas of activity in the notification. It is gratifying to say that the Northern Norse Agriculture Council has had an impact on all its important points in the communication on Arctic agriculture. The whole value chain depends on effective import protection, and this is a prerequisite for maintaining a Norwegian food sector with farmers and the food industry. It is positive that both the LO and the NHO in the hearing of the Committee underlined the importance of import protection. In the Agriculture Communication, we take concrete steps to make investment more profitable. In the Committee's comments, it is underlined that we also want to look at several incentives to increase investment in agriculture. When the Senter party joined the government, agriculture had had many lean years, and the income gap to other groups had grown large. Therefore, the spin-off that the red-green, with the Senterpartiet in the head, started in 2005 was crucial for the industry. It is this income development of the Centre Party and the Government will now further develop, because income is essential for recruitment and renewal. Political will is measured when one sits with power. The center party is dedicated to delivering when we sit in government. We'll keep doing that. The centre party is committed to pursuing a policy that creates optimism and confidence in agriculture throughout the country, so that young people will want to bet on a future in the industry. Future generations are important for industry – and Norwegian agriculture is important for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e595	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e598	We have recorded that the agricultural message has split the Senter party into two. It is an internal uprising, and it is a proposal that is on the table, which is not in line with the Minister of Agriculture. We also record that today’s edition of the United Nations has a notice on building degradation and braking. That curve, which goes up and down a little bit -- terrible a lot down lately -- actually reminds me of a journey with the mountain and valley tracks. How can an agricultural policy that is so unpredictable – up and down – be good for farmers? Everyone understands that it's not possible. When the central party in government does not put pressure on agricultural policy, it is agricultural policy that loses. My question is this: It is said that many measures have been put forward in the communication. I then want to challenge Lange Nordahl on three concrete actions – actions, not just beautiful words – that the Centre Party has got through in this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e609	I am very proud today that we are presenting an ambitious agricultural report. The centre party has been an active driver, along with the other government parties, to get the big promise of increased food production, that we should have agriculture based on Norwegian resources across the country. We're going to give the industry a boost. We're going to further develop the income growth we've seen in recent years, where we've had a reverse operation, and we're going to have increased investment in agriculture. Soil protection is also a very important prerequisite here. This is a boost for agriculture. Good reception of the message. We are very committed to achieving the objectives of the communication, with the policy we are going to pursue – as opposed to the policy of the Progress Party, which will frustrate large parts of agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e617	Through the appeal of several central party politicians, we have become aware that the Central Party has national meetings which are in line with the policy promoted by the Christian People's Party in connection with this communication. I found the following political main point on the Central Party's website yesterday: they want an income target that ensures that the farmer gets increased income opportunities. They want to increase Norwegian food production. They want to strengthen soil protection in order to secure the best food soil in Norway, and eventually they want to improve and increase investment instruments. In addition, an agricultural investment fund scheme must be established. So this is identical to our proposals that are being promoted today. My question to the representative is: how does it feel to have put government cooperation in front of all the concrete points adopted last year by the Central Party National Assembly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e626	Almost all of the points raised by the representative Andersen Eide from our national meetings have been fulfilled in the notification. That's exactly what's the point here. Increased food production is the big goal. There shall still be a positive trend in income. It will be easier to invest. There are measures for increased recruitment. This is the government's agricultural policy. It's the Center Party with the Minister of Agriculture who's been in the driver's seat here. I would also like to say that I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is with us in a lot of the important areas of agricultural policy. I will come back to it in an article later today. We see a clear division of parties here, where the Red-Green and Christian People's Party stands for a common, important agricultural policy – as opposed to the Right and the Advance Party. The challenge to the Christian People's Party is, of course, what choice to make in the next crossroads in the case of Norwegian agriculture and government participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e635	Under the red-green government, the investment drought in agriculture is increasing, and more and more farms are being closed down. After almost seven years with the Central Party in government, this trend continues, which affects the least users in the districts. In today's nations, we can read about the sharp decline in poultry farming, while pointing out that new economic instruments that can contribute to badly-needed investment are among the greatest shortcomings in the big business report we are dealing with here today. In the 2012 Right-wing Alternative State Budget, we proposed to set up an agricultural investment fund. The leader of today's edition of the Nations supports this Right-wing proposal. Will the Central Party meet the farmers by supporting the Right in the case of an investment fund, with the tax advantage to the farmers who want to invest in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e646	First, I would like to say that I am proud of the result that the Central Party has achieved in the time we have been in government. We have achieved a chronically similar development for agriculture as for other groups. We've increased the transfers. We have a decline in use that is significantly reduced, and the decline in cultivated soil is halved. We are now delivering the most ambitious agricultural message of the time, which has great ambitions for increased food production, continued positive income trends, increased investment and increased recruitment. We're going to grab hold of the announcement regarding investments. We have done so in connection with higher depreciation rates for livestock. It is also stated in the comments on the Communication that we will consider other incentives relating to investment. It would be natural to look at investment funds in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e655	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e658	This is an important day for Norwegian agriculture. The agricultural message will lead agriculture for at least the next 10 years, and it is therefore very important that there is broad consensus on the reality description and intentions of the agricultural message — and that is it. The agricultural message describes today’s situation and development very well, and it is not difficult to relate to the reality description in the message. However, the communication is little visionary, it lacks clear objectives, clear strategies and concrete instruments. The Christian People's Party wants to build up under the active peasant to secure agriculture in all parts of the country. This is essential for increasing food production and also important for maintaining housing in the districts and a living cultural landscape. That is why it has been so important for the Christian People's Party to get good and committed formulations that ensure better instruments, clearer strategies and clearer goals. The Christian People's Party believes that the agricultural message should be much more offensive — agriculture needs income balancing, Norway needs increased food production, and the next generations need stronger soil protection. It is this Christian People's Party has fought for, a struggle we now, when the battle stands in the Storting, experience standing alone in. Those we in Stortinget viewed as our strongest supporters to improve agricultural policy, have made full retreat and turned the farming industry and our backs. But with good support from the industry itself, the Farmers' Team, as well as a number of other organisations and teams, we've taken the fight, for what's more important than securing the dining room for our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. The biggest threat to increased food production is the massive degradation of the food soil. It's mostly the best soil being redisposed. The grain area has been reduced by 640,000 deches in 20 years, and the figures show that we can assume a further decrease of 300,000 deches by 2020. We also see that the domestic supply of beef has not met demand in the last ten years. This has led to a lasting and increasing need for imports. These trends need to be reversed, and it is this communication that should provide the necessary strong and good measures and strategies. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes a grain strategy and a strategy for increased meat production from roughage-based livestock. At the same time, we propose a stronger protection of the best soil. The livelihood of agriculture is crucial for recruitment and essential to the achievement of the agricultural policy objectives. The income gap between the farmers and others will be standing as a sign of the government's lack of willingness to bet on the active farmer. All the beautiful words about the reality and importance of income growth are followed up by the lack of will and absence of action. Therefore, the Christian People's Party promotes both a proposal for income balancing and a proposal for an investment fund based on a model from the forest fund. The Christian People's Party has three clear main messages that we've been promoting all along: provide agriculture with income development that reduces the gap to other groups to put in place clear strategies for increasing cereal and meat production ensuring food storage with a stronger soil protection; When the matter is to be voted on this afternoon, the government parties have to make a choice. If they want to reduce the unfair income gap, if they want to increase food production and strengthen soil protection, they can vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal – so simple for the government, so crucial for agriculture. I bring up the proposals of the Christian People's Party, as they appear in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e697	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e702	I would first like to thank the Christian People's Party for the comments we, and the Right, are together on, so that civil cooperation can be found in many areas of this communication. I would also like to commend the Christian People's Party for concrete proposals in relation to the government parties, which I do not see having any concrete proposals. What I want to talk about is soil protection, which is strong in the Christian People's Party. I think maybe you want to regulate a little too much, and it can help prevent social development. In my district, for example, 100 targets were reregulated. On the 100 goals we got a Rema 1000 store and a Bonnpreis store, we got 30 apartments, we got infrastructure and a little bit more tidy. It's okay to take care of the earth, but you don't have to be too law-abiding and rather encourage more innovation, take care of the soil we have, and upgrade it. I would like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e711	Thank you for the commendable words. We stand as a center party with the government parties in quite a lot, but also with the Progress Party and the Right in a part. The representative points to social responsibility and development, for which we are also responsible, in terms of the use of the earth, and mention shops and a little bit of each other. These shops are going to have food, and to get that food in the shops we also need a strict soil protection. We are concerned that we should plan for the long term, and you can do that, for example. do so by planning with the neighbouring municipality. Where do we put these shops, and where do we put the infrastructure to maximise and optimise soil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e720	The Christian People's Party and the representative have a strong commitment to soil protection, as we just heard in the reply. The right side stands with the Christian People's Party in a note that describes the importance of soil protection, but we have not agreed to vote in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party on lawmaking. It's a little bit because we don't know what's in this, and that's what I wanted to ask the representative Andersen Eide about. I know that she will attend a meeting on soil protection in my own county, Vestfold, in a little while, right next to where the new four-field E18 breaks through to some arable land – with the support of many. Will there be some sort of exception in the bill that the Christian People's Party can imagine around soil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e728	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we stand together in important observations on soil protection: we are together concerned about the development that is taking place in central areas, and we are concerned about the degradation of food soils where the food soil is the best. My answer to the representative will probably be one of the same as I replied to the representative from the Progress Party: what is important in managing the soil, and what is important in planning infrastructure interventions, is that you see this in a larger context, that you can join neighbouring municipalities and look at where you can delineate the abuse, that is to use food land for infrastructure – for industry, for housing, etc. That's my answer. If there's going to be dispensations, or how we're going to do this, we might have to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e737	It's when a party sits in power, you see how a party actually prioritizes, and I'm impressed by Knut Arild Hareide's roughness, because he has said that it has become a better agricultural policy since 2005. It's rust. I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party in comments is now impatient and wants a different course in agricultural policy than when they themselves were in power. It's of the good. Then I have noticed that my good colleague and center friend Hans Olav Syversen, who is the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, has been very clear that if there is a majority consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Christian People's Party wants a change of government based on the Right Party and the Advance Party. How, then, will the Christian People's Party be able to achieve the goals – when we have heard in the debate today that the representative, Mr. Treldal, wants to cut more than 7 billion. kr directly over one budget, that Right wants to cut 1 960 million. kr in a concluded agreement between the State and industry, and that both parties are in favour of removing trade restrictions, i.e. reducing customs protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e744	First of all, I would say that the Christian People's Party is conducting Christian People's Party policies and is not responding to the policies of others. We are pursuing the agricultural policy that the country needs, and we intend to do so in the future. We think it's sad what we've seen in the last few days – the horror propaganda we've seen, among other things. have read in the nations – for what we have been busy about is the content of the message. We want to take care of agriculture, and we have a clear message from our party leader that agriculture is not for sale. That shall be noted by the representative of the Central Party. We give agriculture a high priority. The Christian People's Party will perhaps find itself in a tipping position in the centre of Norwegian politics, and one must be sure that agricultural policy is one of the important pillars that we want to carry into any cooperation – no matter who it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e753	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e756	We are now dealing with a so-called big and important matter from the government, a matter that has been repeatedly put at risk – perhaps because of internal disagreement in the government – and which, when it finally comes to Stortinget, strictly does not contain so much new. The most concrete thing is that in the future we should produce as much food per capita as we do today. It is well and good, but Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian agricultural policy need a significant reorientation. The framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture were developed several decades ago, with channelling policies in the 1950s and escalating decisions in the 1970s. In the view of the Left, today's framework needs strong modernisation. It is not suitable for achieving the objectives of housing, employment, food security and income levels that the Left shares with the Government, nor is it suitable for achieving the Left's objectives of increased animal welfare and more environmentally friendly agriculture. The number of operational uses and the number of active farmers are falling rapidly, and the same developments will continue with the leadership of the message we are discussing today. The agricultural policy of the left is based on the farmer as a self-employed person. The left will therefore have a forward-looking agricultural policy based on good government grant schemes, combined with simplifications and opportunities for individual farmers to maximise the potential and resources available on individual farms. This is the genuine liberal centre position in Norwegian agricultural policy: a combination of state budget appropriations around the current level, but with greater freedom for individual farmers to take out, in addition, a higher income potential directly in the market, by taking advantage of the advantages associated with individual farming – whether through the production of experiences or the production of food and drink, or a combination of these. The left will have a review of the entire agricultural agreement with the aim of modifying and simplifying the negotiations to deal exclusively with the instruments which have a direct impact on farmers' incomes. The other areas currently covered by the agricultural agreement should be ordinary budget lines as defined by the Storting. This will be more democratic than today's, it will take the negotiations out of the meeting rooms and give the Storting a clearer responsibility. The left also wants a full review of the comprehensive agricultural legislation, with a view to strong modernisation, fewer forms, simpler guidelines and a gradual change in market regulation. Unnecessary red tape and legislation that impedes the daily lives of the farmer must be removed. In concrete terms, the Left will remove the right to vote, remove the prohibition of division in the law on land and have a strong embellishment of price control and housing obligations relating to agricultural property. The Left also believes that there is a need to modernise milk production. Many co-operation regulations should be abolished, as co-operation will obviously be a solution many farmers want in the future, not least young farmers. In order to facilitate more young motivated farmers, the Left will introduce a system of start-up quotas in milk production at a reduced price. The left will strengthen soil protection. Soil protection is a prerequisite for our descendants to have the opportunity to produce their own food on their own soil and a prerequisite for increasing the production of food as a result of growing more. Climate change can change the conditions for food production across the globe, and it increases the need for enhanced soil protection. The left will therefore strengthen soil protection by ensuring protection against irreversible changes in particularly valuable productive agricultural land. The left will replace, as far as possible, land which is re-disposed for expansion purposes with new cultivated area with the same value for production. Climate change has created considerable uncertainty about future food production. We have a commitment to ourselves and the world to use our nature to provide food in a sustainable way. Finally, I take up the Left's proposal, which has been distributed in the Chamber, and at the same time informs that the Left will support minority proposals No. One, two, three, four, seven, eight, ten, 14, 15 and 18 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e779	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e784	When Left had the Minister of Agriculture, the support schemes were transformed into less support for the small farms and more support for the large farms. Is there a policy that the Left will continue to pursue if they gain power over agricultural policy? And: Does the Left calculate that weakening support for the small uses will help to maintain cultivated land?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e791	If the representative had followed my post instead, he would have heard what I said about strengthening soil protection, increasing food production. Attack is the best defense. Now, of course, the representative cannot answer, but I find it strange that a representative from the West, where he sees that little use is being laid down daily, and from SV – who has been in a majority government for seven years – attacks a party for an agricultural minister that we had many years ago. In fact, I think that is rather ridiculous, if 'boisterous' is a parliamentary expression, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e796	There was no answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e801	The left wants Norway to go ahead and continue to reduce import barriers and production-related subsidies. How will this affect Norwegian agriculture and the production of Norwegian food, which Left says they are very concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e806	I do not think the representative has fully followed up on my post. We haven't touched the import protection. But when it comes to subsidising food, it is quite right. We have said – and the Minister of Agriculture has actually also said – that the subsidy we have on the Jarlsbergosten should be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e812	I choose to refer to some left-wing politicians. That's sometimes wise. Sveinung Rotevatn has said: we want to introduce lower customs walls, smaller subsidies and more free trade. Head of the Hedmark Left, Erik Ringnes, said afterwards: we have a common desire to change agricultural policy. Does the Tend agree with the objectives of Sveinung Rotevatn?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e823	Young Left has a very active, competent leader. Young Left must of course try to influence the mother party as best they can. That's how it works between the Youth Party and the Mother Party in Norwegian politics. Then, as I said in my post, and as I also know the representative from Hedmark will, we will have a more forward-looking agricultural policy than the one we see today. We see that the tools we have now are not working. An agricultural report with many good objectives is presented, but the instruments are not there. Where are the concrete means by which agricultural closures, which occur every day, will stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e830	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e833	In 1992, the world’s leaders met in Rio de Janeiro to adopt sustainable development goals — economic, social and environmental. When world leaders meet again in Rio in June, 20 years later, food security has become one of the main themes. Sustainable development is now about something as fundamental as providing food to a rapidly increasing population and managing limited resources such as soil and water. Food security is one of the major challenges of our time and is an important backbone for the development of national agricultural policy and future food production in Norway. I am very pleased that an overall committee agrees that we in Norway must make use of our resources and facilitate the widest possible production of the agricultural products we require to produce nationally. Norway also has high population growth. By 2030 we will be six million Northmen. Therefore, the main objective and message of the new agricultural and food communication is to increase food production in Norway, as demand for an increasing population increases. It shall take place in a manner that ensures that all food in Norway is safe. It does not come of itself, but requires systematic work. Plant health, good animal health and animal welfare are the basis for both food safety and cost-effective and sustainable food production. For the first time, the whole width of the agricultural and food policy area and the entire length of the value chains are covered in one and the same notification. This is a communication on food, agriculture, forestry, sanitation, construction industries, innovation and district policy – we could mention much more. We need to see all this in context to enable agriculture to exploit the breadth of its resources, and we need to have policies and ambitions for the whole value chain. Norwegian agricultural and food policies are both about consumers, about industry and about society. The aim is to reduce the distance between the food producer and the consumer. The Norwegian food model, as many have mentioned, is based on strong import protection, cooperation between authorities and industry and a responsible cooperative. Norwegian food production cannot take place without continued strong import protection. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, also suggests that the entire Norwegian food value chain depends on strong import protection. Import protection is a pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy and a prerequisite for maintaining a large Norwegian food sector with farmers, the food industry and the food trade. I am pleased that also the Right and Advance Party in the setting indicates that ‘The protection of imports is and will be an important pillar both for Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry in the years to come’.» It is essential for Norwegian food production that we have broad political agreement on import protection. Norwegian food production is a collaborative project between industry and the state. For more than 60 years, the financial framework has been put in place through the agricultural sector. This has contributed to the foreseeable food supply for the Norwegian people, and is a security and economic stability that no other farmer in the world knows about. The Government will continue to conclude annual agricultural agreements with agriculture. For 80 years Norwegian farmers have cooperated through the cooperative to ensure the disposal of their products. The cooperatives take responsibility. They work with market regulation and enable farmers all over the country to get their products delivered at the right prices. The Norwegian food model shall be continued. The most critical for recruiting young people into the industry and keeping production going is the level of income. When the red-green government took over in 2005, the level of income in agriculture was alarmingly low. The distance to other groups in society had increased in the years before we took over. It was necessary to do something about it. That's why every day the Red-Green government has worked systematically to improve the integration possibilities in the industry. So far, we've been able to give agriculture the opportunity of the same increase that other groups have had, measured in dollars. From 2006 until 2012, the average income option in agriculture has increased by approximately DKK 110 000 per year, or 70 pst. according to the Agricultural Budget Item. That is what we have delivered, and that is the policy we need to develop further. Based on the full range of agricultural resources, Norwegian agriculture will strengthen and contribute to employment and housing across the country, through both traditional industries and rural industries. Policy is to want, and then we have to design goals and instruments then. In order to exploit resources for increased food production, we need to use different sizes and compensate for disadvantages in areas where climate and topography make the growing season short and do not allow large use. In order to contribute to this, agricultural policy should be made more effective through a clearer rural profile, increased regional space for action and regional efforts. On 16 June last year, the Right of the Representative, the Fleet, stood at this interlocutory and said: ‘The Committee’s treatment of the agricultural settlement of the year shows that there is a fundamental consensus on the importance of the role of agriculture in the Norwegian society. The right is behind the objectives of agricultural policy. We want a profitable agriculture throughout the country.' I notice that the Right in its own new message and in the setting has left the goal of agriculture all over the country. So the right is now reversing one of the most important and crucial agricultural policy issues. This surprises and disappoints. I cannot entirely believe with my best will that the whole party is standing right behind this. A key factor in exploiting the resources of Norwegian agricultural properties is property policy. The government is proposing to make it easier to divide from attractive plots and to get bought areas you run. I am pleased that we have broad political agreement to soften the regulatory framework for the sharing of agricultural property. Today, there are major challenges in parts of Sami reindeer management. The purity figure is too high and the pressure on grazing resources is too high. This is a threat to grazing areas, and therefore also to the reindeer industry and an important part of the Sami culture. This situation cannot continue. I am pleased that an overall committee believes that it is important to find solutions that are sound on the basis of a balance between reindeer and grazing basis, and underlines the importance of reducing reindeer in areas where there is too much purity. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, is aware that the government will continue to pursue the objective of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. I am also pleased that the same majority in the Committee realizes that the government will simplify and streamline public administration of reindeer management. It is important to put in place these large – and perhaps for some groups of tough – grips in order to take advantage of the fantastic opportunities offered by the Sami reindeer. This government has also reintroduced forest policy. I am pleased with the broad consensus on the basic elements of forest policy as the setting shows. An overall committee is pleased that the government is pursuing the objective of increasing sustainable activity in order to meet any increased demand for a basis for forest policy. Furthermore, I would like to stress that an overall committee agrees that sustainable forest management is good climate policy, good business policy and good environmental policy. In order to take advantage of the many opportunities offered by the agricultural industry, we need even more wise heads. We need even more skilled food producers who invest personal resources and involve family and community to build up Norwegian food production. We need to ensure that primary production, food processing and administration operators have sufficient skills to develop and improve. To achieve this, we will continue to invest heavily in research and development. Climate change and food shortage are two of the biggest challenges facing the world. These problems must be solved at the same time. It assumes that nature is balanced. Agriculture shall contribute by cutting its emissions and through long-term resource management, more soil protection, the production of common resources and the care of natural diversity. The population is increasing, and the need for Norwegian food production is greater than in a long time. This requires long-termity and an ambitious and firm policy. That is why we are adding this agricultural and food notification, which is now being treated in Stortinget, to a large increase in Norwegian food production. We will focus on the use of Norwegian resources. To achieve this, we need – and we should – a variety of agriculture across the country. We are planning to increase national production, as far as possible based on Norwegian resources, inter alia. grass and pasturage. I am pleased and proud to be able to present such ambitious targets for Norwegian food production. It provides opportunities for the Norwegian farmer. It provides opportunities for the Norwegian food industry. It gives the consumer food safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e902	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e905	We can read in the nations today that the mountain-and-dal course of the Center Party is in progress. We see that the curve goes up and down in terms of agricultural construction and new establishments. We also see that we have the greatest fall of time – 27 p.m. from last year. We see that during the time of the government and the Minister of Agriculture, there has been a sharp decline. My question to the Council of State Breck is: Are you satisfied that we now have the biggest case in terms of new construction, and can you mention – because I can't see it – anywhere in the message where it says that you are submitting measures here? You talk a lot about what to do, but what measures? Will measures be taken in relation to agricultural production?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e912	The President will remind the representative, Mr. Träldal, that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e915	I have recorded what the Statistics Central Bureau's 2011 construction project shows. Let it be said immediately: the need for agriculture is great. I am committed to facilitating an increase in the renewal of agricultural equipment. Let's also say that construction activity has been high in recent years, for example. there has been an exceptional activity in the egg industry due to an order for transition to a new operating system. The figures for 2011 are significantly higher than for the period 2000–2005. At the same time, we're not going to look blindly at the evolution between single-years in these statistics. Historical data show that the numbers are fluctuating. The main point for me is to continue to work to improve the framework conditions and to give priority to investment instruments, as we write in the agricultural notification, and so the industry implements the necessary renewal of the operational apparatus. Let me mention that we have many good, concrete suggestions in this communication. I recommend the representative Tjäldal to read it better than he has done, including. it is described that we need an increase in the depreciation rates, a change in the food production fee, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e924	To read the message: I am pleased that the Council of State has read comments, and that he praises the Party of Advances and the Right to write in the notes that import protection is important – I think it is used the term ‘bearer’ in Norwegian agricultural policy. Does that mean that when the Central Party's Social Violence Vedum from this pulpit today says that the same parties will remove import protection, there is something I don't have to care about, and that I can hear his council, who reads the comments from Stortinget – in contrast to what the representative clearly does?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e929	With the risk of having heard errors: I did not see the comments of the representative, the Battle Violence Vedum. The point of import protection is that it is completely dependent on having it to maintain Norwegian food production. I think we all agree on that. But then there is uncertainty in the timing of the Right Party and the Advance Party as to how to look at the future import protection regime. Talks include: that there is no room for manoeuvre in the existing WTO Agreement, because there may be a risk that it might go beyond other parts of the value chain. It's a real discussion, but there's uncertainty on the part of the Right Party and the Advance Party when you so clearly say that you're not sure what you want. I am not asking questions about right-wing interests in import protection, I am just concerned that we should have a strong import protection. That's what I want the Right to confirm that they want to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e934	The Christian People's Party agrees with the government parties and with what is stated in the Communication, when it is pointed out that income is essential for the recruitment of agriculture. The industry itself, the stakeholder organisations and the Christian People's Party have wanted a stronger wording in terms of income. This has not been the will. We have a feeling that there has been a drag fight when the message was written – between the Ministry of Finance, which would limit the use of money, and the Ministry of Agriculture, which would provide better income conditions for farmers. Now that the message is finally on the table, we see that the income target is weakened – and downgraded to be on the same line with other groups. This means that the income gap between farmers and other groups is continued at the current level. It is therefore natural to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether this is the Minister of Agriculture's communication or the Minister of Finance's communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e942	That question should not have been asked – it is, of course, the Minister of Agriculture’s message that is presented here. Let me stress that not so much has happened since the 1960s and 1970s in terms of income development, which is now, after the red-greens came into position. We have managed to implement a crown-like development for agriculture as for other groups. These are historically good results. In my opinion, this should also have been recognised by the Christian People's Party when working on this matter. We are committed to improving and further developing this policy, it is described in the Communication, and no one should claim that nothing has happened in terms of improving income for Norwegian farmers and increasing income opportunities. It is indisputable, based on the results we have documented every year. And let me stress: every year, budget support for agriculture has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e953	One of the major challenges for fairer trade in food is that the rich countries stop subsidising exports of their own food production to other countries’ markets. Now Norway is not a mess in that way, but they still make a fairly large contribution, in the hundreds of millions, to export subsidies for Jarlsbergost, as I also mentioned in my place, and then primarily to the US market. Recently, the House of Representatives, by a large majority, approved that the US government could levy taxes on subsidised products imported from China and other countries, which means that the Norwegian export subsidy from Jarlsbergosten becomes quite meaningless, to say the least. I have a quote from the Minister of Agriculture saying that he wants to remove it in the long term. Is that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e960	Now I'm not going to comment on policy developments in the United States, but I think it's quite special if Jarlsbergosten, which is the most expensive cheese you find in American stores, will be charged an extra charge because it competes out American cheese. In the case of export subsidies, Norway is not the worst. We're the best in class -- let's underline it and agree on it. We have said that in WTO negotiations we must eliminate export subsidies that we have today. It will be implemented if and when WTO negotiations are opened.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e967	First, a comment on the previous line I had, where the minister responded to a reduction – that there has been little new construction. Then I register that what he said was that the central party is without impact in the government and does not pass through. Therefore, the decline during the time of Breck has gone very quickly. A new question for the Minister is about organic production. The notification states that within eight years 15 pst. be organic. You have 4.9 pst today. area, and you have a turnover of only 1 pst. We have recorded that people from the Senterpartiet and the Bondelag have also said that they have no faith that this bet is correct. But then we see, of course, that SV controls this, because they want public procurement. My question to Breck is: Does he himself believe that it is possible to reach 15 pst. within eight years, and how will he achieve these objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e976	Let me first go back to the previous question from the representative, Tåldal. We have implemented a policy that has led to a significant new construction in recent years – it is on top. There has been a slight decline in the last year due to the smaller construction of "egg poultry" to use that term. So organic production. We want organic production because it's a spearhead for us to improve the possibilities of conventional production. The target of 15 pst. by 2020 is very ambitious. I've said earlier in this room that I'm not sure if we're gonna make it. I think we should be honest with that. At the same time, it should not take us away from the ambition to achieve that – the ambition to increase the area, the ambition to increase the volume of sales. Let me finally underline that the volume of sales is now increasing again. There's more demand now, and there's been more demand in the last year after we got a little away from the financial crisis that significantly reduced the sales of organic products.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e985	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e988	It is a warm and inclusive term for this big message called Welcome to the table. Yes, there are always many ingredients that need to be in place to make a good meal and make it possible for guests and the family to have a good taste. That is why the work on this message has been very important to many actors across the country. Many people are going to be able to get their share of the cake to be satisfied guest, if we're going to say so. Based on the interests shown by the actors, not least the Farmers' and Farmers' Team, which I want to draw up, they have also come in good shape before this meal can now be served. Arguments and important issues have been discussed throughout the country. I would like to thank the Council of State and the Advocate General Arne L. The mound for an excellent work and commitment to get us to the table here today. Arne L. The Haugen has had a wide article earlier from the Workers' Party, so I can drag myself a little on another track. I also believe that in the nutrition committee we can reassure the representative Lundtegene that we have now refreshed the child's teaching of photosynthesis, which he has talked a lot about. I want to emphasise that we can get great climate gains at the cutting end of the forest, and that this is supported by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Therefore, it is important to demonstrate that the emphasis is on productive forests in growth both as valuables and in climate contexts, cf. St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009, where it is clear that agriculture is an important part of the solution to climate challenges. Allkog is clear that active forestry is the best for the climate, and that this must focus on this message and have its place in the climate communication. All in the Committee, except the Progress Party, will facilitate a more targeted environmental effort in forestry by strengthening knowledge of nature and cultural values in forests, and strengthening the preservation of such values in the context of planning and operation, environmental registrations, voluntary protection, cooperation agreements and the use of new instruments in the Natural Diversity Act. Government parties are also concerned that we should have an appropriate infrastructure from forest to industry and remote markets. It contributes to the competitiveness of business, thereby continuing the importance of the sector as an important industry for the districts and the country. The environmental aspect is important in relation to the road network of forestry and, not least, the organisation of maritime use to a greater extent, as seen in the report, which has been done by SINTEF for coastalforestry. They have looked at a priority plan for the development of timber brands along the Norwegian coast, from Rogaland to Finnmark. This could contribute to minimising the total transport and investment costs in order to facilitate the rational delivery of work from forest to investment. Here, some are already ready for expansion. Ørsta in More and Romesdal are among them. The message facilitates increased transport of timber and biofuels by boat and rail, which will also help to increase market access. It is therefore gratifying that the Ministry should work to strengthen the development of timber brands and to strengthen railway infrastructure for timber. The desire to improve the interaction between road, rail, air and sea modes of transport needs to be reflected in the discussion now around NTP. The freight transport strategy proposes to strengthen the competitiveness of business through better accessibility, reduced distance costs and rational competition between transport sectors. Efforts shall be made to improve the efficiency and use of the advantages of the various modes of transport, while increasing the emphasis on the transfer of goods from road to rail and sea. The priority and importance of seeing roads, railways and ports in the context. The government has set itself the goal of doubling rail freight capacity almost over the next 10 years. From this perspective, government contributes to increased competitiveness, efficient logistics and good environmental policies. I would argue that this should be seen as good and healthy food on the political table that is today covered. Well done!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1007	Then came the day of the debate to save and further develop Norwegian agricultural policy, namely the debate on Melding. St. 9 Agricultural and food policy Welcome to the table. It is possible that many believed in my introduction in advance of the message and before the committee had presented its final result, but I believe – in line with many – that many are disappointed. Even a part of the Center Party is dissatisfied. In the view of the Progress Party, the notification is only a continuation of previous agricultural policy, where innovation and a change in course are not present. It does not give the youth who might think of taking on the life's work of parents — and perhaps even of generations earlier — the inspiration for this. These include: The Norwegian agricultural problem is precisely this: while it was previously valid to be a nobleman or a nobleman and to take over the farm, it is not today. Often it is the second sibling to take over – because they think they have to – to carry the farm forward within the family. If this fails, they keep it, they take it away and hope for better times. But when the better times come, it is very uncertain – with today's government and its policy. This proves the number of farmers today, the number of farmers, the number of jobs, the number of empty farms and the number of farms in production, etc., not to say a lack of this. In short, we've never had as few farmers as now, and of these, there's only a few percent, approx. 14, which has this as exclusive. Otherwise, we have never had as many unoccupied and unused houses and farm buildings as we have now. At the same time, we have not had as many people as we are interested in buying small farms as we are now. These might not be farmers with big B, but they would live there, cleaned up and thus enriched the community. The gas station, the store, the school, the well-being, etc. would have new members/users. The quality of life is so poor. For some of Norway’s population, owning, living and running a small drug would be maximum. But because of the maximum price of the sale of a property and the requirement for approval by the public, we will never be able to settle on these properties. The Progress Party believes that agreement on price, regardless of what it is, is a matter between two parties that the public should not care about. A maximum price should reflect the yield of the farm after today's system, but what is it? With societal developments and new opportunities, a new owner can see new opportunities, which will yield a higher return than traditional agriculture currently has. Norwegian agriculture is regulated in the strictest detail. This applies, for example: what and how much one can grow, and how many pigs, hens, etc. one can have. The same applies to joint ventures, which form of ownership a farm may have, such as: AS. The difficulty — and almost impossibility — of getting AS for example. a larger forest property finds the party of progress very strange. If a family, for example, if the forest company wishes to be distributed equally between their child and has statutes governing ownership, conditions of use, etc., this should be ok. One would think – as the Progress Party does – that the individual owner himself knows best what benefits the property and what it uses, not public authorities. The same applies to compulsory residence and compulsory employment. The party of progress has confidence that the individual owner and user themselves will handle this for the best. With today's legislation, this is getting messed up, and you should not ignore the fact that someone might be tricking around with this. The dwelling obligation is fulfilled after five years of residence. Then you can do whatever you want. What's the point of such a directive? It only creates losers, and you get a negative relationship with the law. The Industry Committee has recently been on its way to Brazil. It was a very interesting and rewarding trip, where we visited and had many meetings with several industries where Norway is involved and does well. We were also on farm visits and looked at how agriculture works there. One farm we visited had several hundred thousand targets of land cultivation. The soils were flat and easy to grow. It was almost so that heaven and earth went in one in the horizon. They got two crops a year. This farm had, if I remember correctly, 56 harvesters, essentially branded John Deere, with a seven-foot-long cutting table. To get the crops from the soil to the grain silo, they had 70 car combinations. After I realized it, they were also driving slaughter pigs and chickens. They slaughtered 5,000 pigs every day and were going to increase this to 10,000. I don't remember the number of chickens, but it was also very high. There they were not plagued by regulations or similar, but produced food for the country's inhabitants as well as for exports, among other things. to Norway. In Norway, it is said that self-sufficiency needs to be increased, that it is too low — without including the number of fish meals we export daily. This would have been solved by releasing the restrictions imposed on Norwegian agriculture today. There are very many capable farmers with thoughts and intrusions, who can and will produce a lot more than they do today. That's why the Progress Party says, "Get rid of the farmer." Then we'll get a growing farm, where the districts will flourish and the families of children will find the quality of life they're looking for. The economic fraction of the Progress Party has also been on a study trip to Sweden, Denmark and Finland not long ago. There we were told how the farmer’s everyday life had changed for the better since agriculture was changed — of course, something different from country to country, depending on the nature of the conditions, but the belief in agriculture and forestry was there. The fact that some from other countries call Norway the last Soviet state accounts for them, but at least I have not registered that there are so many who have said against them. There is no doubt that all parties will have an up-to-date forestry and agriculture, which provides Norway with the most possible of what it is natural that we can produce. All parties want a settlement in the districts, where the quality of life exists, but what separates the government parties and the Progress Party is that we want this to be voluntary and up to the individual, not the state. A little back to the level of self-sufficiency and the desire for a greater percentage of what the farmer produces: it had, after the view of the Progress Party, helped some to see realistically the level of organic food production. The target of 15 pst. of all agricultural food produced shall be produced organically, helping to reduce the level of self-sufficiency – in my view. The progress batch knows that the amount of food produced organically is less than the amount of food produced in the usual way per deer. It is more labour-intensive and therefore also costly for Norway, as Norway is an expensive country to have people working in. As regards the cost of food, I was also signed with parts of the family in Sweden in Easter, on a so-called harry trip. This isn't a big or special experience for us, as we do this quite often, but on Thursday, it's still a tradition to travel to help the neighboring country financially and even save a few dollars, while having a positive experience. We also experienced this Easter that very many people did the same thing as us and had it very pleasant, so it looked like. It is clear that we are going to be able to reduce this development – growing from year to year – that Norwegian agricultural policy and Norwegian agriculture must be released. So something I have not mentioned before: tax and tax policy must be changed and reduced until what the Progress Party believes is right. Only then can we get a farm that produces the maximum, so that the districts flourish.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1049	I must be allowed to confess that I have not been on any auxiliary expeditions in Easter, so our neighbours in the East are suffering enough. The right is satisfied with the fact that there will finally be a rollover message that deals with reindeer operations. We have several times – at the latest in the treatment of the reindeer management agreement in 2009 – put forward proposals for a separate landfill notification on reindeer management. The fact that we now get it as part of the agricultural message is not exactly what we want, but we register that it is as far as this government extends in this matter. Purgatory is a culture-bearing industry of great value to both the Sami and Norwegian peoples. At the same time, both society and industry are changing. As the large community grows and modernises, the development of mineral and energy industries and the use of reindeer equipment is increasing, competition for land is becoming increasingly evident. There has been an increasing number of media redundancies dealing with serious conflicts involving reindeer operations. There are reports of grazing areas destroyed by excessive grazing pressure, conflicts with other industries such as agriculture and tourism, constant problems with predatory game and noise around the predatory game replacement scheme. The right is concerned about the internal conflicts in reindeer management. Some actors call for structuring, so that it is possible to operate rationally and economically, while others think ownership only on the basis of a mixture of historical claims and cultural sustainability needs to be sufficient. We record that there is often a conflict with the interpretations of the law, so that many people experience that pure pastures on areas that are thought to be at peace from this type of pasture. There are also several examples of ambiguities in the interpretation of the status of the reindeer management law versus the Planning and Building Act. The wide variation in the average slaughter weight recorded between reindeer grazing areas with relatively similar starting points gives cause for concern. There may be an indication of unhealthy conditions in the industry. That being said, it's important for the Right to bring forward the skilled actors in the industry. There are many practitioners and many districts producing large quantities of prima reindeer meat. Their mode of operation is sustainable in terms of both economics, ecology and the preservation of the Sami culture. They proudly manage their industry and tell the good story of market-oriented and quality-focused production. It is in these stories that we need to find solutions for the reindeer industry. The right considers that the land conflicts related to the reindeer industry are best resolved locally, but with national legislation and good strategies as a framework. The right considers that reindeer farming is best treated as an industry in terms of accounting and economic policy. That's why we want to facilitate this as much as possible. At the heart of the debate on the reindeer industry is the concept of sustainability. The main objective of sewage treatment policy in Norway is sustainable reprocessing through the sub-objectives of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. In the opinion of the Right, the concept of ecological sustainability must be governing and overriding other objectives. For the Right, profitability is important, and the prerequisite for achieving ecologically sustainable operations in the primary industries is often profitability. In other words, the desire to achieve ecological sustainability means that the industry is profitable. The prerequisites for this are once again the development of a rational market-oriented industry, with a full focus on producing high-quality food that is sought in a well-paying market. Right is concerned with ensuring that reindeer meat has a stable foothold in the market. In order to achieve that, we believe it is right to have more flexible customs protection. The right will look at a model in which the domestic market is seen on the market in the context of the export market and then regulate customs protection. There have been many media queries about problems in which reindeer management is involved. This is, in the Right's view, also part of the market problem. Often these are land conflicts or issues involving animal health legislation. Animal health laws tend to come in when describing the challenges of industry. Debilitated animals, the many on-road traffic on the Nordlandsbahn and the robberies problem are examples that challenge the concept of sustainability and give the industry poor reputation. An insufficient law and a lack of sanctions are some of the reasons why reindeer management may appear over-represented in land conflicts. There must be a law regulating grazing rights and a legal instrument capable of resolving conflicts around them. Without it, the industry will just keep eating itself from the inside. The right considers that the objective of cultural sustainability is unlikely to be compatible with the other sub-objectives, ecological and economic sustainability. In any case, the term must be defined so strictly that it cannot be used as an alibi to legislate on land use and animal health. Purification, like other industries, must take into account that modernisation of operations through technology will also result in the need for fewer hands at work. Then, when we solve these challenges, we get the industry uplifted to be as robust and as proud as we see it with the best players today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1077	The red-green government's agricultural message begins with the most important thing, and it is that the world needs more food, and that no country can take lightly on global food security. In 2010, there was drought in Russia. Everyone remembers the big fires that were there, and that Putin then imposed export restrictions. In the next two months, world wheat prices have risen by 80 pst. - 80 pst. in two months! This was the autumn of 2010 – the autumn before the Arab spring. Which country is the largest importer of wheat? It's Egypt. The enormous growth in food prices creates political instability and unforeseeableness. One of the pillars of the Arab Spring was bread. The people wanted bread and security for just bread. This Communication takes seriously the importance of food in international policy. This message has a completely different focus on food security than the previous agricultural message for treatment in the Stortinget. Today we are seven billion people. Several have been in that a billion goes hungry to bed. According to the UN, more than 15 000 children die from hunger-related causes every day. It's a huge disaster. And according to the UN, we have to increase the world's food production by between 70 pst. and 100 pst. by 2050. The challenges are great. This message states that in Norway we will take our share of responsibility in this great global effort. With regard to climate, there is no doubt – all parties agree that we in Norway should take our share of responsibility both outside and at home. For the government, it is equally important that we take responsibility in the climate crisis, and we should take responsibility in the food crisis. We will take action out of the way, through agricultural aid and other measures mentioned in the Communication, but we also need to take action at home by increasing our national food production. We're going to be a million more Northmen – a million more to have bread, milk, meat and eggs every day. That's the biggest point of the message, that Norwegian agriculture is going to be able to produce enough, that we're going to be equally self-sufficient when we're 1 million more than we are now. We're going to increase Norway's food production by 20 pst. It's going to take a lot. It's going to take a lot of us who want to live off agriculture. But that will require predictability, and that is what we must provide through secure customs protection, an agricultural agreement and politicians who are willing to use resources, so that young and old want to produce food around the entire long-range country. I am pleased that there are four parties, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, which stand together on the main pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy. That's a prerequisite for many people wanting to bet. There are several points I would like to make to ensure that we are able to increase food production, which is in the message. The first point is to use the country. We have to use the land resources in the country. There is a very clear message that we need to stop the degradation and increase productivity in the soil we have. It's not just words from this government. When we took over power, over 11,000 dean were redispatched every year. Now we're down to 6,070 dekar -- the lowest number since re-recording in 1976. Words become action. The second thing is that if you're going to make people produce food, they have to make money on it. You have to be willing to use resources so they can make money on it. The message points towards it. It's not just words, either, because after we took power, we've had a completely different willingness to use resources, so it's become chronically equal to development and actually a little bit better. But we want to go further, and that is a clear wording and a clear commitment in the communication. In order to increase production, investment in means of production is required. That's the message. The Minister of Agriculture was instead challenged as to whether there was any concrete evidence. Yes, that's something concrete. Neither are there words. In the government budget for this year, we increased depreciation rates for livestock construction precisely because it would be more profitable to invest in Norwegian agriculture and invest in food production. The whole main point of the message and the whole message to Norwegian farmers is that more Norwegian food is to be produced, and that there is a large number that wants more Norwegian food to be produced, and that we, who produce the food, are to make money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1109	As mentioned by the Advocate General and several others here, for the first time, the whole agricultural and food sector – the full width and value chain – is a common message. These are the major messages on food, agriculture, forestry, sanitation, rural industries, knowledge, innovation and district policy. The background of the message is, as the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum so well described, the very demanding global challenges. The world's population is increasing rapidly, we have a climate crisis, and we have resource scarcity. It requires all countries to try to feed their own populations. Global food production needs to increase dramatically, and that is one of the greatest challenges of our time. World needs more food. The working party is very satisfied that one of the most important objectives of this message is to increase food production. He needs to increase by nearly 1 pst. Every year for 20 years, a major task for Norwegian agriculture and food industries, and a major task for government and big business. To do this, we have to use absolutely all of our resources. We shall focus on the use of Norwegian resources, roughage and pasturage. This will also help to maintain our cultural landscape. Agriculture policy is now being given an even clearer regionalisation. In particular, it shall be invested in the areas where agriculture is an important part of local business. I am very pleased about this on behalf of the West. A differentiated usage structure also means that we call for both small and large uses and for joint ventures. In my view, synergies are shown as a small amount of attention in the message. This may be a very good option for some farmers. Here we still have a job to do, so that those who want to do it get an incentive to operate in cooperatives where the caretaker is one of the arrows. This may be one of the future recruitment measures, as it also takes care of the community of jobs and leisure time. In order to ensure, to a greater extent, a varied use structure throughout the country and to strengthen grass-based livestock farming, the rural profile of national schemes should be clarified. Developments in e.g. my part of the country, the West, is very worrying. That's why I'm glad that we're bringing more good incentives in the message to stop the closure. The Republic of Norway shall become agronomic – unique taste experiences, quality and specialities. Last year the turnover of local food increased by 13 pst. This is what we are going to do. This theme was also highlighted in the tourism strategy presented yesterday. The food industry needs to grow. Primary production and further processing are closely linked. The farmer depends on selling the food he produces to an industry that can afford to pay for it. Here, there's a mutual dependency. In order to strengthen the farmer and the food industry, the government and the Stortinget have decided to remove the levy on food production. This was almost 700 million. kr. The food industry has been busy with this for a long time, for example. to provide better opportunities for innovation and innovation. I want to come back closer to the food industry in a later article today. The Norwegian food model shall be passed on and further developed – a strong protection of imports, cooperation between authority and industry and a cooperative that takes responsibility. The import protection, agricultural agreement and cooperation are three pillars of the Norwegian food model. These arrows we have to circle around if we're to have agriculture and living settlements all over the country. This is only a red-green government that can do – even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1130	Agriculture has a strong link with traditional civic values, such as respect for private property rights, the freedom to conduct business and the protection of culture and nature, values that are highly compatible with a civil society view. The independent Norwegian farmer has always wanted as much intervention as possible and as much freedom as possible, as demonstrated by the peasantry by rebelling when the king in Copenhagen issued new taxes and taxes, which in 1540 created peasant revolts in Hjartdal, in the committee leader's home state Telemark. «Norwegian agricultural policy has expired on date as a four-year-old camember from Tine's dairies at Dovre», VG wrote on 4 April. The same leader pointed to the importance of the fact that some – some here were right – finally think about Norwegian agricultural policy. Farming in Norway is not easy, which is also emphasised by the fact that more and more uses have been discontinued in recent years and are becoming obsolete. Farmers, like everyone else, need an income to live on. Therefore, the right considers that the country should still provide financial support to agriculture. At the same time, it is important for the Right to point out that subsidies need to be less bureaucratic, that more needs to go to the farmer and less to administrative costs. So the subsidies have to be more targeted. For a long time, the right has wanted to use new tools to ensure that more farmers want to invest in and further develop farming. The basis for Higher Agricultural Policy and our alternative agricultural message lies in the fundamental values of personal freedom and the right to good life, of working and investing in Norwegian agriculture. The aim must be to achieve increased production and profitability in the industry. In order to succeed, we need more targeted use of the policy instruments. The right considers that a viable agriculture requires active farmers who are given the opportunity to operate professionally with a form of farming that gives the industry more faith in the future than we experience with today's political regime. Current measures consider that there may be changes in the subsidy structure in relation to both use sizes and geography, while increasing the removal of quota restrictions and concessional limits for production from single use and joint operations. The right also considers that budget support under international legislation should be made more production-dependent and less land-dependent, while the support for landscape management should be separate from budget support for production. Taxes and charges are necessary to finance the common good. At the same time, we find that the high level of taxes and taxes in Norway means significant additional costs that are disproportionate to the return of public finances. The individual's freedom of choice and the ability to cope on his own income are reduced and efforts and creativity are countered. This is particularly true — we see — in Norwegian agriculture. The right therefore proposes to lower the overall level of taxation and taxation for farmers. Finally, it is critical that the government with today's legislation is disrupting the operation, that the establishment of new joint ventures stops and that more people are wound up. Then I am very happy that the representative who had posts before me could tell me that the government should take a closer look at the conditions of the cooperatives. It is considered necessary, on the right, to remove quota restrictions and concession limits for production both for single use and for joint operations. I look forward to addressing the challenges that very many cooperatives face.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1156	The backbone of this message is, as many have been faced with, a very demanding global challenge. Global food production needs to increase dramatically. It's one of the greatest challenges of our time. The world needs more food – much more. What is absolutely certain is that we do not reach the goals we have set, unless we facilitate an all-round and varied agriculture across the country. If we're going to achieve those goals, we're going to have to have agriculture all over the country. This is why agricultural policy is now getting a clearer regionalisation. Particular attention shall be paid to those areas where agriculture is an essential part of local business. We need to be able to exploit the strengths, further develop where we have good environments of competence and framework conditions. We need a diversity of farm use in Norway to achieve this – small and large, single use and co-operation. Some agricultural policy measures are therefore to be decided at regional level. It concerns regional business programmes, regional environmental programmes and regional climate and forest programmes. It gives us a regional influence that we think will turn out right. In order to ensure an even greater degree of diversity in the country-wide use structure and to strengthen the grass-based livestock population, the rural profile of national schemes is becoming clearer. Developments in e.g. North Norway is particularly concerned. Some areas have few uses left, the distance between uses is increasing and the agricultural area in operation is decreasing. In order to try to respond to these developments, more emphasis shall be placed on the device based on regional policy considerations. - I know it doesn't sound good in e.g. the ears of the Progress Party and the Right as fences for competitive market systems. – In this context, the zones of agricultural policy instruments will be assessed and, where appropriate, adjusted. Areas of the country in which agriculture plays a central role and which have a decline in population shall be given increased attention to the priorities of the instruments and efforts. This applies, inter alia, to: Where I come from, North Norway. We will ensure the further development of regions with a solid tradition and identity related to agriculture, and contribute to the increased exploitation of the potential for value creation based on the breadth of agricultural resources. We will facilitate the use of local management of BU funds, and we will further develop the competitive advantages of Arctic agriculture through regional branding. Arctic quality has to be raised. And what's that now? Well, it's the light, the temperature, the clean environment and the cold climate that provides products with a very special quality and taste. It is unique for the Arctic region and should be used to exploit the potential for food production even better. The government indicates that it will be investing in Arctic agriculture, both in the Northern Region Communication and in the Agriculture and Food Communication. The Norwegian consumer is willing to, it looks like, to pay for good quality and unique taste experiences. I would dare to claim that the Norwegian consumer is actually proud of Norwegian local food production. From where I come from, Lofoten, I can pull out Lofotlam, Aaland farm with its products and not least Lofot product. They have been focusing on local food for many years and have had success. The communication is good and contributes to the stability, long-termity and predictability of agricultural policy, which is important for stakeholders. Regardless of what Højres Svein Flätten said in the change of line – The Right and the Advance Party’s policy will give a completely different situation in Norwegian agriculture and will particularly affect rural agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1177	We are addressing an important report on future food production in a country where food production may be much more demanding than in the countries around us, and in many of the countries with which we want to compare. But access to high-quality, safe food is important for people, and people have great faith in Norwegian food production and Norwegian food. Therefore, they also largely end up in Norwegian food production. What we have been presented is a good report, which has become even a little bit better through the majority voting that is being discussed here today. There is no doubt that the message is ambitious. Maintaining self-sufficiency at current levels, as a population increases, is an ambitious goal for Norwegian food production in the years to come. In 16 years we will pass six million people; a few days ago we passed five million. It tells us very easily about the challenges of meeting such an objective as the agricultural notification actually sets, and that is the main objective of the communication. It's visionary, it's ambitious, it's bringing Norwegian agriculture on, and it also demands quality in producing food in Norway. There's no doubt about it. It's not contradictory either. I have not heard a single representative anywhere who has said that the message in that area is not too ambitious – not one comment on it. Some people think that maybe we should go a little further, but they don't dare to use the word and say that what's in this big message is too little ambitious. I interpret that as the government has put forward a very ambitious big message about increasing food production as a growing population. In addition, it is an incredibly good quality in Norwegian agriculture that we have agriculture throughout the country. Farming throughout the country — or using the whole country for food production — with varied opportunities is a quality I think we should be proud to be able to continue in Norway. It means living communities, it means opportunities for complementary industries, and it means – not least – the ability to use the whole country. We're going to be proud of that in the country we live in, because it's not natural that we actually use the whole country, neither for food production, for housing, nor for other types of activity. Things are connected, and I think that's a good way to get ahead in the big message we're dealing with right now. The most important thing to achieve the objectives in the years to come is to call on the Norwegian agricultural model, which is very clear from the Storing Communication, and which has some important pillars in it. Perhaps the most important thing is the relationship with import protection, that one is willing — admits willingness — to use import protection in the years to come in order to produce food according to the objectives that lie there. It's one of the most important pillars of the Norwegian food model. In addition, it is to maintain and develop further the agricultural agreement, where the industry negotiates with the State and agrees on the framework conditions for the coming year, also an important pillar to protect, if a wish to maintain Norwegian agricultural production in the years to come. In addition, some of what has been the central debate recently, and which may be overplayed a little, is to maintain the role of cooperatives as managers of the market organisations, a pillar of the Norwegian food model, and in producing food and using the whole country as a prerequisite for producing food. When I hear the debate and hear the change of lines between the representative Nesvik and the representative Haugen, I am somewhat afraid. When one of the great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great. There are unique qualities in the Norwegian food model and in the Norwegian system. When I hear the representative of Bredvold talking about the committee's trip to Brazil, where the go and the sky went in one, I end up with – what to say – the description. But I do not agree with the description that he goes on in the extension of it, that it has in Brazil, an unregulated agriculture, can be transferred to Norway. Because here, there is no going heaven and going in one, there is a significant difference between Norway and Brazil. Release the farmer, yes, that means that a stripping of the agricultural agreement will take 7-8 billion. kr over the state budget for transfers to the agricultural industry and reduces or eliminates import protection. Then there is no free slip by the farmer, but it is free slip – we agree on that. There won't be farmers left with such a policy. There may be a few by way of exception, but I don't think they would call themselves farmers. So to the Right, which I think is unclear. They take with one hand and give with the other. I have not received an answer. How will there be more profitability and productivity through the Higher-Right Alternative Farm Message? Now one has talked a lot about giving tax credits to Norwegian agriculture. If we add up the numbers in the Right Alternative Farm Message, we're going to get about 800 million. kr, but they're going to remove 2 billion. kr every year in relation to the State budget – SEK 1.2 billion. kr, maybe 1.5 billion. kr, from the Norwegian agricultural industry. How will it contribute to increased productivity, increased profitability? We need some answers to that. The right is extremely unclear, and I am absolutely convinced that they choose to be unclear because they actually maintain the traditional entrance to Norwegian agriculture that they have, which means a Progress Party Light version where they will weaken import protection. They will gradually eliminate transfers to agricultural and food production in Norway, and they justify it with tax relief as the solution for profitability, as they do in all other contexts. This is a good example. So one is going to be 800 million. kr at the same time as one takes a minimum of 1,2 billion. kr. It's Right-wing Agriculture Policy. The right is unclear as regards import protection. I have to ask: will the Right use the import protection to ensure Norwegian food production in the years to come? We have not received an answer to that question. Will they tighten up import protection if this is what is needed to maintain food production in Norway? We need an answer to that. The role of market regulator through the cooperative model has some elements in itself. It shall assume the obligation of reception and of universal service. I have to ask the right: shall this be maintained? The agricultural agreement and the ratio to the target price are fully relevant to the current market regime. Will it be continued in the Right way of thinking about market regulation in the future? We should be able to get some answers through this debate. Those who are most close to the government parties – and I am very pleased about that – are Christian People's Party. I think it's great that the Christian People's Party on behalf of agriculture is ambitious and visionary. Our starting point is that, in addition to that, we should be realistic and predictable, and the Norwegian agricultural industry should believe in what is in the staging message and the setting, so that they can invest and think about the future with the predictability that we will implement what we are now saying. That's why we haven't been able to go as far as the Christian People's Party has said they will, but if the space of action says we can do it when one year, two years, or three years have passed, it's not against our will to fulfill it. But I think they – especially since they refer to their own party as the new peasant party – should give us a guarantee that in any way, in any debate, they will leave the policy they have launched through this vote. Finally, the best thing for Norwegian agricultural policy will undoubtedly be to vote in favour of the big message that exists – to go for the majority position that has been drawn up through the work of the Committee. That is what is the main guarantee of agriculture in the years to come — in addition to voting in favour of proposal No. 27, taken up by Arne L. The hau on behalf of the government parties, which is a framework for the Norwegian agricultural model.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1205	The speakers who now have the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1208	I've read a thought-provoking book called "Can agriculture feed the world?" written by Christian Anton Smedshaug. I would recommend everyone to read that book -- especially those who believe that the market can solve most of it here in society. We can say that the demand for food is increasing far, far faster than the offer. At the same time, we know that the production of agricultural products will be more difficult due to changes in the climate. We also have to bear in mind that the number of people on the planet is increasing at a very fast pace, as many people have been involved. This tells us that we have to take care of the food soil, in the districts and on those who can run the farm. So this is about the production of the world's most important resource – food. Throughout Norway, we have good opportunities for producing clean and safe food, but we need to take into account both climate and topography when developing our agricultural policy. This means that the state has to take responsibility for ensuring production, and that we have to have regulations that allow farmers across the country to produce with income that is otherwise in society. If we are to be able to recruit young people for this important industry, both income and employment conditions must be attractive. I myself come from Troms County, which despite its location far north is a very important agricultural group. No one has to tell me that production here is unnecessary, although we cannot compete with agriculture any longer south in efficiency and in the number of harvests etc. Agriculture in Troms is struggling, and a working group with representatives from TINE, Innovation Norway and the County of Troms has gone through the situation. They conclude that the production of cows’ milk in Troms is strongly downwards, that 40 pst. by producers, it will have ceased operations in 2015 and its production will fall by 25 pst. if this trend is not reversed. This is a very serious situation which can only be resolved by even stronger instruments, where recruitment, competence, investment, employment, the economy and strong import protection are at the forefront. I hope and believe that the present big message can help to give agriculture a new one throughout the country. We have a common responsibility to secure the future of agriculture and its existence throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1221	The programme of the Centre Party establishes that the main task for Norwegian agriculture is to produce safe and clean food, and thereby ensure that Norway takes part in the responsibility for international food security. The programme also states that Norway has an obligation to use its land resources to strengthen food production in a world with an increasing population. This message provides the basis for achieving these objectives. If we are to achieve a goal of increasing the production of food and increasing the degree of maritime supply, the income opportunities for the farmer are, of course, very important. Nobody produces food just because they think it's polite. Farmers must see that the effort they make is wasted in the form of income. Many of the income opportunities lie in the design of the agricultural agreement and that we have at all times the possibility of an agricultural agreement. In addition to several other factors, the farmer’s own expertise is important in terms of income opportunities, and at the end of the day, those who are going to buy food in a high-cost country also have to pay for what it costs. Since I'm on the Church, Education and Research Committee, I'd like to promote knowledge and competence and what it has to do with agriculture and income opportunities. To achieve an increased production target, the message says: ‘There is a need for skilled farmers, good operational management and good agronomic competence.’ Creating motivation for young people entering the industry is important. A future profession in which you work too poorly is not motivating — just as the Council of State said. But a profession that is valued in the general public, and that promotes quality and effort, will appeal. In this way, the most recent advertising of the Community is a good, fun and simple example of the fact that we both possess and need different skills. All farmers are unique. That also means they're very different. None are averages. Farms are as different as we are in this room. We have different skills, we work different ways, we spend different times on different things, and we get different results. Some achieve a lot, some achieve a little, and some are satisfied with what they achieve. A farmer with 150 tons in the milk quota can make more money than another farmer with 150 tons, sail if the subsidies can be the same. There are many aspects that play – including the farmer’s knowledge of his or her profession. I am pleased that the agricultural notification focuses so much on knowledge, not only in the individual producer, but also in the food industry, in advisers, bureaucracies and in research. It is necessary for sustainable agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1239	In good tradition, the agricultural notification has been subject to differing views on the best benefits for Norwegian agriculture. Today's debate shows that the difference between the right-hand side and the government is great. As a representative of our northernmost country, it is therefore reassuring to note that the majority in this Chamber will continue to have agriculture in Finland, among others. by strengthening the commitment to the many opportunities offered by farming in Arctic regions. Unlike the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, the government is showing that the belief in Norwegian food production throughout the country lives well. It undertakes, inter alia, to: to the districts. When the head of Finnmark Bondelag, Ola Tangen, is largely satisfied with the message, it indicates that we have met well in many areas. Agriculture in our northernmost part of the country, among others. in Finnland, has been through major rationalisation and efficiencies. We see it, among other things. visible in multi-site joint operations and major units. Despite these structural changes, there is still a great need to renew Finland’s agriculture, among other things. with new operational buildings. I had a meeting with the manager of Finnmark Bondelag for a while back, and there were two things he was busy about, and that after his vision hangs closely together. It was what was about recruitment and better framework conditions for renewing operating buildings and means of production. The message was clear: in order to obtain the necessary recruitment, it must be possible to live from the use, even after the necessary investments have been made. It requires political action, as in the last State budget, where the food production levy, among other things, was removed, and in the Communication, where it becomes apparent that tax rules and investment instruments will also be looked at to improve the ability to develop modern and viable units in Finnmark. So to another important industry for Finnmark, namely reindeer farming. The councils were within this in their articles. I am therefore not going to repeat what he said, except to say that I am behind the measures that have been taken – and not least will be done – to get a reindeer feed on an ecological balance. But it is important to realize that the presentation of the challenges in industry is not as unhealthy as one can get the impression of through the media. Very many practitioners are doing well, and in particular we find these in East Finland, as the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen was in his post. I agree with him that the basis for further developing the reindeer operation in Finnmark is absolutely present. But the challenges we face in parts of Finnmark must be solved. What should and can be done was the Council of State inside. That some of the measures may be painful, we have received feedback, but it is important to show action. The agricultural message we are discussing today has a title that can be starved of, and as a deposit representative from Finnmark, I want the food table to be covered with the homeworkers dishes both from reindeer farming and from Arctic agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1265	Right-wing agricultural policy makes it clear that we have faith in ownership as an important principle for agriculture. It is also a statement of confidence for farmers, by giving them the opportunity to use their knowledge and skills to manage their property in a way that enables them to transfer the farm to the next generation in a better condition than when they themselves have had it. It is an administrative principle that agriculture can be proud of and that is most visible in the Right Alternative Farm Message. I want to focus on the forestry section, especially, in my article. We see in Norwegian forests that forest resources are increasing sharply, while we have had what we can call a stable low level of yield. So we have a constant accumulation of forest resources, which can provide great opportunities to create both extra activity and additional income for agriculture. On the right, the government would have liked to have been even more clear about describing the increased desire of the authorities to facilitate the increase in crop yields in Norway. It would, of course, be positive for forest owners and the forestry industry, especially at a time when we have seen this winter that the forest industry has been severely cut down, with major losses. Most recently, we've read about it this week. The fact that the authorities could make it clear that they want to increase the yield and facilitate it is not an input from the Right to influence the supply side of a market-regulated industry, but on the contrary to show the will of the authorities to those who want to or are interested in investing in the forest industry – that they have a resource base and a resource access, industrially, which makes it interesting to invest in the industry. There are many things that we could grasp in this debate, and that more have been involved. But finally, it is quite thoughtful that when more of the representatives of the government parties spend most of their time criticising the Higher Agricultural Policy, it is, in my view, a sign that one is weak on one's own policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1278	The debate on agricultural policy is one of the most important debates we have here on the Stortinget. The fact that there is no greater interest in the theme among many voters and in the media does not reflect the fact that it is not important, but perhaps that in a rich country that Norway is taking the food for granted. For so long, we have the advice and the ability to import the food we can't or afford to produce ourselves, and we're lulling into a notion that this is going to last forever. It doesn't. The task therefore becomes clear: we need to ensure national, sustainable and safe food production, and we need strong and diverse agriculture throughout the country. In short, we need to use all resources to achieve the highest level of self-sufficiency. In my view, self-storage rates are a better word than self-sufficiency. It is important that as much food as possible is produced from Norwegian resources, Norwegian roughage and with the use of pastures. Of course, we're going to produce chicken and white meat here to land, but we're not going to have to pursue a policy where power-feed-based production competes for roughage-based production because of price differences. Norwegian consumers use relatively little of their income on food. This gives us the opportunity to better target agricultural policy in the future with different means of action, the aim being to increase the income of the farmer and to ensure good, safe and sufficient food for the future. This debate on the future of agriculture clearly shows that there are several different realities in the hall. This gap consists of different perceptions of the value of a national food production. This is what I say about all the parties, including the Progress Party and the Right, claim that they focus on a Norwegian food production in the future. It's their argument that isn't credible, as I see it. The former speaker, Anders B. Werp, said that we spend a lot of time criticizing their policies. I'm not going to do that. I mean that the words they say speak for themselves. For me as a representative of the Central Party, this is a good day. It is a central party council that has presented this big message on behalf of a red-green government, showing clear ambitions for a better agricultural policy in the future. What's going on is to make sure that these ambitions and intentions are transformed into action. There is something that says that well done is better than well said. The centre party should work hard to ensure that what is well said in the message is done well in the years ahead. Then I hope that the voters and the media will see more fully the value of this work. We in the Centre Party have an approach to agricultural policy based on this: people need food and always have to have food access is not stable a national food production is necessary for the highest possible degree of self-storage the country must use the necessary tools to ensure a living agriculture throughout the country I am pleased to continue working for agriculture in the future on behalf of a party that is particularly concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1312	There is a broad consensus in this room that food production should be increased. But if we're going to discharge our responsibility to produce food, we can't continue to destroy the most important prerequisite for food production, that's the food soil. Although we have clear targets and reinforced measures to slow development, the decline of the country's best food soil continues at a high pace. In 2011, more than 6,000 Decorative Lands were redispatched. It is still well above the goal of halving the degradation set by the Bondevik government in 2004. Not surprisingly, the pressure on the food world is greatest around the largest cities, such as Oslo, Trondheim and Stavanger. In these regions, we have some of the best food soils in Norway. It is regrettable that my own county, Rogaland, tops the statistics of the counties that re-dispose most of the food resources. In 2011, we contributed in Rogaland with over 16 p.m. of all re-disposals. With 989 dekar, it means that the county is building up considerably more than the next state on the list, which is Buskerud. This county has increased its share of total decline in recent years. The rate of decline is faster and more extensive than the key objectives set. Rogaland has major challenges related to strong growth. Unfortunately, much of the best agricultural land is close to cities and agglomerations. The agricultural area is falling steadily and is now below 10 million decaries. In Norway, only 3 pst. of the total area under cultivation, against 11 pst. on a global basis. Therefore, I do not understand that the government cannot put in stronger legal instruments to take care of the food soil for future generations. It's the best food land in Norway that runs out of production at a high rate. The Christian People's Party does not want to prohibit redisposal. It is sometimes imperative to allow it to safeguard other vital social interests. However, on the basis of the policy results, we need to ask at regular intervals who should have what access to redispatch and to what extent. Now is the time to renew and strengthen the aim of 2004 to halve the degradation of the food soil – not just to continue it, as the government has mentioned in the Agriculture Communication. This is about our responsibility to care for the earth for the best for future generations. We must protect, as has been said earlier here today, the dining room for our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1330	Welcome to the table is a big message that is especially important. It points out the direction of Norwegian agriculture and forestry, taking into account the fact that there are large-scale sectors. Sun and safe food produced in Norway is a good thing for all of us. Agriculture plays an important role in the development of a more healthy and proper diet, which is an essential element of public health work. The industry is also of crucial importance for maintaining a diverse food industry and for living throughout the country. The open and beautiful cultural landscape we like to show to the tourists who come here also depends on us maintaining a viable agriculture across the whole country. Both our geographic location and the Norwegian cost level give us great challenges to doing so. The message we are handling today gives a good picture of it – while pointing forward to the industry. I am pleased that the notification is so offensive in the case of Norwegian forestry. There is optimism in forestry, as I experience it, despite the fact that important forestry companies such as Follum and Peterson are shutting down because of the lack of demand for newspaper paper. It's sad in many ways, and it's a big challenge for the forest industry, which we have to take the most seriously. In the coming years, it is more important than ever that we pay great attention to research and development in the sector and to conversion and innovation projects that provide opportunities for new industries and energy production based on forest raw materials. We see such transformation and innovation in several places in the country – whether in Eastfold or in Trondelag. This is innovation we can't afford to let go of us, and I trust that we're able to get tools in place, so that we can build up under all the innovation that we're now seeing within the sector. But we're dependent on having company owners who want to be involved and invest in a new future. Without it, government funds are short. Wood processing and the wood-loading industry depend on raw materials. In Norway, we have many small forest owners who do not cut their forest and who do not start planting in the pastures. It's a big challenge. I am pleased that the message is so clear on this challenge, and that one sees the opportunities that lie in the motivation and guidance of each forest owner for harvesting the forest in an environmentally sustainable way, that the most mature forest is taken out, and that new forest is planted. The responsibilities of municipalities for guidance are clear, but there is often a lack of both professional competence and resources for this work to function properly. Professional environments need to increase in number, and cooperation between local, regional and state levels needs to be further strengthened if we are to succeed in the important work of making small forest owners take out forests and new plants at a time when one does not see the huge economic benefits of cutting off forests. I assume that there is now speed on this work after all the attention that has been around the problem, and that the Council of State is now very concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1345	The long-awaited agricultural message is now ready for debate here in the United Kingdom. Slow releases due to government disputes have caused an entire industry to be watched and not given an important control signal that this message should give. One would both hope and believe that the government party had disputed before they sent out the message, and that the government could speak with a tongue about the future of Norwegian agriculture. Now, instead, there is a full fire in the rose camp, with open-minded dispute between the Labour Party and the Centre Party and inside the Centre Party, strong double communication and, not least, attempts to get focus away from their own problems. Committee Leaders Aasland and other red-green politicians try to reverse Right's alternative agricultural message and scare-mongering that Right's agricultural policy will destroy rural agriculture, also see that the government party is fully on the defensive in this matter. In contrast to all the other parties on the Grand Duchy, the right has its own alternative agricultural message, which shows in a good way what kind of agricultural policy the Right wants to pursue in the future. The right has done this in constructive dialogue with the agricultural organisations and in close contact with our local politicians. The result has been an alternative agricultural message that points out a new course, with the aim of increasing and more efficient production that can improve the profitability of the active farmer and increase the competitiveness of the industry. Right-wing agricultural policy will facilitate a gradual and responsible change in the framework conditions for the agricultural industry, which takes into account long-term planning both for the farmer and for the food industry. In the Right's alternative agricultural message, it is also not clear that the Right wants the state to continue with economic support for the agricultural industry, but that it should be more targeted and less bureaucratic. For the Right, it is also important to pursue a general tax policy that strengthens the farmer as an entrepreneur. The new investment fund that Right wants to introduce is a good example of that. In the Right’s alternative agricultural message, it is also not clear that import protection is a pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy and that there must be a market regulator in agriculture, but that there is a desire for a thorough review of today’s schemes. For the Right, it is also important to eliminate unnecessary regulation and strengthen the private ownership of the farmer. It will be very important to create new optimism and progress in agriculture. I am proud that Right has worked so thoroughly with agricultural policy for many years, and that we can present our own alternative agricultural message. As former spokesperson in a small municipality of agriculture in Sogn and Fjordane, I am also confident that right-wing agricultural policy will be well adapted to the agricultural industry in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1366	In a world that is starving, Norway has both a national and a global responsibility to ensure food security for its citizens. That is why I am pleased that there has been a big message about agriculture and food policy with the most ambitious production targets ever. The aim is to increase Norwegian food production by 20 pst. over a 20-year period. In order to increase the production of food from Norwegian agriculture, resources need to be put into use where they are located, through strong agriculture throughout the country. The centre party and government have agriculture all over the country as their goal. Regional disparities, both challenges and opportunities, shall be addressed in the design of agricultural policy instruments. A more regionally adapted agricultural and food policy is achieved through a clear rural profile in the national schemes. It is quite another way of farming in the eastern part of the world than, for example, agriculture in the eastern part of the world. in Finnmark or in the mountain areas of South Norway, where I come from. Agricultural policy must reflect the great tension from small mountain farms to great use on the Jären. Both are equally important for Norwegian food production and it must be possible to feed on both small and large uses. We have to use the resources where they exist. It is therefore important that the Communication states that the rural profile should be strengthened in areas where development has been worrying. This applies to parts of Agder, Telemark, the West, North Norway and the mountain regions of South Norway. The centre lot is concerned that profitable grass-based food production and grazing should continue to be the main instrument for the use of the grassland and for the prevention of restocking. That is why I am pleased that a unanimous committee decides that production requirements should continue to be linked to the cultural landscape grant, which prevents increased rent costs and strengthens the active farmer. With a measure of increased food production, the use of landscape management should not be encouraged by grants without the use of resources for food production for an ever-growing population. Exploitation of pasture resources is an important contribution to Norwegian food production, but grazing resources allow more than a doubling of current grazing. In other words, we have a lot to go on. It is therefore gratifying to see that the notification indicates an increase in the use of set-aside. The government will facilitate viable farming based on land use in general and in line with predatory policies. The agreement on predators facilitates greater predictability of the nutrition and reduced loss of grazing animals. It is wise that the Food Safety Authority should now pay attention to following up the conciliation and that no decision on grazing can be taken. Agriculture is the bearer's column for us to have activity and housing throughout the country. In many places, the ring-effects are greater than the direct employment represented by the industry. I'm proud to join in and present this communication on sustainable agriculture across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1387	Being a food producer must be one of the most meaningful things you can do. It must be the primary task of the farmer, and that is what gives the farmer professional pride and perhaps even the most joy. We need more food in Norway as the population increases. Therefore, it is very good that the agricultural notification states that the main objective of Norwegian agriculture is to produce food, and that Norwegian agriculture should increase production as the population grows. I think that increasing food production has to be done largely by using roughage and pastures. After taking over in 2005, the government has clearly strengthened the economy of this production and must continue to do so. But agriculture has so many roles and tasks. It will take care of the settlement, living settlements and the cultural landscape – make sure we use the entire country. The formulation of agricultural policy must, of course, take account of this. Therefore, regulation is necessary, the establishment and operation of agricultural property must be imposed on the owners to some extent, it must be managed, subsidies must be directed, we must have a channelling, we must have a geographical distribution of production, so that we can make the best use of the resource base, and it must be possible to operate agriculture in the mountain areas as well as in the central agricultural area. Yes, it is actually right, in my view, to go even further in separating and facilitating extensive and intensive agricultural production. From here in the north, agriculture needs transfers, incentives and regulations. So it is good that the message and the number of people in the setting are about the Norwegian agricultural model, with annual agricultural negotiations and import protection and with a varied usage structure across the country. Release agriculture, says someone in the debate. The rightmost one is left dependable. Farmers are self-employed, and many think that they should have bigger arms. I do not ignore the fact that there may be some positive aspects to it, but the consequences of reducing or removing transfers and regulation would of course be a strong centralisation of agriculture. We would not be able to maintain agriculture, for example. mountains, pastures would not be exploited. Both inland and outland wanted to grow again. Atgrowth is a big enough problem today. We want to use the whole country, not just for people to get an offer where they are and want to live, but it is the exploitation of natural resources and opportunities across the country that provide value creation and thus well-being in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1402	The previous speaker began his article by saying that it was particularly useful to produce food. I think it is meaningful, but I would also like to say that it is most useful to do book trading, to sit in the box at Rimi or – as some of us do – to work in politics. Together, we are building the country in different areas. This is a special area, which we have today received an invitation to discuss in the United Kingdom on the basis of the notification of agriculture. There's a lot of descriptions here that we can connect to. But we might have a better basis for Bigges' discussion if you'd have looked at what I'd call the interesting issues, for example. how best to prepare the industry for a different situation, with greater competition both in agriculture and in the food industry. I dare say that today's situation is not entirely satisfactory for consumers, taxpayers and the most enterprising farmers. The agricultural policy management system for which the Council of State Breck is an excellent spokesman is a positioning game between politicians, agricultural organisations and agricultural bureaucrats, which has promoted its special interests quite skillfully, but which has not always been entirely consistent with the interests of its citizens overall. Right wants an adjustment of the instruments over time and the abolition of mechanisms that lead to misuse of resources or inefficient use of resources. A rather concrete example of this is that we stimulate overproduction, which through market regulation and production regulation is transformed into overcapacity, labour interconnection, capital and areas with weak or negative returns. The agricultural policy objectives are constantly diffuse and unclear, and are often used in retrospect to legitimise and defend the inefficient use of resources. The right-hand alternative proposal, which is based on the reality we have, and where we see the benefit of a gradual and agreed conversion, is aimed at unlocking the great potential of agriculture to unleash its potential as a sector for increased value creation. Conversion from budget support that distorts competition – so-called yellow and blue aid, among insiders – can thus be reduced in favour of schemes that are not distortive, so-called green aid. At the same time, it is also a first step to ensure that market regulation, which will still be part of the system for some time, takes place at a greater arm's length than today. It is more than unfortunate that companies currently assigned the market regulatory role are in competition with other suppliers. We have been found by court decisions against TINE in Synnøve Finden's case that market power has been abused. It creates a justified mistrust of the competitors and the public that there is impenetrableness that makes it difficult to control how that power is actually applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1417	I am pleased that the Stortinget now has a report on agriculture that has a positive attitude towards Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production to those degrees. The challenges in the industry are great, and the goal of a 20 pst. increases in food production are ambitious. It assumes that we have an agricultural policy that facilitates food production across the country. It is necessary to pursue policies to improve the economy in all parts of the industry. This must be followed up in the forthcoming agricultural negotiations. It is also very important that we have the capacity to take care of the resources that provide the basis for food production. The food soil is under strong pressure. In 2011, about 6,000 deer of cultivated land were redispatched. Rogaland County is the worst, with nearly 1,000 targets being reduced. Although this is lower than the previous year, there has to be a goal of further strengthening soil protection. I'm assuming that the message will continue the decline in degradation. A number of different proposals have been made in the debate on soil protection. One is to demand new cultivation elsewhere in order to compensate for the earth that is being built up. Another suggestion I've caught up with is that the food soil should be moved. These are simple suggestions that can compensate for something. Most importantly, however, it is not possible to build up both cultivated and arable land. I assume that the government will make it more difficult for the municipalities to re-dispose cultivated and arable land. It is also announced a separate State planning guideline for soil protection. This will be an important tool to further limit degradation. We don't have land shortages in Norway, we have a lack of understanding of the importance of taking care of this eternal resource in the face of other important purposes. There are many other topics that could have been involved in the debate. I am concerned about further developing the very profitable fur industry we have in Norway. I am concerned about pursuing a differentiated agricultural policy, but I also see that a redisposal through reductions related to geography, as we saw a few years ago, must not happen again. I would also like to point out freight arrangements as a particularly important measure for rural agriculture. The value of agriculture in Rogaland is about 6 billion. kr. Only the oil industry is bigger in the county. For both of these industries, the government has submitted very offensive messages. I would like to describe agriculture with the title of the petroleum notification: ‘Industry for the future’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1434	Agriculture is a highly politicised industry, a controversial and ideological industry in which market liberalism often conflicts with regulatory policies. Few policy areas then demonstrate the distinction between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy. The balance between market regulation and regulation, which has been a characteristic of Norwegian agricultural policy, is now threatened by right-wing parties, and then, of course, I include the Left, which will weaken import protection and market regulation, repeal the agricultural agreement and reduce transfers to agriculture. In reality, this means that they will limit Norwegian agriculture to the most productive areas of Trøndelag, Jären and the central east region, and will limit the influence of farmers’ organisations on their own economic development. So at least we all know what we have to wait for if these parties win the big shot in 2013. On 27 March, on the day on which the Economic and Social Committee presented its position on the agricultural notification, the agricultural organisations presented their views on the plenary session outside the Grand Duchy. Those of us who visited them were awarded good Norwegian agricultural products. Some of us were even satisfied with a six-pack with a missing egg symbol that we have now passed 5 million Norwegians, and were reminded that it only goes 16 years before we add another 1 million to our population. This is an increase in Norwegian agricultural output of 20 pst. a very ambitious and demanding target over the next 20 years. During the previous great age, the business committee Jan Johansen from Sandefjord visited the Pampas in Argentina. Johansen's farm was 30 000. He had 4,000 cows, of which 1,500 dairy cows, who produced 30,000 litres of milk a day. This is the agricultural sector in which we have to compete in an international free trade in agricultural products. Therefore, Norwegian agriculture is dependent on strong import protection. A majority in the United Kingdom wants agriculture in all parts of the country. We want living settlements, and we're willing to pay for it. Nevertheless, I believe that we must embark on changes in the use of instruments, regardless of whether or not a WTO agreement on trade in agricultural products becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1443	I will first address my three proposals and briefly justify them, because these are important pillars of future agricultural policy. My first proposal is to increase the degree of maritime supply of food from Norwegian agriculture. Food safety in Norway has gradually declined from the early 1990s, and it continues in the wrong direction. This is contrary to FAO policy, which has been adopted by 191 Member States. Food safety is below 40 pst in 2010. and are reduced annually. Historical experience suggests that this cannot develop. The reason is imports, among others. of cereals for human consumption and for human consumption. I ask the assembly to read the Norwegian Joint Purchases Opinion to the Business Committee from 21 December 2011, which, on a professional basis, describes this correctly, in my opinion. One must learn from history, from international experience. Suffering about Norway has had enough fish and herring throughout history has not been enough. When there was too little bread and milk, there was rationalization. It's no coincidence, it's a historical fact, and we don't have to take care of ourselves to make ourselves dependent on the food of others. The degree of maritime supply needs to be increased and plant production needs to rise. It requires larger areas and larger crops. Prices have to be settled in order to get to it. The prices of power-feed must be raised so that for a normal farmer it is profitable to use own grass rather than imported power-feed. This is the whole foundation of Norwegian agricultural policy. Furthermore, investment grants must be made to improve areas through re-cultivation, burial and better use of land. It is true that the grain is the joker in the agricultural policy of every country. If you import cereals, you reduce food safety. My second proposal is on better import protection. We have the opportunity to improve import protection through the commitments we agreed on when the WTO was established. According to Input. S No 65 for 1994-1995, under point 2.1.2.3 The basis for calculating customs duties is as follows: ‘In each case it is the rate of duty which gives the highest amount of customs duty to be applied at the time of entry.’; It is sad that the red-green government has not used it, because it is absolutely vital to ensure that Norway's agility between income for agricultural work, in the same way that we ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions for employees by going into those areas. I will explain the third proposal in the next round. It goes on that we have to close the income gap so that it becomes attractive for the talented youth to train and enter the industry. It is absolutely essential for future food and agricultural production.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1467	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1470	After hearing the previous article and seeing the suggestions from Per Olaf Lundtigen, I cannot avoid thinking about Per Spielmann. You replace the cow and don't fail, but the government cooperation again. Per Olaf Lundtigen speaks on behalf of many who would want more binding wording and more concrete decisions today. Agriculture is important in maintaining food security, value creation, housing and cultural landscapes. Therefore, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to go into the work on the message and try to get more concrete proposals and more concrete commitments – not just beautiful words. Unfortunately, in cooperation with the government, we failed to achieve what we wanted. I'm sorry, because there had been proposals that had contributed to a better agriculture. Agriculture is particularly important for rural areas and contributes to the creation of value added and housing. Especially in my region, Agder, there are special challenges. What I am pleased about in the message is the district profile. It points out that the instruments targeted at the different regions need to be strengthened. I expect that regionalisation will ensure that we take better advantage of the advantages of the different regions. It can also provide good cooperation with county and municipal politicians. In my own county, Aust-Agder, they have even made their own agricultural message, which I suppose the Minister of Agriculture has received. This shows some of the good work that has come out of the farm communication. Here you're just taking up the different advantages that my county has. An area that has always occupied me is recruitment, and then the level of income is crucial. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will have a clearer commitment to revenue and investment. I notice that many of my comrades of the same age as they are now facing the crucial moment when they are going to decide whether to take over the farm at home, choose not to do so because they see that they are not competitive with other industries – although they have a desire to take over the farm. I can't avoid going into something that was mentioned earlier in the debate. After hearing many articles, I was surprised at the replacement of the line after the post by the representative Irene Lange Nordahl of the Central Party. There she was clear that all the points that we from the Christian People's Party asked about, which the Centre Party adopted at its national meeting last year – the income target, increased food production, enhanced soil protection, and improving and increasing investment funds – were fulfilled in this communication. I don't think that's the case after hearing the statement to Per Olaf Lundtigen, having seen the uprising that has been, and all the good, but little, obliging formulations that lie here after the decision here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1489	As I said in my first post, we believe that the Sami reindeer has a great potential for increased value creation. Reindeer meat is an arctic delicacy that is of the most exclusive meat that Norway has to offer. I agree with the representatives Kåre Simensen and Frank Bakke-Jensen who said that we have many very good reindeers. It's important to underline, because there's often a lot of black paint in this room when we talk about reindeer operations. I agree with what the two representatives mentioned said there. Since the adoption of the new reindeer management law in the previous period, the time has allowed to clarify the rules of use and to adopt upper reindeer rates in all districts. That work is now done, and the industry is in the middle of the scale adjustment. There are large regional differences in the economic outcome and the slaughter weight. I think we must be able to say that there is an overall committee that is impatient to see the outcome of the work that is now being done. It is good that the government now commits to streamlining and simplifying the public administration of reindeer management. But I would like to stress that the reorganisation must take place in good dialogue with industry, the Sameting and society, for the rest. I have to say that developments in Norwegian agriculture are much more positive than some in the room want. I have noticed that the Right now says that there is a lot of good in Norwegian agriculture, but when a reader sees the Right Farm Message, unfortunately one sees that the Right might add up to a slightly smarter tone in the public space, but I think the policy is really the same. They will have major changes in Norwegian agricultural policy. The majority in this room is of the opinion that we need to continue and develop the policy pursued now, following the turnaround of the government shift in 2005. Norwegian agriculture does not need a price change, but a further development of the price set by this government. Under the red-green regime, farmers have had a positive income development and a positive increase in productivity, a decline in the number of uses that have fallen, and soil protection has been strengthened. It must be said that the objective of agriculture across the country has been achieved. I'm referring to the investigation by Professor Reidar Almås at Building Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1501	I would say that the debate we have today is one of the most important in the wholesale period. Food security deserves more space on the political agenda, in a world where very many are hungry when they go to bed. 'Welcome to the table', says the message. I think it reflects that the country we live in, which we can sometimes view as a little cold and vague and far north, at the same time has some resources that can give us great food experiences. In addition to satisfy us, Norwegian food is also at the top of the world in terms of quality and plant and animal health. The centre party and the government have submitted an agricultural notification which makes it clear that food production is to increase to a large extent and that income trends are to continue to be strengthened. So far, income opportunities have had the same trend as other groups since 2005, measured in crowns, and there is a great contrast to the policy pursued by the right-wing parties in the time before the red-green government took over. It is important to me, as a northern trouser, that this government has reintroduced forest policy. Forests form the basis for an active and profitable forestry and a competitive forest industry, which is important for housing, employment and industrial development in large parts of our country. An active forest management with a view to raising, planting and forestry makes the forest one of the most important tools in climate action. The more forests grow, the more greenhouse gases are absorbed. The forest is a large and significant nature that we have a responsibility to manage on behalf of future generations. Good recruitment to agriculture is essential in order to increase food production. Therefore, agricultural policy must provide young people with confidence, desire and opportunities to invest in agriculture as a profession. It is a political responsibility to participate and provide income opportunities and welfare schemes that allow for a future in agriculture. This responsibility has been taken by the red-green government, both through this communication and through the fact that we are still working to further develop income policy while giving priority to investment funds. But the prospect of income development is not the only thing that needs to be done to improve recruitment, because no one wants to take over a farm if the farm profession has been a burden only to parents. Therefore, it is interesting to look at the studies that have been carried out, among other things. for centres for knowledge and equality, which show that young people gain a greater agricultural interest when both parents are engaged in farm operations. This shows that gender equality and family focus are important in agricultural policy. Here, too, the Minister of Agriculture has been good and has highlighted women as the key to food security and sustainable development in international contexts. There is every reason to be proud of the message that has been presented. The centre party is the largest guarantor of strong and good agriculture in Norway. With the Central Party in government, Norwegian agriculture is gradually getting better framework conditions, and although both ourselves and the industry are impatient, development is progressing in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1523	Sometime in the future, when agriculture finally comes out of the clumsy political goodwill that characterizes today's unrealistic and dreamy policy design, extreme detailed regulation and political governance will be studied as a crown example of how to destroy an industry's growth and competitiveness. The political will to regulate and formulate objectives is always far stronger than the will to pay for it. We see that in agriculture. The share of transfers in GDP is falling, economic optimism is at the bottom, investment willingness and ability is weakened. Politics has painted the industry into a corner, but all policy can deliver is new dreams. This agricultural message is probably an example of that. It is with great wonder that I am listening to a debate in which the government parties do not take into account the results of their own policies. Attacks on those who want to try other solutions shall obviously camouflage a lack of their own results and internal disagreement, leaving to the individual farmer to be a target for a policy that does not work. Agriculture is important to my home country Hedmark. The food industry is important. Industry based on wood processing is important. For a country far away from the oil and its ring-effects, it is important to have offensive, development-oriented framework conditions for the resources that can create activity and activity. Agricultural policy has failed. Forestry is caught by the same regulations and restrictions as agriculture, but without transfers and at the same time having to live in an international market with full open competition. Forestry in Norway is today extremely rational. The development of productivity has been strong, and the industry has developed a profitability based on it. This may also be the reason why a little is placed in the shadow of agriculture, because profitability is obviously not particularly important for government parties in developing industrial policies in Norway. It has to be deregulated. Right-wing tax proposals are aimed at stimulating property transfers, and it is quite important for us to realise the potential of forestry in Norway. I look with amazement at a government that cannot remove the iron grip you have on the industry. So finally a few words about predatory game. This is not a predatory game debate, but the Environment Council has just reduced a sample to evaluate the wolf zone, and I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture to get a little involved. There one has managed to reduce a sample that has three bureaucrats, but no representative from those who have been directly under pressure. It removes any legitimacy from the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1538	I feel that the Right wants to play a lot in agricultural policy, and as I read it, they simply do not take a position on some key agricultural policy issues. Therefore, it is close to asking whether the Right has left the goal of agriculture throughout the country. What kind of basic objectives and instruments is the next Right wants to distance itself from getting closer to the Progress Party in Norwegian agricultural and food policy? We do not receive a response, either in the setting or in the Right's own message. We can, for example: look at what they have to report on market regulation, which is a topic that you have addressed here. The Right Party and the Advance Party state in the preamble that ‘we need a certain adjustment of the market balance’. Furthermore, they believe that the current system, where agricultural cooperatives are market regulators – which is a private scheme – is not appropriate. At the same time, the Right Party and the Advance Party do not want a private scheme to be replaced by a public scheme. To me, it is not obvious what the Right and Advance Party think is a valid solution. I assume that the Right Party and the Advance Party agree that it is a good solution that agriculture is responsible for overproduction – although they have not affected this in the suspension – that is. that the industry itself must take responsibility for any overproduction and that the industry must also be financially responsible for it by paying the turnover tax. It is therefore with amazement that I see that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the vote first propose that the turnover tax be removed, and then, on the following page, propose that it be continued. What does the Right actually mean? If it is removed, does the Right consider that the taxpayers are responsible for the costs of market regulation? It has to be possible for the right to answer that. I also think it is appropriate to mention that it was the only Minister of Agriculture of the Right after World War II, Johan C. Løken, who introduced the principle that agriculture itself is responsible for overproduction in 1982. This is therefore a good regime – introduced by the Right itself – because it gives agriculture a strong incentive to keep markets in balance. So the Right Party and the Advance Party justify some of their scepticism to today's system that ‘The exclusive market transparency of private monopolies shall cease’. I agree that distortion of information can give rise to distortions of competition – let me put it that way. But it is prescribed that agricultural cooperatives have an obligation to disclose all the information they acquire by virtue of their regulatory responsibilities, and I have not recorded much noise about compliance with that provision. Then I also record that the Right does not participate in the Procedural Party's Document 8, which is now under consideration in the Trade Committee, where they propose that today's market regulation be abolished. So the right has to answer in terms of one of the main instruments we have in agricultural policy. The right does not respond, the right creates uncertainty – to a great deal of disadvantage for Norwegian agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1560	I have noticed that a number of speakers from the parties representing the opposition – or the right party – initiated their contributions by pointing out that agriculture is based on good, civic values. I guess that's good. But I notice that the same representatives did not express themselves equally enthusiastically about agricultural cooperation – which may actually be the most important cornerstone of our having the agriculture we have in Norway today, because we have agriculture all over the country, and because we have an agricultural sector that has managed to take care of the small and medium-sized farms in the districts. The lack of enthusiasm for agricultural cooperation is also reflected in the concrete political positions taken by the parties, so saying that one should take from the agricultural cooperative responsibility for market regulation, one not only makes market regulation worse, one will also weaken agricultural cooperation. Other things are that the rightmost part is largely on the line to support those who criticise the Mat Chain Selection settings, an option where a focus is on ensuring that there are no more people in the value chain who take control and values from agriculture. So here it shows that the right hand side is very busy with civic values, but they're not busy with the values that have brought the agriculture where it is today. So I'll talk a little bit about soil protection. Soil protection consists of two things: degradation in central struts and closure in the districts. Destruction in central struts is very many from the opposition who have been busy today. But I notice – I've been in municipal politics for quite a while – that the bourgeois parties, which they like to call themselves, have been at the forefront in order to avoid the quadruple road and car-based malls going to lie in the middle of the best cultivated land. That's why it's important that we get a stronger focus on planning. Then it's the law of planning and building that can be used in a better way to save the cultivated land from carmakers far out on the right. And then I want to talk a little bit about one of the points that Lundtegegen was at, that we need to use national resources and not base Norwegian agriculture on imports of feed. I agree that there's a point we need to focus heavily on. That is why I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee has pointed out that we are monitoring the development of imported feed in relation to nationally produced feed. And then we'll get back to the consequences if evolution goes in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1573	The agricultural notification covers the whole value chain — including the food industry. The food industry employs almost 50,000 people directly and is a major and important industry that few have mentioned in detail today. Primary production and further processing are closely linked and mutually dependent on each other. In the price policy for Norwegian raw materials, attention to the competitiveness of the food industry must be carefully balanced against the income of the farmer. The working party and the red-green will ensure a framework for the food industry that allows competitiveness in relation to imports, including: through the agricultural agreement, and we will pass on the price write-down schemes that alleviate the difference between the competitively excluded RAPing industry. In international negotiations on market relations through the WTO, the EEA and the EFTA, too, the Labour Party will focus on ensuring an import protection that will still allow for action to lead a national agricultural policy that takes care of this balance. The food and drink industry in Norway lives in a market with strong international competition. Maintaining and strengthening competitiveness in the food industry has led to a high level of research and innovation activity in the future. I would like to refer here to the research group Nofima, which has an important role in identifying and exploiting the synergies that exist in research across the blue and green sectors. It is important that Nofima is further developed as a significant player in promoting innovation and competitiveness in the food industry. Knowledge, research and innovation are key words for us to have enough food and safe food. Therefore, the Labour Party is precisely giving priority to continuing to have food security as a research policy objective. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important that, in the future, we also assess measures to improve the framework, so that we can ensure a competitive Norwegian food and drink industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1592	In a world of unstable food supply and high food prices, increased national self-storage is international solidarity in practice. A basic requirement for global food security is that all countries benefit from their natural resources for safe food production. In Norway, not only has a right but an obligation to produce enough, safe and varied food of good quality to ensure its own food security to an increasing population. In order for Norway to meet this objective, we need to facilitate active agriculture throughout the country. This means facilitating sustainable agriculture in all parts of the country. In this context, I would like to draw attention to developments in Western agriculture. The West has good conditions for grass cultivation and grazing and has proud traditions of fruit cultivation. Western agriculture can contribute significantly to the production of food in the years to come and contribute to living cultural landscapes and rural settlements. But then there is a need for political will to achieve this. Key figures from County State show a dramatic decline in agricultural land in Hordaland. From 2000 to 2010, the decrease was 11 pst. – far above the national average of 2,8 pst. The number of enterprises has been reduced by 36 pst. in 10 years. There's a marked decline in the number of dairy cows, and the sheep population is also decreasing. If we continue these developments, Western agriculture will be able to disappear in practice within a few decades. Resilient agriculture in Hordaland requires new schemes so that livestock will pay off. There must be an economy to run with cattle and sheep. One must be able to live by being a food producer in Hordaland. Today, agriculture in Hordaland is characterised by small gardening and low income. There's a small contiguous area with little rational operation. We experience weak recruitment and little processing of agricultural products. We have alarming figures when it applies to the re-disposal of cultivated land. Figures from the State show that there have never been reports of as much re-disposal of agricultural land in Hordaland as in 2010, i.e. contrary to the trend elsewhere in the country. In 2010, Hordaland County stood for 10 pst. of restocked land on a national basis – this is a trajectory that Hordaland only has 2.7 pst. of the total productive agricultural area of the country. We need to reverse the dramatic developments that are happening here. We need a clearer rural profile and a stronger grass-based livestock farming in agricultural policy. Agricultural work needs a boost in income, so that it becomes attractive for young people to grow up to enter the industry. The income gap between those working in agriculture and other groups must be narrowed. The resources needed to increase food security are irreplaceable and spread throughout the country. It is our duty to have an agricultural policy that manages these resources afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1603	In addition to what I highlighted in my first post, I am also very pleased that the focus on food waste has been given a place in the message. When one billion people go hungry, it becomes a paradox that on a global basis it is estimated that half of the food produced becomes food waste, that one third of the food people buy is thrown, and – not least – that if consumers halve their food, it could satisfy the sixth of the earth's population that is now starving. Food waste is the type of waste that has grown fastest in Norway in recent years. Disposal of useful food is also an ethical problem in a global situation where there is food shortage. Then why are we throwing food? Do we misunderstand the date marking, or have we forgotten to smell up to what is moldy and ingenious? The aim must be that all food produced is initially consumed and does not end up as food waste. It is important that Norwegian authorities work with the actors in the food value chain to reduce the amount of food waste. This is also important from a business policy perspective. It is good that this Communication deals with waste and that the government will consider further efforts to reduce the amount of food waste. Finally, I intend to challenge the Torgeir Träldal of the Progress Party. The representative has made strong statements today. You have to hear a lot before your ears go off, like you say up there in the north. Today we have heard the representative Torgeir Tåldal, among others. say that consumers have to flee the country in order to receive food. He has also stated that because of our policies, people around the country are being isolated, and has also compared our policies with the Soviet Union and North Korea. But he's going to end up with a challenge to respond to my line, which I really didn't get an answer to, and explain how he thinks that the Foreground Party's policy could lead to a living agriculture all over the country. Is that freedom for the farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1616	Today’s debate has made it even clearer that there are two different ways of having a Norwegian agricultural policy and belief in Norwegian agriculture. The government parties minus parts of the Centre Party want to continue the policy we have today, which reduces the number of farms in operation and even fewer active full-time farmers. Everything should be managed almost down to the smallest detail – freedom and innovation are not possible. It would be thought that when you look at the numbers I referred to in my main post, you understand that today's agricultural policy is a misguided policy. On the other hand, where, among other things, The progress party is, we have faith in the individual family. The individual owner and the individual user know best how to arrange their everyday life, their operations, and thus live for and from soil and forest. I mentioned the previous visit of the committee to Brazil and the size of the farm, but we also have large farms in Norway that are operated efficiently after Norwegian targets. Together with other farms, with a decoration of today's legislation, they can produce a lot more food. This applies in particular within, for example: meat animal, milk, eggs, chicken and pigs. Even when it comes to growing up land, the possibilities are there, but with the restrictions we have, innovation is almost absent today, unfortunately. We also see that we have a building mass within agriculture that is very tired and not functional for today's use. Norway has many farms — which I have raised several times with the State Council in the Questionnaire — compared to our neighbouring countries. I think that, among other things, is due to just old construction and the lack of finances to clean up. The message contains many words and wordings, but when we ask for three concrete measures to improve Norwegian agriculture, we only get a lot of words back from representatives of the government parties about how pleased they are with the message. It is not enough to be a Norwegian champion in an oral manner when the industry is asking for concrete tools. This lacks the message in relation to what we offer on the civil side. If today's policy continues, there may be no need for more agricultural messages in the future. As a last mention, it can be mentioned that in my neighbouring municipality, Grue, in Hedmark, one of the largest farms is now put out for rent. This means that not only small farms, but also larger farms are struggling, for various reasons, because of current policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1633	It is an honour that the Council of State uses its entire last article to criticise the Right Alternative Farm Message. Let me answer some of this in relation to market regulation. It's true that we haven't presented a complete solution. We don't know all the answers, but we've asked questions about a problem that has to be obvious to a lot of people. If it is the case that the government parties want an answer to everything around this, I recommend voting in favour of our proposal, where we want to review the market regulation regimes to see whether they work well enough for everyone in the value chain, and promote proposals for changes that take account of consumers and equal competition between operators in the industry. It must be a proposal that should definitely be valid for anyone interested in Norwegian agriculture. So until this as the Council of State has now taken up in two articles here today, namely that the Right is unclear about what we want with agriculture all over the country – yes, we are unclear about other things too, I understand, but especially about this. Then I have to say the following: our programme says that the Right will have a profitable agriculture throughout the country. I have not heard that the central government or any extraordinary national meeting has changed anything about it, so it still stands. But there's nothing in our comments or in our alternative agricultural report that we don't want an agricultural policy all over the country. It's the government parties' interpretation of our proposals, which they think will have that effect. It has to be on the account of these parties. That's not something we've said. So to committee leader Aasland, who also believes that the Right is unclear – that is today’s text – and who says: How does the Right Alternatives become more profitable? Yes, we haven't just proposed tax changes, we've looked at the scheme of the grant structure, we're talking about regulatory regimes that can be deregulated, several things that can make it more profitable. But I'd like to return the question. I would like to ask the chairman of the committee what are the concrete instruments in his communication, in the government's communication, which tells us that it will be more profitable for Norwegian agriculture. It's just as big a guess competition as there's a guess competition about what comes out of Right's suggestion. You have to look 10 years ahead, the government is sloppy about the result -- I don't think you should be when you're so little open to alternative thinking as it's shown here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1649	Now that I have asked to speak again, it is because I feel that I get an easy answer from both the Council of State and others in terms of income development. The notification repeatedly states that increased income is the most important measure to increase the recruitment of agriculture. At the same time, income is essential to give future confidence to agricultural actors. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the government stated the following in the message: ‘The government will further develop agricultural incomes and welfare policies based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005.’ [[...]] [[...]] The notification thus states that agricultural operators should have a higher level of income development than other groups. This cannot be interpreted in any other way than to close the revenue gap — and it is positive. But then we read in the same chapter the following: «The government will ensure that agricultural practitioners develop incomes in line with other groups.» [[...]] This is double communication. I'm going to think that it's even consciously double communication. The farmers shall be included in the first part and the Ministry of Finance shall be included in the second part. This is both confusing and unyielding. What does the government really mean? Should the income development of the farmers be as in the last years, or should it be in line with other groups? This deserves to be answered by the actors. There's something called self-crust that you should listen to, because it comes from the heart. There has been no lack of warm condolences from the government parties on the policy that has been pursued by the government in recent years. The government parties and the state councils constantly point to the fact that farmers have had higher incomes than other groups from 2005 – and they have even received praise from the Christian People's Party for that very thing. Increased income is essential to increase recruitment and to improve the future of industry. It also confirms the message. However, the Communication also states, as mentioned above, that ‘the government will ensure that agricultural practitioners are in line with other groups’. [[...]] With this new line, the government is now signaling that agricultural operators have had enough of cake, that they do not need higher income, and that the income gap between farmers and other groups is quite reasonable. We cannot understand this in the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party wants a policy that facilitates the reduction of the income gap between farmers and other groups, but here we have encountered resistance from the government parties. That makes us think there is a need for clarification. Does not the government see the need for increased income in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1669	I am pleased that the government and the bulk of the population are now focusing attention on Norwegian agriculture options rather than the constraints. For a country like my own, Vestfold, with a viable – and I would say innovative – agriculture, this is particularly important. It is not accidental that quality products and brands such as Farm Sand and Stangekylling originate in my county. Nor does it happen that the food industry is one of our most important industries — a food industry that is heavily dependent on local raw materials. This is a state with 4 pst. of our agricultural area, and here we find 19 pst. of the cereals area and 27 pst. of the vegetable area. Just because the conditions for growing cereals and vegetables are not as good in all parts of the country, it is necessary not only to maintain but to further develop both cereal production and vegetable production in the most suitable areas of the country. Agricultural policy is very much linked to the annual agricultural negotiations. Here, through negotiations, the farmers' organisations are involved in the practical formulation of agricultural policy. It's good for the industry, and it's good for the country. However, it is clear that it is not as easy to liquidate large parts of Norwegian agriculture with the agricultural negotiations in place. Therefore, there is a certain logic in the right-hand party attack on the negotiating institute in agriculture. Having said that, I also hope that the agricultural organisations, the farmers' organisations, will contribute to a gradual transition to, or a strengthening of, the grant schemes – grant schemes that are not primarily linked to production. I see clearly the dilemma as this travels, because the subsidy schemes also need to stimulate increased production and profitability – and thus the income of the farmer – if we are to achieve our agricultural policy objectives. It is also necessary to continue the escalation of farmers’ incomes and to ensure the recruitment and investment capacity of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1680	The centre party is engaged in a live agricultural activity throughout the country. That means we have to use the possibilities we have to produce food on the areas that we have. This is also a clear objective of the agricultural communication. The right has now provided its so-called alternative agricultural message. It is largely in line with their comments in the Committee's position, where in most areas they are associated with the Progress Party. This gives a clear picture of the lines of agricultural and food policy. We see clearly that the lines of agricultural policy go between the Red-Green and Christian People's Party on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. In a joint remark in the vote, the Right and the Advance Party say that there is a discrimination between farmers «where cooperatives have a clear influence over the design of the political and framework conditions of the farmers and food industry». On the other hand, on the part of the Centre Party, we would stress that cooperation is essential to ensure the disposal of Norwegian agricultural products and agriculture throughout the country. This will benefit all farmers. The aim of the right agricultural policy is to remove as far as possible quota restrictions, concession limits, increase the focus on large-scale use of subsidies, eliminate agricultural negotiations in their current form and remove the cooperative responsibility for balancing the market. Furthermore, the price level of Norwegian agricultural products shall be gradually reduced in order to adapt to future WTO agreements. Budgetary resources must be greatly reduced, while priority should be given to tax relief. We have heard a lot about this today. The Secretary-General of the Land recently commented on the Right Agricultural Policy: ‘One shall not be a great fortune-teller to see that the Right’s proposal will significantly speed up structural changes, centralisation and concentration of production. The farmer in central areas must therefore run faster, while the farmer in the districts should find another source of income. [[...]] The aim of the right is to increase food production, the instruments that the Right believes are the solution, will give the opposite effect. Centralisation of production will mean lower use of agricultural land in Norway.’» This gives a proper character to the Right Agricultural Policy and underlines that the Right lacks credibility in this area. This has the Center Party noticed, and I expect that agriculture itself also notices this gap between what the Right says and what they actually do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1703	The third proposal I had was to close the income gap between agricultural work and other work. There is no new requirement. It's a fair political demand from farmers up through history. The agriculture minister of the left, Håkon Five, stood for such a provocative agricultural policy against farmers that he fell on his political post on 19 March 1935 at the historic crisis agreement between the Bondepartei and the Workers' Party. It was good for the country that we got a red-green government then. Five are less known as the professional who was central to the establishment of agricultural and forestry surveys in 1910. Five wanted to get figures on income, level and development. It's an important work that's going on today, and here we have an operational review with our 100 year report. It's the state that takes in figures from actual farms – 835 of the best-run farms we have here in the country. So what do those numbers say? They say that for 2010 the family's farm earnings per year were NOK 195 000, i.e. per year, for use with cows' milk and cattle's meat, i.e. NOK 106 per hour. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand why not train and enter such a profession, when it's valued that way. Rarely has the actual situation in agriculture been more pronounced than it is today, and what is said by the state has been greater than it is today. This has to end. It doesn't give you any confidence that there's such a big difference. Further: Right try to say that one must have a new course. The right is completely predictable, fully recognizable, perhaps with one difference: they are unclear today, play on both horses on all important issues, but at one point they are clear – by finally taking the step, so that one should have the company's share company on farm. Thus the representative Gunnar Gundersen will be satisfied, because then one takes away all the obligations of ownership. It's Right's Big Dream: ownership without obligations. Finally, it's good with faith. But that's what we're doing in the church. What we need is to get tools that allow Bendiks H. Arnesen from Kväfjord, the best agricultural area in Troms, to stand on the pulpit of the Stortinge and say: Now there is a change, now there is a policy that is run by a red-green government that respects agricultural work in a different way from what has been so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1714	After all, it must be a relatively high cost for the Minister of Agriculture to sit and listen to the last speech, which in reality meant that the representative Lundtigen had relatively little, not to say any, confidence in what has been provided by the government. That is why three proposals have been put forward by Mr Lundteg. During this debate – now we are approaching, possibly at least, a conclusion – there has been a very strong concern from the red-green side about what would happen after 2013. I realize that if you're in red-green shoes, you're worried about it. But there can be no excuse for not doing more than you have done in 2012. I think you should actively use the concern you might have, to get further, as it was possible when we are now discussing this message. The Christian People's Party, as our main spokeswoman clearly expressed, has had three objectives: to reduce income differences between farmers and other professions, to increase food production and to strengthen soil protection. It was not possible to get on either one, two or three of these points. That's what we think we're looking at. Then to the vote itself. Various proposals have been made in the Chamber. The Christian People's Party then votes in favour of the proposal by the representative Haugen on behalf of the three parties. It's basically a summary of what's in the message. In the case of other proposals, which, to be confused, are quite the same as the Christian People's Party itself has promoted, we are voting in favour of our proposals and are fully in favour of them, and do not contribute to making it unclear by voting in favour of other proposals, even if they are made in good faith. Although that was not good enough for the representative Lundtigen, we acknowledge his strong commitment to the message that is on the table. We see that there is quite a similarity between many of the proposals he makes and those that the Christian People's Party has promoted. But we're doing what we do, we're voting for what we said we're doing, and we think it's the neat thing about this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1723	‘Earth use is an activity which is driven by a complex composition of motifs, many of which are of a non-economic nature.’ This is the Trade Union who writes to us in a recording of new agricultural and food reports. It is well written, because it is precisely this complexity that makes agricultural debates so demanding, so difficult to implement in a good and understandable way – and they are not least interesting because of this. We could have reduced Norwegian agricultural production and related processing industries, to a large extent, and similarly have imported more. Norway has money and not least global market power to that effect by date. It would have freed labour to other more so-called productive industries, and it would immediately have freed a few billions from the state budget for alternative uses. Is this, then, the agricultural policy of the Progress Party? Yeah, I actually think so. The right hand side is a little bit more careful. Here, as in other policy areas for the time being, for tactical or actual reasons, they are somewhat more moderate. At least this should not be the SV's agricultural policy. There is hardly any policy area that needs the red colour and the green colour more than agricultural policy – not least Norwegian agricultural policy – from the following point of view: if we want to increase maritime supply based on our own national, local resources, the solution is not less regulation, more market and more so-called blue freedom. No, the solution is a combination of solid import protection and what can be called a stimulating national internal agricultural policy. In a capitalist market liberal age, there is a strong counter-current policy that must apply to our agricultural policy. This message shows such ambitions – and thank you and the price for it. At the same time, it is not as concrete, as detailed and as binding as you would like. But that's how big messages are. They contribute to the ongoing development of policies, more than highlighting some conclusions or conclusions of the same policy development. That is why I believe and think that it is nice that we have both given, received and will receive recordings that just show how we should proceed in terms of concreteising on the tool side and want to strengthen ourselves on the target page. Much progress has been made here in the good process that has been mentioned by several. I would also like to say that today there are proposals – which do not provoke me, neither the proposals from Per Olaf Lundtigen nor the Christian People's Party – that are just contributions to the further work that we in SV are going to participate in with joy and zeal. Because this is important. Not least this area of maritime supply, because it is globally unethical not to take greater responsibility for our own food needs than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1736	The representative Fleet said in his previous post that the Right has not said in the position that they will not be in favour of agriculture throughout the country. That's what he's referring to. Why can't the Right be clearer at that point? Why can't they say that they want an agriculture throughout the country? I can explain why they're not ready for it. Yes, they've decided. They say in plain text – and I refer to the new easiest message they've made: «We believe that housing and employment should not be a measure of agricultural transfers.» It is quite obvious that the Right has strayed from its previous views that they want agriculture throughout the country – let it be clear. Right here must be honest. Then I want to point out something else. The representative of Røbeck Nørve and Right and the Progress Party in the adjustment have said that they will remove the quota restrictions, they will remove the concession limit for both single use and co-operation, as it says. What does that mean for overproduction? What does it mean for the largest uses that are most vulnerable? Of course, the large uses that have newly invested will be affected. When we look this up against the fact that they are very unclear about market regulation, and that they are completely unclear about the protection of agricultural imports throughout the country, we must be able to say that they are deliberately unclear. In this way, they go away from previous policies, a policy that is particularly important to ensure food production across the country. A small example: they want to stimulate co-operation. They even say that co-operation should have better conditions than single use. What kind of reasonableness is there in the fact that 400 tonnes of co-operation shall have more grants than 400 tonnes of single/family use? It's not in the jump. It's completely pointless. This will lead to a adaptation that will be extremely unfortunate. We can discuss co-operation up and down, but having different conditions for different uses, which have the same size, is not good policy. It's unreasonable. Finally, in its agricultural communication, the right refers to the Norwegian dairy farmer’s being served with a Norwegian EU membership. They indicate that the annual aid gives the Swedish dairy farmer 95 centimetres more per litre than the Norwegian farmer achieves. It's just nonsense. The Swedish EU farmer receives a price of between NOK 2,30 and NOK 3,30. The Norwegian farmer receives NOK 4.50. Now the Right must be honest. Now the Right must be in favour of a fair policy. I don't think we see that here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1752	The President would point out that 'only customs' is not an appropriate parliamentary expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1755	Today, the Stortinget will adopt the framework for Norwegian agricultural policy over the next 10–15 years. Then it's important that we have some visions for our agriculture. It is equally important that we have some concrete measures on how to achieve these visions. After all, we are talking about the largest whole value chain we have in the mainland – agriculture and the food industry. It's a whole value chain that employs many people and that it's important to take care of. We have good food security in the country. We have to take care of that. The food industry is focusing heavily on innovation. We still need to encourage the food industry to bet on innovation. So we know that research and research-driven innovation is one of the main means of increasing the competitiveness of the value chains in the agricultural and food sectors. Before Easter, many of us got an egg carton with five eggs from the Farm. The message from the Farming Team was: we're going to be able to produce one egg whose bulking and government gives us the tools. The Christian People's Party will provide farmers with these means. We want to reduce the income gap between farmers and other professional groups. We want to set up a fund à la forest fund to give them more capital. We want to protect more of the food soil to give farmers important land to grow the food. I had hoped that the government parties would also pursue a policy in which we will in the future get six eggs in the egg box – not just five eggs. I'm a little bit uncertain about it. The chairman of the committee, Terje Aasland, stated that no one in this Chamber has said that this communication is too ambitious – and then the representative interpreted it to you that it must be a very ambitious agricultural message that we are discussing today. It is a broad interpretation to be based on the Chairman of the Committee. The representative said that he is pleased that the Christian People's Party has ambitions, that we are visionary, but that realism is also important. The Christian People's Party represents a realistic agricultural policy, a realistic food policy, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1770	It is sad that we do not have agricultural debates more often in Stortinget – it is instructive, exciting and many fresh articles. The debate has also been very clarifying. We're approaching the end of the day, and I want to spend some time on some of what I think we can withdraw from the debate. I have to say that the contributions of the Progress Party almost shocked me when we compared Norwegian agricultural policy with the situation in North Korea and the Soviet Union. It was thought that the nutrition committee has seen in Brazil was a model for Norwegian agriculture. There were farmyards of 100,000 targets, with 56 John Deere threshers. It's hard to take seriously. But it is the second largest party of the Storting, which can have government power after the next elections – unless people understand the seriousness of what forces are being set in motion in the Norwegian agricultural policy about what the party is going to have to do with politics. That's where I believe that the Christian People's Party must be much clearer at saying that it is totally inappropriate for the Christian People's Party to let that party go to power. They have to make it clear – and early. Then I'm a little surprised that my good associate from Hedmark and Right uses as strong words as the obscene detail management, the ‘iron grip’ on the industry and that ‘wage is obviously not very important’. I live in that industry – and how are we going to get more profitability when the Right wants to break a signed agreement between the state and the industry of SEK 1 960 million. kr, which would mean NOK 37 000 less per year in direct transfers in my – and our – county? Then the profitability would go down from day one. In addition — when referring to the tariff proposition — trade restrictions are to be removed. Trade restrictions to Norway are about customs protection precisely on agricultural products. Those who want to lose the most on it are the biggest manufacturers – the ones with volume. If you remove the concession limits, who will lose most of it? Well, it's those who have invested large and heavy and put themselves in deep debt, who then face an uncertain future because there's become more uncertainty about what prices they get. But what is the joy today is that we have been made clear that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party are united on the foundations of Norwegian agricultural policy. It is good for Norwegian agriculture that there are four parties who say that we want strong import protection, that we want an agricultural agreement between the state and industry, and that we want the role of cooperative as market regulator to continue. The fact that there are now four parties voting in favour of the proposal provides a security for agriculture. I think it's sad that no more people are doing it, but I'm glad that the four of us want to give agriculture predictability, and that through it we are going to increase Norwegian food production by 20 pst. in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1781	First, I must commend the Council of State's attempt to be high and dark from the pulpit of Storting – it was an impressive performance, but there are some holes. When the Council of State claims that everything Right has not written in its alternative agricultural message, we don't mean to happen, he fails. If that reasoning were to be held – when we have not written that it should be agriculture throughout the country, then we believe that it should not be – I would, if I had been the leader of the Norwegian League of Bonds, have been on the sidewalk in the diplomatic lodge now. Because that's exactly what the Center Party does when they don't want to enter the Christian People's Party's goals have been presented to them. With regard to the three concrete objectives of the Christian People's Party, they have asked to be included in the message, the Center Party says no, they don't have to stand there. But it can't mean that when they're not there, it's not going to happen that when you're not going to enter concrete income figures, the increase in income is not supposed to be what you're suggesting, that if you don't want to enter concrete production targets, then the increase shouldn't be that when you don't want to enter soil protection, you don't have to have soil protection. The reasoning of the state council is entirely on the ground. It's not like the Right has said or thought that we want to design a policy that means we don't get agriculture across the country. But the right has said that it is important that the agriculture we have around us be profitable. And profitability is important, because this is an industry that depends on getting young people in. That's what we've been talking about earlier in this room. This time it looks a little better — the last time we discussed agriculture, there were even grayer and older people sitting here. We say that the market regulator should be neutral, we want to look at it, and then it must be allowed to ask some questions: are we satisfied with the diversity of Norwegian agriculture today? Are we satisfied with the number of people who want to invest in Norwegian agriculture today? Can the weight of the cooperative combined with the market regulator make investors find this not attractive? There are at least questions that must be allowed to ask, and there are questions that could have been resolved. So finally, I think that the reason for the violent reactions we have received from the Central Party that we have engaged in agricultural policy and made an alternative announcement is that most people in the Central Party are genetic monopolists, and it annoys them endlessly that someone else is going to interfere in a policy that they think they have been right in the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1794	I have received a visit from both the representative Lundtägen and the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum. I believe that the debate here has shown that there is a difference in substance between those who trust the individual and those who trust that the system manages agriculture the best for them. I meant it very clearly when I said that the industry was painted into a corner, and it's going to take time to get it out. It is a major challenge, as the Battle of Vedum was about, how to get the industry out of the corner without particularly affecting those who have invested in confidence in the constraints imposed on the industry – it should not be underestimated that the challenge is there. I can't see how the Center Party can be as brilliantly satisfied with the development as it is in the industry. That's the most pronounced thing about the attacks we've seen on the Right, that you're obviously brilliantly satisfied with the situation as it is. I dare stand by my claim. Lundtigen stands in the Chamber for three own proposals which are probably not supported by others other than himself, and when you talk about the ambiguity of what the Centre Party stands for, it is the expertise that speaks. My claim is that the will to formulate objectives is significantly stronger than the will to fund them, and I think that the whole message and the whole debate have been shaped by it. The representative, Lundtigen, is actually demonstrating his own abstinence by making the three proposals he has made. Then came the claim that ASs are property rights without obligations. It's almost not to believe. More than half of Norwegian jobs in the private sector are operated by AS-shaped companies. If you dare to claim that there is ownership without obligations, I will take that debate at any time with Lundtegen. Our claim has been that special forest is very well suited to the AS form, because it creates stability over generations. I would like to take this debate with Lundtegen. I believe that ASs with owners who have strong interests develop well. The regulation of Lundtigen is exactly what destroys ownership. When you can no longer decide who to sell, or what price to sell, you have actually removed most of the property. This is what we see in Norwegian agriculture: Property rights are weakened, growth power is weakened, and the state of the industry is definitely weakened. I am amazed that the Centre Party is more concerned with attacking the Right than with creating a policy that is capable of generating growth in what is important to many, and that is agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1808	There is one thing you can notice, at least from the debate, and it is that the representative Gundersen is very much more optimistic about the Right Policy than the Right-Representative Fleet, because it is perhaps through the representative Gundersen that the actual political ideas on agricultural policy come from the Right. I would like to try to clarify a few things at the very end of the debate, which also show very clear lines of Norwegian agricultural policy. Firstly, it is requested, for example: from the Christian People's Party, the revenue and income target formulations of the Government Parties. I would like to quote from the setting. Government parties are in favour of ‘ensuring income development and social conditions for farmers in line with other groups’. It's a guarantee of income. Then it is said that the aim is to ‘develop further the agricultural incomes and welfare policy based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005’. If implemented, the revenue gap will be sealed. It's a fact. That's a pretty ambitious goal. I think it is as ambitious as the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which reads: ‘The government is asking for measures to enable farmers, as self-employed persons, to significantly reduce income differences among other groups.’ I don't think that's the big difference between the government parties and the Christian People's Party in this, even though you might like to construct it. So for soil protection. The preliminary figures for 2011 are the best since measurements increased in 1976. We are approaching the goal that lies there. We can discuss in the continuation if you should maybe also drop below 6,000 deacons. At least it's been hard to get where we are now, but it's the red-green government that has made sure that we now re-dispose less cultivated land than what we've ever done as long as the measurements have gone on. So also Christian People's Party has played by percentages. Few live on percentages, and there's a significant difference of 1.7 pst. in 2005 and 1,4 pst. in 2011, when the State budget was 650 billion, respectively. kr and 1000 br. kr. It is better to look at the framework for agricultural policy in the individual years. So to the right. Why do we question why the Right has deviated from the principle of farming throughout the country? It is because the majority of the committee, with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, actually determines that an agricultural policy is wanted throughout the country. Then the right should be involved in that relationship in order to confirm what is the decision of the national meeting in the Right, but they have therefore chosen not to do so. Finally, when we ask questions about Right infinity, it is not the way the representative Lødemel claimed that we spoke to the Right, but when the Right writes on its website that ‘Right will not remove import protection or market regulation overnight, but we must gradually adapt to the rest of the world’, there is reason to put question marks [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1828	Time's up. The President asks that we respect the measured speaking time. The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1833	I first thank you for the compliments from the committee leader on who is really able to think in the Right. That was an interesting point of view. Then I understand that we have touched on a sore point in agricultural policy here today – when the Council of State itself repeatedly goes up on the pulpit and demonstrates that he has light and light after formulations that can strengthen his own views that we are unclear, that we, for example, are. do not want to have an agricultural activity throughout the country. I can show him a number of comments where we stress that there should be good conditions for small uses and too much use – wherever they are. The Council of State has not been interested in reading at all. Then we finally got an interesting clarification from the leader, where this about agriculture across the country is that we have not joined a government party remark – strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1842	During the debate, a lot of people from the red-green talk about self-sufficiency. What I'm actually reacting to is that this is a food report, but you don't want to assume that you export 38 million meals of fish every day. When the minister makes a food report, he should also mention fish. In the case of the Minister for Fisheries, she is the Minister for Fisheries – she is not the Minister for Food. The Minister of Food sits here. At least we in the Progress Party believe that fish is food. Then to Breck. I'd like to comment a little bit on what he said. He said I was unclear when it came to our proposal about the regulatory role. I think it's nice that he thinks I was unclear. At the same time, he said that the Right will not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. But what Breck talks about is a Document 8 proposal submitted by the Progress Party, which is about the regulatory role. However, the proposal has not yet been discussed. The committee has not started the job with that. Not even who will be the case rapporteur has come up yet. And then the council knows what the Right will do! I think – with all due respect – that the Right deserves an apology from Breck for telling him what they're going to do, and not doing. I find that unworthy in a debate, especially by a Council of State. I think he should moderate this a little. To what was also said was unclear: As I said in my post earlier, we want the SLF in a transitional phase to have the regulatory role until we see this. We want to set up a group – which can be made up of people from BI, made up of competent people – to look at this. In spite of all this – which has not been mentioned by the Council of State – over the agricultural agreement, 35 million is spent. kr to the regulator part – from the budget, not just from the farmers. And you can also take that with you. Then to Aasland. He said no one has said it's a little ambitious message. I have stood on this platform and said that Welcome to the table, as the message is called, has been delivered without a bribe, because there is nothing to it. If it's a little ambitious to say that we don't agree, I don't know what words to use. The only thing I can conclude is that if there is a change of government, it will at least be a new Welcome to the table. I can promise that the new government – if it comes – will at least have bribes with it. A message will not be delivered without a bribe. I would like to say that the Progress Party will support the Left's proposal No. 20 and No 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1857	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1860	The representative Gundersen responded to my precise wording, the Right's desire to have ownership without any obligation to farm. One of the central obligations is a personal dwelling obligation. Everyone – and I stress everyone – in this room, I believe that I agree that a person cannot impose a personal obligation on a corporation or a farm. The Communication of the Right on Agriculture states that there should be ‘remunerated agriculture that gives the active farmer a future-optimism’. Then it's on page 21: ‘The Norwegian dairy farmer would profit from being an EU farmer. The EU’s northern support provides the Swedish dairy farmer with DKK 0.95 more per litre’ than the Norwegian farmer achieves. That's not true. One cannot trust the Right document here. The price in Norway is SEK 4.60. In Sweden it's 2.30. The district aid in Norway, in northern Norway, is higher than 95 øre. It's a fake. I ask those who read this, read with the necessary critical sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1874	The chairman of the committee, Terje Aasland, says that signed toys with numbers. I understand that the government parties think there are discouraging numbers that we find, that in 2005 1.7 pst was used. of the agricultural budget, while in 2011 we spent 1.4 pst. If we're not going to be able to use comparable numbers from 2005 and 2011, I'm not sure what numbers we can use. It's also true that the government has more than 50 pst. more to route now than when we were in government in 2005. Then there is no piece of art to give any extra dollars here and there. But it's on the distribution you see the priority. We gave more priority to the peasant than this government does. It's a cross of thought for us that the government, when it's going so well for the country, can't afford to give more to agriculture – when the cake is bigger. The representative of Aasland was also concerned that one likes to construct that the Christian People's Party is concerned with agriculture. In 1933, the Christian People's Party had six points that we asked for support to go to the Stortinget. One point was an active agricultural policy. From 1933 until 2012 the Christian People's Party has been in charge of an active agricultural policy, and so will we. If it is the case that the government parties in their comments have as good a policy as the Christian People's Party is promoting with its proposal today, about the income of the peasants, I think it is strange that the chairman of the Committee and the government parties cannot vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal to reduce the income gap between farmers and other professional groups. I myself sat in the negotiations with the government on this point. I know how far we got. It was in another room, but at least we didn't aim to negotiate agricultural policy on a broader basis than the government parties could stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1885	This is going to be the last post from my team now, and I want to say thank you for a clear and engaging debate. I just want to say to the representative, Bakke-Jensen, who said that it is not in plain text: yes, it is in plain text on page 9 of the new agricultural message from the Right: «We believe that housing and employment should not be a measure of agricultural transfers.» Clearly, we cannot interpret it differently than it underlines that one has gone away from having an agricultural policy in this country. Then I agree with what the fleet representative says, that it says that a want good terms for both small and large uses, but it has to relate in a sense what it says, that's what's the starting point. To the representative Torgeir Tåldal: We can walk many rounds around the regulator role here. I have tried to explain the inconsistency we are reading about the setting, and hope that it becomes clearer as soon as you get a job with it in the Advance Party and in the Right. But mention the claim that this is a big message «without bribes»: Let me now be a little pointed and say that then I am afraid that with more progress party politics there will not be much Norwegian food on the plate. Finally, I just want to comment on some of the contributions from the representatives of the Christian People's Party. Let me answer that there has never been more soil protection than this government has done. Many have gone through the figures and said that the 2011 figures, as they are now, are almost at the bottom of the halving target proposed by the Bondevik II government itself. This is a fantastic result, and it has the basis that we have implemented an effective policy. In terms of income, it is unmistakable that we have changed policy since 2005. We have a chronically equal development after that time. Clearly, we will continue to work to further develop that policy – it is quite obvious that there is too much distance between other groups and the farmers – but there is a job we have to do in the future. We have provided 110 000 kroner in increase according to the budget item during these years. That's the same thing that other groups have, which is better than in many, many decades. Finally, on the production objectives: The main and main objective of the Storing Communication is to increase Norwegian production. It is historically high, and the Communication states that Norwegian food production should grow in all areas, primarily based on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1909	The representative of Irene Lange Nordahl has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1912	The political divisions in this debate are clear, between the Red-Green and Christian People's Party on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. The debate has made this clear. When the Storting today adopts the agricultural notification, it is the most ambitious agricultural message ever. This is a communication aimed at increasing Norwegian food production, continuing positive income trends, making it easier to invest and with measures for increased recruitment. Now, in the Centre Party, we are committed to meeting the objectives of the Agriculture Communication, for the benefit of agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1919	The representative Lillian Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1923	Now it's the third time I try to get answers from the Torgeira Träldal of the Progress Party, and it's the last time and the last opportunity I have now. I repeat: the ability of single farmers to develop operations is crucial," said Torgeira Tåldal in his main post. To achieve this, the Progress Party has less of all: fewer regulations, less customs protection, and much less transfers. Yeah, they're gonna cut 7 billion. kr. I have registered many operators in agriculture who do not agree to this recipe. Can the representative Treldal – who so often complains about high costs and tough competition conditions for business operators in this country – explain how he believes his policy could lead to a living agriculture? Is this freedom for the farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1932	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1935	There was a rhetorical point made by the Minister of Agriculture when it came to the Advance Party, to go to table with cutlery: it is far better to go to table with food on the table. With the Right Agricultural Policy, there may not be much food on the table, at least not from Norwegian agriculture. So to the Christian People's Party on numbers: I'm not going to keep polishing around it very much, but I just want to draw out some numbers from the framework of the agricultural business. From 2005 it was granted 450 million. kr in the frame. That was the result in 2005, last year Bondevik sat. For 2011, the figure was 1,420 million. So it's going to be $1.4 billion. kr – a significant difference. I'm not going to spend time reading out what the frames were on under Bondevik's government, and what they've been on in the last few years, but I just notice that there's a significant difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1944	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1947	I asked for the word because my good center friend in the Christian People's Party came with a slot in his final post. It's when you're in position you see what a game really prioritizes. In order to take another figure, the year we're in now, the third year of the ageing period: when the Christian People's Party had the prime minister, the offer was in 2010-krona minus 495 million. kr. It was the offer Christian People's Party gave to agriculture when they had the Minister of Agriculture, and that's when you see what you really prioritize. When Knut Arild Hareide was Minister for the Environment, more than 11,000 deer were redispatched. Last year, there were 6,070 covers of cultivated land, so there's no doubt that the policy is working. That's when you're in position you see what you're prioritizing. We in the Center Party are pleased that the Christian People's Party is now showing impatience when they are opposed, but unfortunately history is not the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1954	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1957	Just briefly: Thank you for the debate! So a little bit to our formulations of using agricultural transfers to ensure settlement. We're going to use the agricultural transfers to ensure profitable agriculture across the country. Finally, about the accusations that we are unclear. That's kind of weird. On the one hand, we are accused of being horribly unclear, and on the other hand, the position is quite clear that our policy will upset agriculture throughout the country. So we're unclear, and the only thing that can then be drawn out of our policy is that it's going to rage agriculture all over the country. Actually, I don't think so. There are examples of immortality from the position. When we talk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, he is quite clear that things will change. WTO negotiations will lead to a change in the situation for Norway as well. External relations will change in Norway. Then you have to prepare for the changes that are coming, not just pinch your eyes again and forget it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1968	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1971	The representative of Aasland and the Council of State believes that the wording of the communication meets the Christian People's Party's proposal for improving income balancing. What then hangs in the air, and which has not been put in place, is: Why do the Youths of the Centre and others with Easter uprisings and want a clear message from the Center Party respond that they too should follow the Christian People's Party's proposal for stronger wording in terms of income? It's hanging in the air. If it were as simple as it has been here today, there would probably have been no uprising or reaction, as we have seen in recent times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1976	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1979	State Council Breck said that we will further develop this policy on the basis of income. From 2005 onward, farmers have had more to walk with – we read that out of statistics. But we want farmers to have a promise about this for the future. That's what the Christian People's Party demanded in the negotiations we had with the government, that we could put in place measures that would allow farmers as self-employed to significantly reduce income differences to other groups. We want to keep going that way. Then we will be met in this debate, from representatives of the government parties, that they do if the room for action is in place. The Christian People's Party wanted to give this promise. The farmers are not for sale in government negotiations, and the farmers are not for sale to us in terms of income otherwise either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1985	The representative Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1988	I would like to thank you for a clear debate – a debate that has shown that there is a clear distinction in agricultural policy between the government that has made a boost to agricultural incomes, and the opposition that, with the Progress Party in the front, will rage agriculture. Either the representatives like it or they don't, it's a fact that if we get a government change, there won't be a raise for agriculture no matter how much someone tries to say that we're going to continue lifting. It is necessary for those involved in the creation of a government change to take over. So in the end, it's the way that Right is concerned that we criticize their policies. They want them to be allowed to criticise the government, and then we won't be allowed to say what the consequences of their options are – that's a strange debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e1997	The representative Torgeir Tåldal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2000	The representative of the Central Party, Mr Vedum, says that the policy is working. Yes, we're recording it with the latest media storages and in the hall here that there's a riot in the Center Party. So it obviously doesn't even work in the Center Party. It seems so good that you put down three uses per day – 21 a week. It's the Central Party's policy. Then we are also accused of being insignificant. I can't understand why, because otherwise you'll be accused of being too angry. So the committee chairman also says that if the civil policy comes into effect, we will be free of food on the table. It's a little strange that it's not free for food on the table in the rest of the world and in the rest of Europe, which has a policy that we want to pursue. So a little bit to Lillian Hansen's notice. I think it is quite striking that the representative Hansen now tells the whole Stortinget that she has not read the comments, that she has not read the documents. All she's asking is in the documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2011	I'm not going to spend the entire speaking time. I just want to try to contribute to the end of the debate. I think it's hard for the representatives to be able to shed more light on the different front lines that go into the hall. I take the floor to thank you for the debate. There has been a wide-ranging debate. It's been interesting to be present in the hall all the time and participate in it. I think there is a lot that has been clarified in terms of the lines of policy – the government parties with the support of the Christian People's Party in important areas, while we agree that the Right and the Advance Party are in favour of a different political approach to these important areas of society. It gets to be my summary. Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2020	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2036	One of the heaviest things you can experience as a parent is that the child is even becoming heavily nurturing, like disabled or seriously ill. Being a baby's mother or father is demanding enough already. In addition, when you have a child who needs help 24 hours a day — whether the health problems are congenital or come as a result of e.g. An accident – it is clear that it puts the time frame over which others complain, in perspective. Of course, you don't have to paint black. Like all other parents, you will experience bright and dark moments with your child. You want to be proud and suspicious of each other, and you want to put your child ahead of everything else. The main difference is that a child who is in need of care takes so much more time – so much time that it should combine the care you want to give her child with a regular 100 pst. job, get difficult, if not impossible. Those in this situation are dependent on good and constructive cooperation with the public, not least with their municipality. There may be some who have the impression that the public should take care of all care tasks that all citizens of the country — including young children — can experience. The public obviously has a role to play in such contexts. But it is also obvious that for children there is a great difference in being taken care of by what, after all, is a professional and sometimes impersonal health care, compared to the security and love that most people will experience with their mother, father and sibling. As stated in the report of the Kaasa Committee: ‘Parents and children have a special relationship for which it will be difficult for other caregivers to compensate.’ Therefore, as a society, we have developed some schemes that are intended to help parents in such a situation. They're in play now! There are good reasons why we have such arrangements. The temporary departure of parents from work to care for a nursing child can often be a win-win-win situation. A highly nurturing child can cost society as much as $3 million. kr in the year if he or she is exclusively taken care of by the public. It can again be compared with a normal Norwegian salary of around 400000 kroner. In other words, it can be that the parents in the period are at home – if they want and can – being profitable for society, which ‘saving millions’ well for parents, which is given the opportunity to care for the girlfriend they have in a good way for the child – most importantly – who gets the stability, security and love that only parents can provide, of course when they receive the follow-up and professional guidance and support they need On the parents' side, this is what the Kaasa Committee writes in its report, as a meaningful but lonely task. Unfortunately, today’s schemes, such as care allowances, social assistance and care allowances, are perceived by parents as fragmented, unbridled and difficult to deal with. Parents experience in the worst cases becoming wasteballs between the state and the municipality. In addition, the legislation is sometimes perceived as incomprehensible and inappropriate, such as: in the case of the children of the organisation Brainbarna Norway, which the opposition parties took up in a representative proposal in 2010. Parents were denied care because their child had a permanent — rather than a temporary — suffering, as if it were making their need to be at home with their children less insensitive, or less legitimate. There has been a lot of back and forth, a lot of unforeseeability and uncertainty, and now restrictions in practice in Nav districts. The opposition has addressed these issues several times. It's been a very long time. So it's good that we now have an overall review, as it's now started with the Kaasa Committee. It is very good in the Kaasa Committee's setting, which has now been sent to the hearing. I think, for example, it may be appropriate to combine the aid and the cost of care, as proposed by the sample, because it is necessary to be careful to make it difficult for both the bureaucracy and the users by having more overlapping schemes than is necessary. I also believe it is appropriate to facilitate that parents can combine care with a professional career to a greater extent than at present. We know that it may be difficult to get back to work after many years outside the ordinary profession. It is good that the care allowance should be a pensionable income. I think it might be a proper priority to give them with the greatest care tasks a larger part of the pie. But there may be many who lose out on this if the change is to be proven neutral, and many dilemmas can then be created. I also want to commend the sample for proposing an enhanced family support. The rest of the population suffers more from physical and mental distress, and it makes sense to read in the attitude of a mother who says: ‘We are tired enough for the whole world’. At the same time, there are some things I'm questioning in the report. The worry is primarily about two things. The first is whether the focus of the setting is on equality, integration, continuing work relationships, etc. can make the focus disappear from where it should be – at the best of children and families. It is difficult to recognise for some politicians, but everything is not politics. Sometimes you can actually look at a problem isolated, without going into all sorts of other considerations. This is particularly true when vulnerable children are involved. The second is whether a limitation of the care allowance scheme to a maximum of 50 pst. is fit and proper. There are good reasons to believe that such a restriction is inappropriate rigidity. Of course, many people want to keep a link to their professional life during the periods they receive care allowances, and for them such a scheme can work well. But setting such a roof that will apply to all, regardless of the situation of life, works artificially. One thing is to facilitate a continuing work relationship, which is almost entirely different from the one imposed on it. What about those children in whom the disease suddenly worsens, or who are in another situation that suggests that both parents should be with the child over a certain period of time? Is it really necessary to cover the care allowance scheme as clearly as the sample provides? I'm also asking if it's right, as the sample suggests, not to let it be possible to combine care and pay or 100 pst. work on some parts. The care tasks of such families do not limit themselves to office hours during the days of the week. If parental care is a substitute for municipal care, would such rigid legislation really be appropriate? I would also like to mention one last point: how does this proposal intend to ensure that parents throughout the country will be able to experience that care pay is a real alternative? With today’s care pay, it sometimes appears quite random whether you have a proper care pay system in place or not. Of course, local self-government is an important value – I can sign it as rapporteur for 14 years – but it can't be that you have to cross your fingers in order to live in the right municipality when the need arises suddenly, or that you are forced to be a so-called welfare nomadic and have to move to another municipality or district. In addition, many small Nav offices — and even many large ones — will lack competence in the sometimes very rare diagnostics involved. This is also one of the challenges of the Interaction Reform, which is to provide for more and more action in municipalities. It requires local resources, and it requires competence. The option set out on page 101 of the Kaasa Committee states that the various proposals in the vote will ‘have an impact on both the local economy and the state economy’ and that ‘it is clear that there will be a need to strengthen the local economy’. Then my interpellation: how and when will the Council of State ensure these children and their families safety and predictability and quality and stability in care? It is also right that the public should take care of the health, professional, human and economic systems surrounding these families and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2087	Quite exactly two years ago, I responded to an interview with questions about how I would improve and renew the care pay system. I explained that I was aware that there are problematic aspects to this scheme and how it is practised. The Storting had also noticed the results of a review by the State Health Authority of the scheme. Health surveillance concluded that the care pay system appears unclear and contributes to weakening legal certainty for people with extensive care needs and their relatives. I made it known to the Stortinget that the government would set up a public sample that would review care benefits that replace municipal services. The committee would also propose changes to current arrangements. Both the Minister of Labour and I thought that the investigation should also cover the partly overlapping neighbouring schemes in the public sector, such as the aid grant and the care scheme. The investigation was to be seen in the context of the strong expansion of municipal care in recent years. The committee was appointed in June 2010 and in October last year they delivered the NOU 2011:17 When it is true to say about the care of relatives. From invisible to valued and included. The mandate was to determine to what extent and how families with extensive care tasks can be compensated for when they exercise care and care that the municipality otherwise has to offer. The selection was asked to look at boundaries between public and private liability and to propose models for future performances. It should be taken into account that the government will further develop schemes to facilitate the combination of professional activities with care for children and nursing adults and the elderly. This is in line with the forecast of future care services. The selection has looked at the situation of the user, of the relatives and of groups that are particularly vulnerable. They have also looked at the impact of current schemes and assessed challenges related to demographic development. It is an important resource for users in need of help, for health and care services and for all of us. I have noticed the same quote as the representative Graham, who says that it makes the impression when the sample tells of relatives who say they are ‘weary enough for the whole world’ and that they themselves feel that health is getting worse. I have also noticed that the sample does not turn aside to say that today's schemes also lead to serious failures for some users, due to a lack of follow-up. In the national health and care plan, we have said that provision should be made to enable caregivers to combine care with professional activity and that care tasks should be more equally distributed between men and women. The representative Graham only mentions parts of the sample’s recommendation when she refers to the proposal to replace aid and care pay with a municipal social welfare benefit. I would mention that the sample has also proposed to introduce the right to 20-50 pst. care allowance for working parents who have children under 18 years of age with severe long-term suffering. The committee also proposes that there should be a statutory family support for the care assistance. A related contract shall ensure that the user is adequately provided with care and that the care provider is provided with the necessary support, relief and assistance for his/her part of the task. The issues are complex. It is about providing necessary and sound services for those in need. At the same time, it is important to prevent health damage, to exclude from the labour market and to ensure the income of the family of the caregiver. It is then important to look at the whole of the matter before describing the possible consequences of the proposals in the investigation. Like the representative Graham, I am concerned that families should have a safe and predictable framework in relation to the family economy and the quality and stability of care. I am pleased that the Kaasa Committee has provided a unanimous investigation with a comprehensive perspective. The investigation provides a good basis for further work on these important issues. In cooperation with the Minister of Labour, I have sent the investigation on a wide-ranging consultation with the deadline of 15 August this year. The consultation will highlight the impact of the proposals, including the economic impact of the proposals on parents with the most demanding care tasks. I will later come back to Stortinget with which solutions the government chooses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2115	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree with her that the issues are complex, and I am also very excited about what input you will get during the consultation period. I fully agree that it's a more holistic perspective than what I had time to go into. I will nevertheless grasp one thing that the Kaasa Committee has also talked about, and that I was so far inside, because the sample has set itself the goal of creating a system that can contribute to equality and integration. But it cannot be a field for all sorts of other political considerations – which I was in for, sometimes we need to give priority to the children, not all other kinds of possible political considerations. If the challenge is a highly nurturing child, the solution should be adapted to the nursing child and its family, not to the needs of society for target management according to certain criteria. Here it must be up to each family to adapt as best they can, and in the way they think is best for their children, of course within the limits and within the economic framework that society must set. I want to make sure that we go into this debate with a certain amount of roughness. Children with an additional need for care shall not be a piece of a social democratic game in order to promote one or the other political objective. This applies no matter how good the objectives may be, whether they are equality, integration or other price-worthy objectives. What is important to me is that forces that should have been used in care can really be used in care. Today we have a large amount of application bureaucracy for parents and supervisors, we have large differences in Norwegian municipalities related to care pay, which may vary from an average of 155 kroner per capita used for this to 817 kroner per capita. We have in practice paid care allowance from Nav in the counties, and also declined, as we have seen on TV 2 in the winter in view of ME-sick young people needing care, where the Children's Ombudsman responded and referred to the UN Convention on Children's Rights, or the boy from Bodø with a very rare diagnosis that was removed from care after ten years in February. We have heard about the parents' struggle for care through applications, rejections and anchors, for example. the family that first got the case through after more than one year, and then the child died right after. Many forces that should have been used for something else went to the fight against the system. This is the reason for the interpellation. Parents with children with severe disabilities have very great challenges, they deserve our attention, and I am delighted with the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2130	It is always difficult to discuss what the final design of the new social security schemes will be like when the case is being consulted. But I do believe that the Kaasa Committee has pointed out quite important issues in the case of families providing care – the importance of being able to provide care, and the importance of not having to leave the workplace in order to be able to provide that care. I see that the interpellant agrees that it might be wise to make changes, so we'll see when the hearing is over, which direction it points to. I understood in the first post that the combination of care and work was important. I think it is important that the Kaasa Committee has been very clear that care providers should not be – as is also stated in the title of the NOU – invisible, but should be valued and included. This means that the municipality should be able to manage and support the individual providing care in a much stronger way than in the past. Then I very much agree that it can often be difficult to have competence in all municipalities on all kinds of diagnostics. That's why it's very important that the central centre of expertise we have can also provide information and knowledge abroad. We see it in many types of recent diagnosis – we look at it at ME, and we also see it on some rare diagnostics that come up and that have done it in recent times. So I have to say that I might react a little bit to that equality shouldn't be a goal. It's clear that it's the one that needs care, that's going to be in the center. But it's actually quite important to be able to have two thoughts in your head and care for the caregiver. Many women give feedback that they want to have a relationship with the labour market, as well as being able to provide it. It is precisely this combination that the Kaasa Committee has looked at and proposed, which will provide predictability and which will also aim to simplify bureaucracy and, hopefully, to bring about more uniform legislation across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2141	First, I would like to say that it is an important, but also a sensitive, interpellant theme that addresses in its interpellation to the Council of State. The fact that we in Norway have different practices in the practice of care pay is both unsustainable and unethical and weakens the legal certainty of those people who have extensive care needs, and not least of their relatives. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has already started a review of the different arrangements we have, in order to come up with new proposals that can provide a more comprehensive solution than the one we have today. This includes, inter alia: by setting up the Kaasa Committee, on which the Council of State was involved, which has provided a unanimous investigation which provides a good basis for further work on these important issues for those in need of care. This investigation is open to wide consultation until 15 August. The hearing bodies will then make representations on the proposals outlined and which will be important for the further work of the government on what is to be presented. It would therefore be wrong at that time to conclude on the questions and proposals raised in the investigation before the replies to the hearing have been received. Therefore it is good that the council says she will come back to Stortinget with the solutions the government chooses. There are solutions that will have financial consequences both for users and, in particular, for municipalities. It is important in a welfare society such as Norway that we have mechanisms to combine work with care for both children, nursing adults and the elderly. Of course, this must be combined with the government's offensive policy of expanding the care services with several places of care and more jobs, but not least with regard to what both the inter-pellant and the Council of State had to do: to increase the competence of those in the municipality who work with those who have the different needs. I think the Kaasa Committee recommends an exciting model, which involves an extended care allowance scheme, a new care allowance and statutory family support. At the same time, the sample has highlighted the need for the caregiver to have adequate services and it is important that the caregiver should be at the centre of these offers. Those providing comprehensive care shall have a sound overall situation and an opportunity to participate in the labour market. There, too, it's about equality with others in society. Prioritisation of resources for those most in need is also important, and it is not least important to simplify bureaucracy, which was also addressed by the Council of State. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken the initiative that the State Health Authority has now had this thorough review of the system, and that the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Labour have worked closely together on this matter, so that we can get a complete result that can solve many of the issues we are seeing today. This interaction must take place between municipalities, local Nav offices and not least relatives and all employees working on these challenges. The future care services are what is important to all of us, no matter where we live in the country. It's about public benefits, it's about non-governmental organisations, it's about private offerings, and it's not least about relatives who do an important task for many users who should have had an offer in public health. I look forward to this matter coming back to Stortinget after the hearing that would then have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2162	I will first be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising a very important debate, a necessary debate and a debate that I hope can speed up the work associated with giving better offers to the weakest in society, those who need it the most, the most. When the Council of State stands on this pulpit and says that two and a half years ago she promised to start looking at this, we know how it went. There is a deadline for consultation until August 2012 and, if necessary, a notification will be sent to the Stortinget in the spring of 2013, the Stortinget will not deal with it until after the 2013 elections, then you will have to set the harvest, and we will have to make a proposition, and then we will be in 2014 before this is done. That is, it takes between four and a half and five years from the first headlines in the media, which proved that this system is not working properly, until you can have a hope of getting a better and brighter everyday life. I think with respect to report that it's too long – it's too long for the people who stand there and stick their heads in the wall and don't know how to make their everyday lives work, how to make them jump. There's something we should take seriously in this room. The interpellant was inside the many media storages that have been. Governments point to the Kaasa Committee, which takes a number of things into account. I've been foaming through the Kaasa Committee settings myself, but I've spent more time out visiting many of the parents and kids that have been mentioned in the media. I've been at their house and I've seen how they feel in everyday life, what challenges they face. I'm pretty startled when I see how fragmented our welfare system is initially. So the Kaasa Committee says that now we're going to do it a little bit less fragmented, we're going to replace aid and care pay with a new scheme called care benefit, and then we're going to add it to the municipality. Why should it be added to the municipality and continue to maintain the fragmented organisation? Why can't you say that this is an important welfare task, we're adding it to Nav to avoid municipalities running and wondering whether to provide these benefits or not? I then record that it is in the Kaasa Committee’s position – and that the Council of State says – that you also want to see if you can get guidance rates for this, so it should be similar across the country. Then I will challenge the Council of State: What are the indicative rates? Is it like social assistance to have national rates that are indicative? Or should these be norms? These are important questions. If the guidance rate is, we're on the exact same path that we're on in terms of social assistance; it's the individual municipality that decides. And we see that we get welfare refugees – people who move from one municipality to another – and that it's a big, different offer. I fear that it can also happen further if you do not take this seriously, bring it together in our welfare system, which is Nav, get national guidelines and national norm rates for how it should be. I imagine that when you come with this setting and implement this law in two to two and a half years, you have still come as far as you can. The parents and the children who need this care the most still stick their heads in the welfare system, because it is up to the municipalities according to the economy, relative to the number of hours allocated, etc. That's the problem we have to deal with, and that's the problem we have to deal with when it comes to how we organize our welfare services. I expect the Council of State to take care of it. I see that time goes very fast – especially when you talk about a topic that you are very engaged in – but at least at the end I want to be allowed to recommend to the Council of State: Had it been possible to get more progress in this matter and have done this faster? When can the Council of State bring a case before the Storting – when can we expect it from the Council of State? Has the Council of State come up with any thoughts as to whether she will run this as a message first and as a proposition in retrospect, or whether she will present it as a proposition first, so that one can go straight to the decision, modify the laws that should be amended, and put the system in place as it should be, as quickly as possible? I hope that the Council of State will be able to confirm that in the course of this interview debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2175	A little bit to what the representative Eriksson was in at the very end here, about when and in what way the Council of State will come back to the Stortinget. I think that's interesting. It's important to get an answer to that, because as Eriksson also went into it, it's going to be a long time before any decisions are made here in Stortinget. The Council of State must at least ensure that these families have good arrangements in the meantime and that they do not get into such a difficult situation. The interpellant has thoroughly explained the difficult situation of many families with severely disabled children. I want to make this visible with a couple of examples that have been on TV 2 in the last few weeks, and there are many, many more. It was Markus of nine years who suffers from a life-threatening muscle disease, and cannot expect a long life. Only 1 pst. with this rare muscle disease is more than ten years old. Nevertheless, Nav believes that Mark is not very seriously ill, and therefore refuses to give care to Mother. He needs follow-up 24 hours a day, however, he needs continuous supervision. The mother is now exempt from care allowance, so that she can no longer be at home with her son who is dependent on the respirator and care 24 hours a day. The Nav rejection states that Markus suffers from a permanent condition, and that the boy is not seriously ill, despite the disagreement between Markus's firmament and the opinion that Nav misinterprets the law. This is one example that makes a strong impression. I also want to mention another example. In 2003, it was decided, by political decision, that those in need of intensive treatment or training and rehabilitation should be offered this in the specialist healthcare service with possible support under §5-22. Parents who are currently entitled to care allowance to participate and facilitate intensive training and rehabilitation have been informed that the right to care ceases because the Nav Administration has reinterpreted the care scheme. This new interpretation takes place without any political treatment. A father wrote to me last night that he now has to quit the job as a doctoral student to train his child. He says it's sad to have to give up and finish his career. When the choice is between your own children and your career, it is a simple choice. But this means that this family has one income because he doesn't get a care allowance. I have been working a lot on these matters since 1998. There is no doubt about what has been the Storting's intention with support and assistance for these children and their parents. We believe that the new interpretation and practice particularly affects the families who have based on and adapted to these benefits. A consequence of the conversion will mean that the established training programme has to stop because the families in full-time work will not be able to support the family. This will lead to a lower level of provision for children and, in many cases, a need for more cost-intensive provision in municipalities. This is about parents – what we are talking about now – who make an outstanding effort for their children, day and night, year after year. The consequence is that they now, as a mother said, simply have to give up their vital projects in order to help their seriously disabled children to a participating, worthy and not least a learning life. We're not working with politics to defend systems, but to make arrangements so that people can live good and value lives. When only those families that have good finances – where a parent has the opportunity to be at home – will cope with this task, it is a development that the Right absolutely does not want. Many of these children will be worse by losing their planned training offer, which in turn could trigger higher costs of disease. What these children will lose personally is not measurable in money. I hope that until she has the opportunity to make new proposals for the Storting, the Council of State will be able to ensure that these parents receive good offers, receive proper offers, and that the family will have the opportunity to take care of their children as they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2192	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately over. The President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2197	First, thank you to the interpellant who has taken the initiative for an important debate. The centre party has traditions of being a driver of family-based voluntary care schemes, such as care pay. With demographic developments, with twice as many as 67 years in 2050, more with lifestyle diseases and a high recruitment need within care and care, we will in the future be even more dependent on care for relatives. Last year the kaasa selection continued its settings. The selection proposes an extended care allowance scheme of up to 20-50 pst. care allowance for parents with children under 18 years of age who have severe and permanent suffering. They propose a new and reinforced municipal care allowance, and they propose to legislate dependants in the municipalities. I believe that the proposal for repatriation aid is a remarkable one. This proposal deals with family contact, i.e. an agreement between the municipality and the relative based on a collective decision and a care plan for the user. It concerns a family coordinator in line with the health and care laws. It deals with training, counselling for those receiving care assistance, and increasing and more flexible rights of leave from the labour market. They propose the right to leave and leave in the event of sickness, insurance schemes and quality assurance, follow-up and evaluation. The selection also suggests that educational materials and learning programmes be developed for relatives, and that health centres should be provided with knowledge of their vulnerability to physical and mental health in order to target prevention measures. The centre party thinks this is a good suggestion from the Kaasa Committee. We also note that there is some resistance to the proposed changes in the care allowance scheme, and believe that it is now important to listen to all of these hearing instructions that come in to the Kaasa Committee's report, and that they take a final position on the device after that. So I'll point out another NOU, Innovation in Care. This issue also calls for a new policy for those closest to it. One point to point out that two of the main challenges facing the future will be a shortage of both labour and voluntary care providers. Society would not have gone about without voluntary and mainly family-based care. They write that about 100,000 annual works today are carried out by relatives and are decisive both for well-being and value creation. This selection will also put a new policy on the agenda with three overarching objectives: Care provided by relatives to close family members must be seen and valued as an important part of the overall supply of care services. The actual and potential resources of the close social network around a user need to be mobilised and used in the provision of services. The relative and professional apparatus around the user must interact, so that the relatives' contribution becomes an integral part of the unit's assistance to the user. In today’s situation, caregiver care is characterised by a large lack. I know that many of the relatives themselves get sick. In its country-wide investigation in 2010, the Health Inspectorate found that the municipalities did not continuously identify and assess the care burden, the situation and the needs of the dependants and the lack of treatment in the case of a download request. I agree with the selection when they write that the big challenges ahead probably won't make the user and family page so strong that it pushes them away professionally. The major challenges will be to develop professional practice so that cooperation with users and relatives becomes a natural and integrated part of the subject. In professional development and education, this must be given a more important place than today. I mean that both of these NOUs, that is, the Kaasa report and innovation in care, show a way in our health and care policies that it's important to get. In the end, I want to post something that I found on the inside of Innovation in care. There are a few words written by Kate Næss in The Blind from 1969, which is called The Track. They sound like this: ‘We are on track for a new and better reality to exist not so far from here It is hopefully in the vicinity of what the heart understands’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2236	This important debate is about families where one of the children has a particularly high need for care. The matter is therefore a matter of individual human beings. We often say that we cannot go into individual matters. That's right. We are not the case handlers – fortunately. We are legislators and we shall adopt the legislation. Nevertheless, the very simple things that tell us about the legislation that we adopt work after the intentions. We have recently seen more examples of families being faced with very difficult situations when they don't get their allowance renewed – the last time about Markus on the TV 2 news on Monday. We are talking about families who have particularly demanding care tasks for their severely disabled children. Many of these parents want to follow their children as far as possible, at least until the children become competent and get their own housing, where the municipal services can get more into the picture. Until the children are qualified, they want their children to be able to live at home in the same way as their functional children. Therefore, they also want to take a large part of the care tasks themselves. I understand that many families feel that it is stressful to have nursing staff going in and out of their homes all day, and that this is also one of the reasons why they want to take a large part of the care tasks even when the children are young. In case of loss of care, many of these families get into financial difficulties. They simply have problems dealing with their financial obligations and caring for the family. An example is a mother I know from my home. She had NOK 14,000 a month in foster care for her disabled daughter. After not renewing this benefit, she was awarded NOK 6000 in care allowance from the municipality. The reduction in public social benefits has led the family, among other things: has had to ask the bank to suspend mortgage lending. This situation, according to the mother's statement, is likely to result in her having to take on normal work, and that they have to put away the care of the daughter of the municipality. And that's not what the family wants now when the daughter is still a minor. They want to be as close as possible as family. I am pleased that the government, with the Minister of Health and Care and the Minister of Labour at the head, is doing a thorough and good job of looking at the complex needs and challenges of these families, including the economic challenges of having a severely disabled child. I am pleased that the unanimous investigation of the Kaasa Committee is now being held. There we are informed of the consequences of the selection proposal, including the consequences of the proposals for families with severely disabled children. The Minister of Health and Health warned in his main post that the government will return to the Stortinget after the hearing with the solutions that the government believes are necessary. That's good, and I'm looking forward to it coming to Stortinget. Naturally, this thorough work takes time. I have a great deal of understanding for that, as the representative of big business. We can't rush into thorough, important processes. But at the same time, I also understand that several of the parents in question think it takes too long. Until we get the clarifications outlined by the Minister of Health and Welfare in his statement, perhaps some of the parents will have to put away the care of their children to the public, so that they can take on the usual work to support their family. It will be the direct consequence that they have lost their allowance. As elected representatives, we all have a driving force for our commitment. Finally, I want to refer to a doctrine I have with me from a good party trap, which has otherwise also been a magnificent representative. His name is Ottar Kaldhol and is from Ulstein Municipality in More and Romesdal. He says, "Politics is about people, and only about people." We must never forget that when we deal with issues that have major consequences for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2264	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for putting an important topic on the agenda and also for a good article. We've all seen the things that have been in the media over and over again, and many have also met more parents with disabled children who are facing major economic challenges. In addition, after what I have registered at least, there have been some negative attitudes towards those who choose to bring forth children who are seriously ill or have disabilities. In the opinion of me and the Christian People's Party, it's going to be turning the debate upside down. That's why I want to start my post by making a statement that I think is crucial, and that's important to clarify over and over again. It's that all people have equal value and an equally unique self-value. For the Christian People's Party, the fight against a sorting society both before birth and after birth has always been important. Therefore, we need good arrangements that can help parents to take good care of their children. Children with disabilities, or who are seriously ill, and their families, must be allowed to live as everyone else wants. The Christian People's Party wants a diverse society where we have room for everyone. Then there is also a great responsibility for us as a society to offer enough help and support to the parents who have children with disabilities or in other ways require a little extra. This is a topic that we have discussed up to several times. As the representative Graham referred to in his statement, in 2010 there was a joint proposal for a representative for care allowance. I think she said it very well, and I also think the debate shows it very well: the big thing's intentions behind the scheme are not being followed. That is why I would like to stress once again, as many others have been concerned about, that the Kaasa Committee, which I will come back to a little later, has a deadline of 15 August, to which the Council pointed out, but there are many people – many children and their families – who need help now. ME sick children no longer receive care allowance. We have the Brainbarna Norway, which others have pointed out. The challenge is not just how the scheme will be in the future, the challenge is all those who are struggling right now. It's really just that the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour sit down and grab a grip and ensure security for these families. Once again, on the part of the Christian People's Party, I would urge the ministers to do that. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Kaasa Committee wants to strengthen the family's rights where there are children with severe lasting suffering and relatives with particularly demanding care tasks. It shows a clear signal that this group is important to us as a society, and that's a good signal. It is therefore necessary to provide better information on what it means to have children in need of special organisation and on what public offers are available. The Christian People's Party also considers it gratifying that the Kaasa Committee should clarify the child's relationship with the parents, and that this is the reason why they want good arrangements for them. Children need safe surroundings, and parents know their children’s needs best. It is therefore important that the arrangements be arranged for each family. Nevertheless, they will cut grants for those who receive a low cash benefit as of the current date. The Christian People's Party believes that there is no such thing as prioritising within the group. The extension of the scheme for parts of the group cannot be at the expense of others who also need help. It would have been interesting to hear what the government intends to do to ensure that that part of the group does not lose its performance. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly addressed its own proposal for a representative on the situation of disabled people and their relatives by dealing with different bodies. I see that the time is running fast, so I can only refer to the proposal that lies there, and would like to mention also the BPA scheme, which is an important scheme in the case of families with disabled children, and that this can be planned early to ensure the best possible run further. In the last half minute I want to take up another matter. This applies to working parents who need a slightly larger child to be able to use the SFO. In 2007, a majority of the Health and Welfare Committee asked – the government parties also participated – ‘The government comes back to the Storting with proposals for solutions to ensure a satisfactory school holiday offer for children with disabilities throughout the course of education’. [[...]] As far as I can see, it has not been followed up. I have received a few enquiries recently concerning this matter, and encourage the Council of State to take a closer look at that particular field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2288	The issue of interpellation is important, because we need to find good solutions to the challenges these families face. The configuration of the Kaasa Committee, which is now being consulted, points to some solutions, and in the hearings one may come up with more. Graham was in the midst of moments that she thought could prevent good and loving parental care for the children, and pointed to equality and participation as the opposite. In my view, it's the opposite. Care goods and burdens shall be distributed in an equivalent way, and neither women nor men with care tasks shall be isolated from everyday life, work, leisure and social activities. Everything is interconnected, and for the Workers' Party, this is an important basis for society's ability to create value and sustainability and the ability to maintain welfare systems in the future. It is a policy that has freed us from the scourge of private care, where women for generations were locked to unpaid work at home. Parental leave, equality, sick pay and the right to be at home with burdensome care tasks are such policies in practice. There are political differences here. In my view, the politics of the Right Party and the Progressive Party are more fragmented. Graham was also on the other side of his post, that you should be clear. I can agree with that. Then she pointed to relationships that could be perceived as opposites to roughness and to the child's needs. Gender equality and participation were issues that she drew up. Are these the opposites? Not in my head. Nevertheless, the Right will cut the sick pay schemes, for example, even if, as Graham pointed out, increased morbidity is one of the results for family members who have severe and severe suffering in their midst. The Government wants families in need of community support to meet with comprehensive, fair and predictable solutions that last year. We don't want to label anything here and anything there. The challenges must be seen in a broader context, in the long term, including for these children and their families. Changes in treatment, technology and medical development require better coordination and reassessment. Today's rules don't work well enough, and therefore they must be renewed – not piecefully and divided, but completely. The time aspect has been addressed, and I agree that it has taken a long time. It is a long time for parents to struggle in everyday life between being good caregivers and having a stressful and demanding everyday life. It's a long way to go, too. In the meantime, I expect the management of health services, municipalities and Nav to cooperate well with these families, and to take seriously the increased burden that these families have on their everyday lives. They should and must, in my view, use all the resources to prevent families from becoming caste balls, and that proceedings take a long time. I am sure that the proposals that are being consulted and the proposals that come to the hearing will form the basis for comprehensive responses to the challenges that Graham addresses in the interview. It is important policies, also in view of the factors at stake in Toppe’s intervention, namely the importance of relatives and not least the need to include their experiences and views in the evaluation of the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2308	I would first like to thank the Council of State for her reply and the co-representatives for their commitment to the matter. I am pleased that this is a problem which has been raised on the agenda with this selection work, and I am pleased with the impatience expressed here today. I agree that it may be difficult to debate a matter that is being discussed, but this matter cannot rest. I would like to remind you that I pointed to a lot of things that could look good in the Kaasa Committee setting, for example. related support, but also that I put some question marks. Among other things, I said that equality is important, but then it has to be with freedom of choice. The opposition has soon asked for changes in the rules on care and care, including: through several representative proposals in the previous period and now, and during this period, an overall opposition has asked the government to open the way for parents with chronically ill children to receive care allowance. Yes, I have seen increasing impatience after the work of which the Kaasa Committee is part, and first the release from the sample was postponed, and then it took its time before the selection setting was sent out to the hearing. It actually took five months from the department's cancellation and until it was sent out to the hearing, and then I had in the meantime jerked off to send written questions and ask for this. So I hope the Council of State will give priority to this work in the time to come. In any case, the Kaasa Committee is a good start, and I look forward to the results of the hearing when it is concluded. The central point, in my opinion, is to find a solution that we can all gather about, and then the word "pureness" becomes important when it is set up against the system. Because there's something these kids and their parents need, it's roughness and predictability. That's why, when that time comes, we have an obligation to sit down together and find a model that both position and opposition can live with. That's what I'm saying even if a role change could have happened before we get there, because we can't have a scheme that changes every four years. For each family, this is not about investigations or interviews or case numbers, it's about everyday life here and now. It is about the fight for correct diagnosis, the fight for the various social welfare schemes and the fight for attention from case handlers – yes, not all municipalities have coordinators. It's about a fight if you have to rebuild the house of the disabled, it's about the fight to meet the needs of the mariners or to satisfy the check-ups of the county doctors, it's about fighting forms, not talking about fighting to get the hours of the day to jump. These children deserve better – quickly. Once again, I would like to thank you for the debate and express a strong hope and expectation to the government that this work will be given a very high priority in the coming period. I encourage a great deal of liberalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2323	It is clear that the media examples of families falling outside the schemes impress everyone. That these families have a difficult everyday life, it's not very hard to understand – I think everyone who's been up here has expressed that. I very much agree with Graham's representative that we should show both generosity and a great deal of satisfaction in terms of the different needs. It is also the case that I would have been very worried if we had no arrangements in Norway, but we have a lot of arrangements like that. So I'm not saying that it necessarily helps the families who struggle in their everyday lives, but so we have a lot of arrangements at the municipal level to be able to care for families that need it. One of the most important things proposed by the Kaasa Committee is precisely the extended care scheme, which is not limited in time in relation to a state of illness, it is the new care allowance, and of course it is also the care provider’s issue, the need to be able to obtain support, guidance and relief as responsible for care, and the need for greater cooperation between the municipality. Because it's probably like a lot of people who care, do it in a very lonely way, and at least it's not always for the best of the child. So I believe that those who need care, those who come in a situation where they need care, they must, of course, get it in our society. And those who provide care should also know that society sets up for them the day they need it. I've noticed the commitment of the Progress Party and of everyone else who's been up here. I just want to say that, as far as indicative rates are concerned, national rates are the basis of the Kaasa Committee's proposal, i.e. national rates. Then it will depend on the individual, as the proposal is available, how much of this is. care allowance – the extended care scheme – you will enter, as a family, and combine with professional activity, if you want. As Kari Henriksen said at the end, it must always be stressed that the experiences and needs of the family must be taken into account. Then there was a question of when we could file a case for Stortinget. I have no interest in this taking longer than it has to, but we have to have some time to go through these hearings, when they come, and conclude on proposals. But I have to say that based on what I hear here, I don't see that it should be so very difficult to agree on measures. I think everyone agrees that we need a simplification of the legislation, and a regulation that can be handled more equally across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2338	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2344	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2367	During the debate, 27 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 8-11, by Mr Törgeir Tåldal, on behalf of the Progressive Party, proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right-wing Proposals No. 14-18, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 19-23, by Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left proposal No. 24-26, by Per Olaf Lundt own proposal No. 27, from Arne L. The pile on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1–18 is included on pages 62 and 63 of the vote, while proposals Nos. 19-27 is distributed in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24–26, from Per Olaf Lundtigen. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work to increase the degree of maritime supply of food from Norwegian agriculture.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work to ensure that Norway, under the current WTO agreement, applies on a case-by-case basis the rate of duty which gives the highest amount of customs duties on imports of agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an economic policy to ensure that the income gap between agricultural work and other groups is narrowed. This will make it attractive for young people to train and enter the full-time or part-time profession.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2419	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19, 21 and 22, from the left. Proposal No. 19 reads: «The Government is asked to review the entire Agricultural Contracting Institute with the intention of simplifying negotiations to deal exclusively with grant schemes which have a direct impact on farmers’ income potential.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is actively asked to contribute to a future WTO agreement, inter alia: through clear concessions in respect of the elimination of all export subsidies.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a guided closure of fur farming in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2447	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17 from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a strategy for increased meat production from roughage-based livestock.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a grain strategy to ensure increased cereal production and increase in cereal area.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2469	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14, 15 and 18, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to enable farmers, as self-employed persons, to significantly reduce the differences in the text of other groups.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a tax-advanced fund provision scheme based on the pattern of the forest fund.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a legal basis for the protection of cultivated soil in the Land Law, which allows the King to grant valuable soil resources status as a soil protection area.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2498	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the right. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the prohibition of sharing in the Land Act and to wind up the general housing obligation on agricultural properties.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to amend the law of nobility so as to shorten alert periods and restrict the circle of nobility to the siblings of the current owner, but that the rights of surviving spouses with nobility in common with the surviving spouse are protected against nobility.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2520	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 11 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to abolish the obligation to live and operate agricultural and forestry property.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government to propose the repeal of the agricultural agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2542	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the Norwegian export subsidies for cheese production through the turnover tax applicable from 1 July 2012.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2559	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to promote the necessary changes to the alcohol law that permit the sale of demonstration goods and services by visiting production premises or related to them of locally produced alcohol.’ Here both the Progress Party and, now the Right, have said that they support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2576	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 10 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to abolish the prohibition of division in the Law of the Land.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to repeal the Odel Act.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2601	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the government budget for 2013 to propose that realisable gains on agricultural enterprises are not taxed as income on persons but only as general income.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for the abolition of price regulation in agricultural properties.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2624	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 4 and proposal No. 7 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of all aspects of the agricultural agreement, both agro-economic and socio-economic.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to enter into negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of market regulation mechanisms to see whether they are working well enough for all actors in the value chain, as well as for proposals for changes that take particular account of consumers and for equal competition between operators in the industry.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size of the budget requires the government to implement the necessary changes to the tax rules in order to allow direct expenditure on grubbing-up of existing land.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to facilitate the conversion of forests into the form of a limited liability company.» The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2664	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size suggests that agriculture and the Norwegian food industry are to be ensured predictability by providing the main pillars of the Norwegian agricultural model as the basis for Norwegian agricultural policy. This means that the government, through various arrangements, shall ensure a high level of import protection, maintain the agricultural agreement between the country and the industry and continue the role of the cooperative in the management of the market organisations.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2693	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2873	Documents will be provided here at the representatives’ table to propose that this matter be sent to the Business Committee. After consulting both the Business Committee and the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred instead to the Energy and Environment Committee. No one votes against the president's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-12.ana.ud1520e2920	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
